ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u18993	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their cards into the parliamentary units. I figure we have a quorum and we can keep working. I would like to inform you that they have reported the absence of the following MPs: Vasilije Pavicevic, Stevan Lilic, Dragan Jocic, Branko Ružić, Pal Shandor, Nenad Lemajic, Alen Selimović, Petar Misic, Višnja Nežić, Miroslav Markicevic, Kermeci Karolj and Ratimir Svirčević, Miodrag Stamenkovic (afternoon), and Branislav Grubački announced a delay. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend: the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. Also, according to members 83 and 84. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I invited representatives of the People's Movement "Resistance" and representatives of the Association of Families of Kidnapped and Missing Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija to this session. We move to the 6th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and PURPOSE OF THE CRIME LAW OF THE REPUBLIC OF SREBIA (principle debate) According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Branislav Blažić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u18994	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure that took place yesterday and I'm calling for article 97. There has obviously been a serious violation of the fundamental rights of the MPs. This is about taking Mr Dragoljub Stamenkovic's words away. The ex post check from the stenographic notes made it clear (and I will read what was happening specifically) that Mrs. Comic, who was then chairman, violated Article 97 roughly. Dragoljub Stamenkovic said: "... for life and how dangerous physical injuries and, to remind you, Ljubomir Jovanovic Glass is the man who shot and badly wounded Peter Panic. Chairman: Mr Stamenkovic, I give you your first warning. Dragoljub Stamenkovic: It is no joke to fire eight bullets in a man, but in Serbia it is better to judge the surgeon who took the bullets... The chairman - again enters the word and says - Mr Stamenkovic, the strategy of your parliamentary group by speaking such words at the speaker shows that you are not aware that what you are doing is a hate speech, it is unacceptable in this National Assembly. Dragoljub Stamenkovic:... And Peter Panic saved his life, but to judge his cousin, Chedomir... Chairman: You have a second warning and a taken word. "Here's the key moment. The data is a second reminder and a word in one sentence has been taken away; literally it is not allowed for the apostle to receive another warning, so if he continues with something, which, in the chairman's view, something from Article 103, which may be given a reminder and taken away, only then, after the second warning, the apostle will be taken away from him. So it's a very clear thing, that the Rules of Procedure has been broken, that the chairman was quite nervous and had no nerve to wait and see if Mr. Stamenkovic, in her opinion, would continue to violate the Rules of Procedure, so that, using his right to the chairman, he would take away the word of the MP. I think it's obviously a harsh violation of the Rules of Procedure -- taking away the right of the People's MP to speak, especially when she was calling for a hate speech in all of this, and it's obviously from this text that I read that there was no word of hate, that it was merely a reference to criminal acts that were happening, which apparently the authorities for these or those reasons did not respond to.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u18995	I don't think there's any damage to the Rules of Procedure. The chairman, Gordana Comic, made two warnings and then took the floor away from MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement about it? Yeah. I'm putting on a vote to comment that a breach of the Rules of Procedure has been committed. For 20, against 78, the two abstentions, did not vote 59, out of 159 MPs. The National Assembly has ruled that no violation of the Rules of Procedure by MP Branislav Blazic has been committed. We're moving on to a principle debate according to the application for word. Milorad Mircic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. ( b) How do you handle the Rules of Procedure now? If you have any suggestions, you are not a representative of the parliamentary group. You're all, you're 23. Unbelievable. Milorad Mircic, from the scene: I have the right to advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure. ) If you have a proposal, you can contact as a MP. Otherwise, as a MP, you can only make a suggestion, you cannot advertise an injury. So if Dragoljub Stamenkovic is taken away from his word, then the representative will be Milorad Mircic's MP. Here you go. So today you're a representative. (Gordana Pop-Lazic, from the place: Not today, but until you take away his word.) ) Yes, until we take away the word of MP Milorad Mircic, he will be the representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u18996	You already plan to take away the word in advance; I guess I represent the parliamentary group while I'm in the O.R., when I'm not in the O.R., when I'm not there, then the next one from the list that's attached. What I'm advertising is a violation of Article 111. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the Assembly, which refers to the following: that the minutes to be conducted in the Assembly include the entry into it and the accompanying discussion. The information we have at our disposal is correct - the discussions in the minutes of yesterday's session are not in place, Madam Chairman. So you hurt the Rules of Procedure. And the report should contain the accompanying discussion of Serbian radicals, where another part is missing, which is: "In gratitude for protecting his cousin Ljubomir Jovanovic the Glass, the Surcin mafia gave Cedomimir Jovanovic a race horse. What only Stanko Sobotić Cane gave Cedomir Jovanovic to protect him from court and law. "
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u18997	Mr. Mircic, you've reached out to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u18998	I'm just quoting what's supposed to be in the record. "Stanko Subotic Cane organised the murder of police General Radovan Stojcic Badge. "
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u18999	You have no right, these are not remarks to the record. Mr. Mircic, this is a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19000	It was just about to get into the record.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19001	It will enter the record, Mr. Mircic...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19002	... "Let's end it, brothers, all the laws, because we have our Chad. Cedomir Jovanovic is the paradigm of the DOS-Mali legal order. Lived Ceda Jovanovic" -- only this should have been entered into the record -- "alpha and omega of the DOS' understanding of freedom and democracy. "So, follow the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19003	The attached discussions will enter the minutes, have been submitted to the secretary, will enter the minutes. Let the discussion be prepared by National MP Natasa Jovanovic, who was also deprived of the word, if she wants to enter the minutes. I now give my word to MP Dragoljub Vojnovic, and after him is MP Dragan Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19004	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament (Here and Minister - Mr. Minister, I welcome you as well), if I may finally speak, after the fifth announcement, I have finally come to say what I think I should say. It may be a little strange that, in view of my profession, I have signed up to speak in principle about the draft law on amendments and additions to the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia. But from my point of view, I have some things to explain, even though it's not the place for me to elaborate, which is -- a man otherwise formulates his behavior with an instinctive physiological definition and what we call rewards and penalties. What rewards are, I don't want to talk about it, and what punishments are, it means bans, both in school, in religion and in the state apparatus. We debated today, and yesterday we debated the punishments for the wrongs which we define, both the size and the kind of punishment that should be determined. First of all, I'd like to say something about a basic reward or punishment, which is a death decision. Many praises were given yesterday, that the essence of this law is the abolition of the death penalty. Our people say - man is not condemned to death, man is condemned to life. Under this means carrying your own life cross as a less or more difficult life. So, from my point of view, that's what is meant to end the death penalty, and I don't think that should give any particular attention. What I'd like to keep here is that the bill also introduces some new provisions as criminal acts in the domain of my profession and activity that I've been dealing with for more than 40 years. This is the area of health care and I have interpreted it as an attempt to regulate this area by criminal law more than it has ever been regulated. However, I must immediately say that there are extraordinary dangers if, as Mr. Mamula has said, a layman's approach to writing this law, if it is inapplicable because of this layman's approach or if it is inapplicable, we will have a large number of problems, because health is one of the most sensitive social activities both from the social and from the human rights aspects and from ethical aspects. First of all, what I agree with in law. The new definition is the crime of drug trafficking, although it can be said that there is a tradition of drug abuse in Serbia. Let us remember our country's progeny - Kodja Milos is treated by the natrilicars, not by the people's otters, not by the educated. Yet I believe this provision should be in this law. However, it seems to me that the accent has been placed on health corruption. What Mr. Kurjački said now seems to be trying to sort out this corruption, as modernly said, to be located in the domain of health care, education. In health care, she probably exists, but not as much as she's spoken of. I'll give the evidence. It is pointed out in a way that is pre-named and is spoken of by one member of the law, Article 126, one, I would say strange (I would not say one sharp word - senseless) way, and that is unnecessary treatment. I've been a doctor for almost 40 years, living in a medical family, and they're all my doctors. We say very often - you don't need medication for this disease, because it will pass in itself. I know the expression -- unconscious treatment; it's sanctioned, but -- unnecessary treatment -- I've never heard of it before, and I can explain it. I don't know, I'd ask Mr. Secretary why in sanctioning the abuse of the position where the money was spent he didn't write - unnecessary spending of money? It is obvious that corruption has been tried here in a very ignorant way to prove itself, to show that we are creating instruments to fight this corruption. Another thing I would like to point out, and on this case, I am asking the Minister to define things clearly, appropriately in an unlatical sense of the law, because confusion and consequences will be disastrous for both the judge and the judge; this is about the ethical problems that the law causes, which I would illustrate to Article 122a. It reads - who, knowing that it is highly contagious by disease, is infected with another person's disease who did not know or could not know about his illness, will be punished by prison for almost five years. I asked Mr. Secretary what a particularly dangerous disease this is, I hope it's not an anthrax. My guess is it's a monster of this time -- AIDS or AIDS, as they say. However, I must say, gentlemen, although it is not time for me to give a medical lecture here, and it is not my closest area -- my colleagues have shown that a number of HIV infected, especially women, and after eight years do not show signs of disease. It's regulated in one ethical way. Only one doctor knows about HIV infection. Family warning, husband warning, patient warning. If he works in health care, he'll have to wear double gangages in the injury, gloves, otherwise he'll lose his job. There's one fact I need to explain to you. The percentage and possibility of HIV infection is comparable to that of extracts or secretions. Women aren't capable of infecting anyone. If that ethical moment is ignored and someone finds out that someone is sick and unable to pass on to him, he can end up on a five-year sentence without talking about the one who has signs of illness - he's not for prison, he's for forced treatment, because he won't live for long, from two to three years. Why did I say this? I said because it is necessary to define clearly what the provisions set out in this law are, I am speaking from the aspect of my profession, and they need to be improved. This is where many amendments of the Democratic Party of Serbia, to which I belong, were submitted, and I think I was clear on why they should be accepted. Anyone who doesn't understand can come by and explain it to him in private.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19005	The word is made by the MP Dragan Tomic, followed by Natasa Milojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19006	Dear Members of the People's Parliament, as our leader Zoran Nikolic said, the Socialist Party's parliamentary group would not support this proposal to amend and supplement the Criminal Law, because we don't think this is enough changes, that it should have gone through a complete revision of criminal legislation at the federal level. Since a number of works have been counted here in various areas, which have been created as a novelty of this time, we think that the serious and rooted changes in the tax system, the Law on Control and Payment of Public Revenue, the Law on Banking and Liquidation and the Law on Personal Labour, which are otherwise federal regulations, would significantly improve the situation and prevent the existence of various types of criminal acts, which are listed here. When you have in one area such as the application of tax laws of various sources of corruption, which appears in various types of performance (which is mentioned in health, education, corruption in the state authorities, in the judiciary, and all areas of social life are numbered), all of this is regulated by tax regulations, by making citizens submit tax returns for each job they perform and pay taxes per rate prescribed under the law. We have a situation today, because of the unregulated situation in the tax area, that there are numerous gaps, shortcomings and phenomena that occurred primarily because of the state's inability to seriously finance certain areas, and here above all I think about education, health, justice and the function of the state administration, especially the control function of the state administration. In this period, for the last five or six months, we've had one six or seven commissions to deal with so-called. strategic issues in these areas, primarily in the fight against corruption and bribes, against morality or immorality, etc. So, on a variety of issues, we didn't get a way to end it. It is interrupted by tax policy and the only way is tax policy and control with one authority. You have seven control functions in the area in front of the state today; if we take the functions of the judiciary, that's nine functions already. Therefore, since there is no serious co-operation in this (although there is a story that there is co-operation, I think there is no, especially in the organs of this control), it is simply impossible then to achieve the right function. When I talk about an act of violence against a member of another people, an ethnic group or a religious community, I simply get the impression that this member is specific to the Serb people. It is simply amazing that at this point we have such a tendency, although it is known that in the past 10 years there has been no ethnic violence in Serbia by members of the Serbian people of no national minority or other religious group, that here we get one member who leads me to this fact that we simply warn people to keep their behaviors in check. Belgrade is a multiconfessional city with members of various peoples and peoples and has never been awarded such a type of violence. It has always stood before citizens to identify how they will live with their neighbours and Belgrade is a characteristic example of this, and I can say the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina anyway. We have witnessed the last 10 years of constant violence, from murders to emigration, threats and blackmail, and today we have three municipalities down in southern Serbia, Bujanovac, Presevo and Medvedju, where Serbs are mass evicted from. How do you stop it? It's one of the forms of violence. Have we applied any state measures to prevent these forms of violence against Serbian peoples in that area? We didn't, even though we talked about it from this pay phone on many occasions and tried to say something. To get back to this corruption story. It will exist in every society and exist. It's not a Serb society specific as a category. The only question is, how do we fight it? We cannot fight with appeals, but with clear state control, and control can be created by raising state authorities, which deal primarily with tax legislation, to the highest possible European level. Europe is decorated, by the one you're talking about, by the supervisory authorities of a service called the financial police. There are no seven or eight parallel organs, with all the powers, in application of the regulations. The most significant authorities are the Republic, i.e. the income administrations with clear and fundamental tasks at the collection of tax obligations and compliance with tax regulations. That's why we need real tax taxation. It will only stop significant stories of corruption and make citizens pay their dues. It's not a problem for the state if someone has to pay 200 dinars or 2,000 dinars of taxes, the problem is the one who has to pay 200 million. There are sources and there are recorded stories. Don't talk about fighting corruption anymore. Talk about fighting the gray economy, because then you'll find yourself in the field of a strong Serbian state. In any other way, this is just mixing the thesis and no realisation in the interests of citizens and the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19007	I thank the People's MP. The People's Messenger Natasa Milojevic has the word, followed by Milos Lukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19008	Ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, Mrs Micic, dear guests from the Resistance, representatives of the government are currently absent, we are talking about a proposal to amend and supplement the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia. I hope that we will hear from each other as we talk about the visions and suggestions of those I represent in this assembly, and those parliamentary groups that I belong to in this assembly, the parliamentary group of the Democratic Opposition of Serbia. By listening to the comments and statements on the basic text of the law and on amendments and additions, I cannot help but feel that this is a crucial moment between archaic and new; I cannot help but feel that many are not yet ready or aware of their essence; I cannot help but think that the conservative text and content of the KZ, as they call it, must finally be overcome and thrown out of use. The proposal to amend and supplement the Criminal Law contains a lot of things, but does not contain one of the basics. It is an inventory and, of course, the law cannot, but it falls into the eyes that the inventory of the crimes that were committed by the exponents of the former regime by October 2000 is so enormous and so significant that no current or future text of the Criminal Law will be able to see all these crimes. Just remember how one of the basic human rights is threatened - the electoral right. Just remember how officials abused their positions in a number of (thousands) arrests by members of the Resistance and others who opposed the regime. Just remember what an epilogue of electoral theft was. I think it's encouraging that we'll still approach the amendments to the Criminal Code, but I'm not encouraged by the fact that there is no inventory of the former guilt. I hope that the justice system bearers will look at this and at least take a few steps in that direction. What has the amendment and supplementation of the law brought? Which, according to us, is a social democratic approach, is the key thing. The first is the abolition of the death penalty. The second is the threat, or sanctioning human rights threats. The sanctioning of violence against other peoples or other peoples is mentioned. Based on the Law on the Protection of Minorities, adopted in principle in the Federal Assembly, I look forward to being able to talk about punishing violence against members of other nations. We are witnessing a number of acts that talk about this. We are witnessing such acts in all parts of our country, we are witnessing such acts in Vojvodina, which is multinational, in Sandzak and of course in Kosovo. One of the advantages of the text of the amendment proposal and the addition of this law is that sanctions are such that I assume it will act preventively, not stimulatingly. What this proposal also treats, perhaps not in a satisfactory way and hence, I hope that by adopting the amendment, the basic text of the proposal will be corrected and improved, refers to sexual abuse and domestic violence. Both topics have been treated in public, but they have never found a space in the legislation, which these topics and those sanctions belong to. We have witnessed numerous incidents of domestic violence (and this assembly dealt with it just seven months ago), the form and form of sexual abuse, but I am not sure that everyone has understood the messages of voting of this July 11th assembly about how to sanction someone who is from the position of service or the official position of someone sexually abused. I'm not sure many will understand, and after adopting this text of the law, but the law is a framework. The law is an obligation. The law is written by people, but the law and apply people. I hope that no one is above the law, but I expect that those who apply it will not be under the law, or below what the law expects of them. I have to break this chatter with an amazing testimony, if I succeed, of course, yesterday published in the daily newspaper: "By bringing judgment to the New Market District Court, the trial of Muzafera Rizvanovic, a woman who was killed by her husband about two months ago, was completed. This desperate act of Muzafer was decided after 17 years of psychological and physical abuse and torture, after beatings, threats and superhuman humiliation. "The epilogue of this story is eight years in prison for Muzafer, and there are three underage children left behind. What resents justice, perhaps unjustly, is a brief court case. What I, as one of the fighters for the protection of women's human rights, resent is an unfair and unfair trial. I think the least we owe the Muzaffers and the like is a fair trial. Mr. Batic is not here right now, but he probably hears that I urge Muzafera's trial to happen again. I don't abuse this pay phone. I speak only to the articles, i.e. the members of the Bill on Family Violence, and I deeply support the proposals made by my colleagues Leila Trifunovic and Stevan Lilić, the amendments concerning this issue. But to go back to the subject of sexual abuse and remind you that the reaction to these events is always the same as sexist. No one has ever admitted to themselves whether sexual abuse is something that is just violence against a woman's sex or both. Neither this bill nor the amendments sanction or treat this problem from the same point of view. I hope that in the third millennium, we will mature, grow up, and see that sexual abuse can be anyone, regardless of gender, and, unfortunately, regardless of age. The amendments to the Social Democracy that treat this topic, as well as other topics relating to the coercion to full disclosure, concern the future. Perhaps right now, at this point, there is still not enough level of social awareness that sexual abuse is one of the greatest or most significant forms of criminal activity today. I won't strangle you with statistics, because statistics, those who don't understand, don't say anything. I'll just tell you that the victims are in different ways, at work, in the family in particular, huge and numerous. There are appeals in the world of a number of NGOs, and unfortunately there are few, but above all brave NGOs, that the right to protection against sexual abuse and the law is foreseen. Only this effort has made us as MPs to carry out this kind of appeal in the text of the amendment and, hopefully, to the final text of the law. Yesterday someone said they're counting on a new justice system and new judges in our new system. I don't see criminal law as just a legal value or legal regulation of the state, I see it as a reflection of social and moral values or, hopefully, a new established moral principle in our society. And speaking of moral principles, I will be forgiven by those whose ignorance may not reach this far, but I will introduce them to the moral principles outlined in the fifth and early fourth centuries before the new era. He says, "I'm not looking for anything special, I'm just, as I've always told you, I want you, staring at yourself, it's a service that you must always do to me, as my service has been done to you." - Socrates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19009	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Milos Lukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19010	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, the distinguished guests, when it comes to amendments and additions to the Criminal Law, one impression is that we have a certain contradiction in the very reason for the adoption of this law. This argument consists of the fact that, at present, there is a lack of strong criminal policy in our country. We, as a party to the Soviet Union, welcome all those steps leading to the tightening of criminal policy, the closer the criminal acts are to be determined and the sanctions for them are to be exacted. What this contradiction consists of -- it consists primarily of us having the elimination of the death penalty, and that is about the greatest mitigation that is covered by this law. There are many reasons why we believe that the abolition of the death penalty is premature in this society and in this country, which is in one post-war period, where part of the territory is still under occupation, when many relationships are not regulated and we have many forms of crime, and especially that general, which is threatened by the most fundamental human rights -- the right to life, then many acts that seem to be of benefit. Maybe in some future period, maybe when we have economic, social and other conditions, we get these punisheds. For citizens, the debate on this law has particularly drawn attention in the work concerning the protection of minors. However, these changes have only added the kidnapping of a minor, and it has been processed, but we have come to the conclusion that special attention should be paid to protecting minors from intoxicating drugs. Every day in the press, we read reports that accurately tell about the percentages of students in high school, and more and more in primary schools, who are drug users. These percentages are astounding and anyone who thinks about the future of our youth and our children should seriously consider it. In that part, sanctions must be strengthened. The issue of suppressing the crime of corruption is also, in our opinion, groundless; I think there is only an additional confusion in sharing corruption in various areas. One issue is particularly imposed, and this is a question of injury to the reputation of the Republic of Serbia. We have here a mitigation of sanctions that we have had so far, and if we add an increase of sanctions against members of other nationalities, it seems to me that through the amendments of this law one thread stretches, that Serbia and the expression - Serbia needs something less and less to mean something, and that only the Republic will remain protected as such; its authorities will be available to everyone, to insult them and to inflict certain insults on this country in this way. Another area that is not directly covered by these amendments and the additions to the laws, it is a matter of a large number of regulations, which we have previously pointed out, to which criminal acts have been arranged; these are the Law on Arms and Ammunition, the Law on Construction, etc. We believe that all crimes should be codified in Criminal Law, for the simple reason that this will be done by those who apply the rules, which are judges, and it will be more serious and in the very application of these regulations, much more will be taken into account when they are in Criminal Law than this. We have a lot of examples of it, but time doesn't allow, so we can do something else about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19011	Thank you. The People's MP Srdjan Sikimic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19012	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is no doubt to me that the abolition of the death penalty and the emergence of new forms of deviant behavior necessarily forced the need to change the existing Criminal Law. In accordance with such circumstances, this text of the Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia has also been drawn up. All changes, if we analyze them, move either from the alignment with the emerging situation, or in the part relating to the establishment of new criminal acts or new forms of existing crimes. Of course, this was also an opportunity to include experienced norms in the law, in the part relating to the prescribed sanctions in the existing law, and to include experienced norms, which have been published in practice, in this bill, with one basic objective - to create real grounds for a uniform criminal policy in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. If we accept that these are the frameworks in which the new bill is moving, in the part of the amendments and additions, then I think, no doubt, that law must get our support in principle. I would disagree with some of the predecessors, who have made a point that the law is not good. The absence of individual solutions regarding the absence of some phenomena, which we have already called new crimes, such as So-called computer works and things like that, they're not the basis for criticizing this text. They are the basis for our principle debate, which, in my view, should point to certain phenomena and record and locate certain phenomena from such an aspect that they cause a certain legislative intervention in that segment that we have located as problematic. That, in my opinion, is the purpose of a principled debate. Unfortunately, our procedure is prescribed by the Rules of Procedure, in that part it is scarce and makes it impossible for us to record what we in principle have recorded as a problem, at the same time installing the text of the law, but it makes us do so in some re-proceeded procedure, through the re-change of one of the legal projects. It is up to us now, at this time only possible is what the Rules of Procedure allows us, through the whole palette, by me, by quality amendments, by selecting the highest quality, to improve the offered text. I think, in any case, if we give support in principle, we must agree with the fact that certain provisions and individual solutions suffer criticism. Not saying I'm talking about professional analysis here, I think there's a need to point to individual solutions that would deserve your attention. There has been a lot of talk here about Article 5, which provides for the introduction of a new member, a new criminal act, with a member of 60a, which is violence against a member of another people, an ethnic group or a religious community. I am for establishing a crime like this, but I'm not for the text that's been offered. The text that has been offered opens up the possibility of various abuses of all participants in criminal proceedings, for the following reasons: in attitude 1. he foresees the possibility of failure, and in attitude 2 speaks of imagination which is not directed to members of another people, religious community or ethnic group, but rather the imagination is directed at inflicting serious physical harm etc. Such a formulation is, in my opinion, inadmissible, because belonging to another people, to an ethnic group or to a religious community cannot be an essential element of one crime, but can only be an element of the wine blamed in this process. In particular, it should be borne in mind that, if such a formulation of the legal text remains, in multinational environments, it is especially necessary to take account of the territory of Vojvodina, where there are more than 28 different peoples and peoples, there will be abuse. These abuses will, in a procedural sense, cause, in practice, the increase of these crimes. We are at the border, given this formulation, that many of the actions that we qualify as violations at the moment qualify as criminal offences with very difficult sanctions. The next act is in Article 32, which bears the title - not giving up support. This is about a termological inconsistencies with existing regulations. There is no action not to support it. According to Article 310a of the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, maintenance can only be judged in money, in any other way. This further means that this work should bear the title - non-payment of maintenance. Furthermore, the element on which criminal liability is determined is that the maintenance obligation is established by an executive court decision or by an executive settlement; since they have one single name, which is (in accordance with Article 16. The Implementing Procedure Act) is an executive document, it is unnecessary to use something that we have a synonym expression in positive law. Furthermore, the text should exclude the part relating to the determination of the maintenance obligation by another competent authority. Simply, in our positive right, there is no other competent authority that can establish a maintenance obligation for any person. Article 62 refers to Article 216 of the existing law, which is a new formulation of the existing criminal act. However, this formulation opens the possibility of becoming a means of repression in relation to both constitutional and internationally recognised principles of human and citizen freedom to criticise authorities. In this formulation, we will be able to prevent any, so to speak, constructive or serious benevolent criticism of the authorities and deny one of the basic principles that is present in all human rights conventions. The next thing I'd like to point out is a 64th member who's talking about a new form of Article 218 that bears the name - spreading false news. And this formulation, in practice, leads to the possibility of reintroducing a measure of opinion into our legal system, only in something different form than what we had. For what? It says here: "Who by carrying out or passing false news or fortifying challenges the disturbance of citizens... "and so on. The term "fortifications" means attitudes, evaluations and understandings of a certain phenomenon, not merely the expression of a factual state. If we treat someone's thinking as a criminal act, then we'll be in a situation where it's a whole new form of participatory thinking, which is absolutely inadmissible. We threw something like that out in our legal practice. As far as Article 79's provision is concerned, there's been a lot of talk about it here. This is the provision of Article 255 which regulates minor punishment and is also related to Article 3(3) of this Act. I don't think this provision is a place in this law. I welcome the idea that for these forms, as stated in the law, minor punishment should be provided, but this would be the matter of federal legislation, for the simple reason that, in Article 25 of the Federal Criminal Code, it is regulated that all forms of complicity, or persons of any form of complicity, may be slightly punished in a situation where they prevent the execution of a criminal offence. We only have a different store here, and that's who finds out. I just think it should be located in that law. As for the group of corruption crimes, we can discuss various formulations of the proposed text. At this point, I wouldn't do that. I'd leave it to the professional public and practice. We should welcome the idea that what we've located as a problem is finally sanctioned. What needs to be pointed out here, and I think there's room to correct it through the amendments, is the difference in the intended penalties, which, in any case, needs to be evened out, because I don't see a serious basis for different approaches. In particular, it should be pointed out that there is a difference in punishment for the attempt, for, practically, one and the same work in different variants, depending on the participants of the procedure. Finally, I would take the opportunity to point to the last member, or the text of an amendment that is present. I don't know exactly whose it is. The amendment seeks to resolve, through transitional and final provisions, the question of the fate of existing judicial verdicts for those sentenced to death. The amendment is a good, legal quality, but it should be pointed out that it should not be the subject of our debate, because again this law does not tolerate that matter. It's the matter of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The amendment essentially, although good, should not be adopted because it would not be in line with the existing legal system. It certainly needs to be accepted as an initiative to be launched in the Federal Assembly to resolve this issue, because there is virtually no mechanism for such a solution at this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19013	I thank the People's MP. The word has a folk MP Milorad Mircic, followed by a National MP, Slobodan Tomovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19014	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I demand that the quorum be checked after my presentation, because it is obvious that what is on the screen does not correspond to the true condition of the parliamentary benches. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS finds it absolutely pointless today that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia discusses amendments and additions to the Criminal Law. Serbia doesn't need criminal law. We don't really need any law, because we have Cedomir Jovanovic. Any time Cedomir Jovanovic and any law apply Cedomir anyway. It's not about Chad's zebra anymore. It's about Chad's street. It's about the most serious crime.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19015	Mr. Mircic, I warn you to return to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19016	This is a forbidden speech and this is clear to everyone. Only this SRS speech cannot be announced from this pay phone, and newspapers can be announced, free estimates and evaluations of other MPs. Killing is forbidden, unless you are cousin of Cedomir Jovanovic...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19017	Mr Mircic, I give you a second warning, based on Articles 103 and 104.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19018	The relatives of Cedomir Jovanovic have the right to kill freely. With his cousins, there's nothing the courts or laws can do about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19019	Mr. Mircic, I'm taking your word and I'm asking you to step away from the pay phone. Milorad Mircic is still talking at the pay phone. Mr. Mircic, you're in violation of the Rules of Procedure right now because you won't step away from the pay phone. I ask the MPs to determine if we have a quorum, since at the beginning of the presentation, it was requested by MP Milorad Mircic. I figure we have a quorum and we can keep working. (Stevan Kesejic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. ( b) How do we apply the Rules of Procedure? As a suggestion? (Stevan Kesejic, from the post: As a representative of the parliamentary group. ) It says here, if I take the word or exclude it from the session of the People's MP Milorad Mircic, then it is replaced by MP Miroljub Veljkovic. He's not here. We won't be calling each other here now, where Miroljub Veljkovic is. When Miroljub Veljkovic comes, let him come and I'll give him my word. (Stevan Kesejic, from the post: I am looking for a word from the Rules of Procedure. ) (Employer Stevan Kesejić stands next to the pay phone and asks for a word. ) The word has the People's MP Zoran Radovanovic, and after him... No, I didn't give you my word. (Stevan Kesejic: I have the right to harm the Rules of Procedure. I didn't give you my word. Where are you going? You don't have a word, I won't give you my word, the word has a National MP, Zoran Radovanovic. According to the Rules of Procedure, when Miroljub Veljkovic comes. Here you go. Please clear the space for MP Zoran Radovanovic to pass. (Employees Stevan Kesejic and Zoran Radovanovic stand by the pay phone. Do you want to talk or not? Here you go. (Stevan Kesejic: Please give me the word in the Rules of Procedure. I don't give you my word. We're done. Here you go. Please step aside and don't flaunt with me, get back to your seat. Here's a word from MP Zoran Radovanovic. (Stevan Kesejić: I want to advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure on behalf of the parliamentary group; I am a representative of the parliamentary group and I have the right. Miroljub Veljkovic is not present at the session and after him I am an authorised representative. I give you a warning because you flaunt with me, and I have not given you my word. First warning. I give the word to Parliamentarian Zoran Radovanovic. (Stevan Kesejic: Please give me the word in the Rules of Procedure. Veljkovic is not present. I am now an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. I ask you to step away, to enable... (Stevan Kesejic: Please give me your word to advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I'm not giving it to you, and it's my right not to give it to you. I'm not giving you my word. I've already given you a warning. (Stevan Kesejic: Veljkovic is not present. I'm an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. I give you a second warning. It's not in your list - if he's not present. I can't play here with you 23: you're all representatives; so if your word is taken away, if you're not in the O.R. Because you're hurting and because I have to, because I'm obliged to respect the Rules of Procedure. People's MP, I'm giving you another warning and I'm asking you to return to your seat. (Stevan Kesejic is still standing next to the pay phone. Because you're breaking up with me. I didn't give you my word, you're throwing it away. I'm taking your word. (Stevan Kesejic: Why are you taking away my word? ) Here you are, the word has a National MP, Zoran Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19020	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister, we have before us today a bill on amendments and additions to the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia. The basis is, above all, in the amendments and additions to Article 3, where the death penalty is replaced by a 40-year sentence. First of all, as a doctor and as a humanist, and propo for the SPS MPs in the federal parliament to vote for such a change, I support this and consider it a alignment with European tendencies, which is correct. In the part of the bill that speaks of violence against a member of another people, an ethnic group or a religious community, as the title itself says - of members of another people, ethnic groups or religious communities. What bothers me, and based on the behaviour of the ruling DOS majority, is that there is no work here that speaks of the protection of rights, first of all, of my Serbian people. On your TV stations since 5 October, we have watched a few dozen science fiction films about Markals, about Račka, where my people are being satanized, where everyone should be afraid of the Serbian people and I ask - when and what law some such provision will be protected by the Serbian people. Otherwise, members of the kidnapping bill on discrimination (i.e. 6, 7 and 8.) They're very interesting. Approximately, these members of the law would be passed when we return to power, immediately, on the first day, because no one has the right to the citizens of Serbia... And you have one citizen of Serbia, formerly President, Mr Milosevic, who is in The Hague, who has been kidnapped, sent to The Hague and is tried. (Thank you, colleague Nikolic - extradited. We will also pass similar laws, with even greater sentences for these crimes. When it comes to the part of the law of harming freedom of movement and housing, we return to this same story. Article 76a, which was added, says: "Whoso unlawfully deny or restricts the citizens of the Republic of Serbia freedom of movement.. "and so on, and all these examples we've seen a lot in the previous days. Part of the bill relating to health care was approximately written as if it had been written by two students. A college law student and a medical student. Why am I saying this? Article 126 discusses unnecessary treatment, 126a -- a doctor who determines an obviously unnecessary treatment in order to obtain any benefit to himself or another -- and so on -- will be sentenced by imprisonment from six months to five years. All Serbian doctors know perfectly well that the patient will ask a thousand times for a further examination to be carried out, will look after the ultrasound - please, Doctor, do me a scanner to see what's wrong with me, and if one of us doesn't, the patient is angry. It is very difficult to distinguish between unnecessary and beneficial. It is also possible that in some parts of the law it should stand, not a doctor, but a leader who has identified an obviously unnecessary way of leading the state in order to obtain any benefit to himself or another. You will have the opportunity to hear about it from other MPs. I think that this government needs more attention to some legal solutions and, above all, activities to increase the salaries of healthcare professionals, and less to deal with the problem of healthcare corruption which, according to this proposal, seems to have so much to do with all doctors being corrupt, and I am responsiblely saying that they are not. Articles 212a and 212b of the bill speak of high treason and unauthorized creation and use of armed formations. Article 212a is about that kind of thing that our low-life kids would say is a mess, a mess. He says -- who tries to use force to change the constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia or overthrow its most state-owned organs... Or, Article 212b, which speaks to the disauthorized formation of formations, and so on, and so on. Your leaders on all televisions in Nis boasted that on October 5th they had so many pipes, so many pipes, they were ready for everything and everything, so what's different than this? But it looks like these kind of bills are done after October 5th. I think since the minister's saying he's okay with it, that's what it was... Article 62 amends Article 216, and this article, which is most interesting, reads: "Who calls on others to resist or disrespect the legal decisions or measures of the state authorities or to disobey the official person in the performance of the official act... "Not to quote it further, I beg you, this member clearly says that all of you, I think of you from the ruling majority, from DOS, are aware of how well you run the state. You're aware of that, and you're afraid that someone isn't inviting the people, and the people are waiting for someone to invite him to the elections, that this power definitely collapses. Thank you. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the place: Replica! )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19021	Right to the replica because he told you - thank you, Mr. Nikolic, was extradited? (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: What he has to say to me thanks, he is from the former government. No offense at all, I can't give you a replica. The word is made by MP Miroljub Veljkovic You have no right to a replica. [[Tomislav Nikolic, from the place: Do I have the right to replica?]] (Tomislav Nikolic, from the place: And why? ( ) Because there is no basis for replication, you have not been injured by article 97 or by your reputation or by something he has brought to you from private life. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the place: How is dignity not injured? ) National MP Miroljub Veljkovic is not present, according to the Rules of Procedure, MP Branislav Blazic, representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19022	Ladies and gentlemen, I am reporting again to advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure; this is now the violation of the Rules of Procedure and of Mr Mircic and Mr Kesajic. I'll explain it to you first, and now we have Mr. Tom Nikolic. This is where the Rules of Procedure is constantly breaking, Madam Chairman. Mr. Kesjejic reported in the Rules of Procedure, not to advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure, but to the Rules of Procedure. You are obliged to give every MP here a word if he reports to the Rules of Procedure. So you have to learn that and it's so clear. And if he goes out for a pay phone and starts talking about hurting the Rules of Procedure, you have the right to take away his word and say that only an authorised representative of the parliamentary group can say that. So it's so clear, and I'm asking you not to do things like that anymore, because this is already a real dictatorship and this is already bordering on dictatorship. Especially when it comes to taking away words from MPs who have the right and in such a way to express some of their revolt or protest against what they consider to be dictatorship, both in the congregation and in society. If they do it that way, they have that right. You have the right again to take away the word, but with one explanation that stands there, and not as it is in Mr. Mircic's case, when you took away his word from him, with an explanation that it offends the dignity of some people or that it is about hate speech. Here the word is quite repeated: hate speech in society, hate speech in the congregation. Gentlemen, the hatred in the assembly broke down after October 5th. With euphoric coming to power, you couldn't hide all of yours, in some way, the passion that broke down, that rematch that was in you; you've burst one hatred and the evil that's now spreading to Serbia. Therefore, the way you express yourself, the threats, the coming in that euphoric state, the desire that you will change everything in such a way as you started, it's not only fuelled hate, but you have to admit that in Serbia and the increase in crime, the increase in kidnapping, the increase in murder, that the increase in everything that is negative, and of the positive emotions or the positive state in society, you've done nothing. Therefore, do not call hate to be something that is due to this, or is the result of this work of parliament, no, especially not coming from the mouth of the MPs of the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19023	Mr. Blazic, I fully agree with you. Infringements of the Rules of Procedure do indeed, but it is done by members of your party, which shows also the records. I did not give Kesejic the floor because, according to article 97, only the president, or representative of the parliamentary group, can speak to the People's Parliament's Parliament's Rules of Procedure. The power is conferred on MP Miroljub Veljkovic. I asked you nicely, I'm sorry that you were ignorant, whether you had a suggestion or a injury, and you repeated it five times after the injury, and it went into the stenographic notes; I can't teach you how to use the word right now. The second thing is that the MP Nikolic did not receive a replica because the previous speaker did not make an offensive statement about him, nor did he misread it according to Article 98. Therefore, there is no breach of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Miroljub Veljkovic is not present. The People's Messenger Đura Lazic has the word, and then the Messenger of the people Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19024	I see this bill as one attempt by the Government of the Republic of Serbia to coordinate certain solutions with federal Criminal Law and that is fine. I noticed that many provisions of the law greatly and drastically increase criminal provisions. I would refer only to two segments of the Bill's proposal, which is Article 5 of the Bill which provides for a provision of violence against a member of another people, ethnic group or religious community. In Article 60a, which is proposed under this law, I must quote, it is said: "Whoever members of another people, ethnic groups or religious communities attacks, severely insults, abuses or commits other violence in a way or under the circumstances that cause a sense of uncertainty or inequality of members of that people, ethnic groups or religious communities, will be punished by imprisonment from one to ten years." I think this article would be meaningful and okay if the government of the Republic of Serbia had not devalued the provisions of some members of the Law on Amnesty. Why am I saying this? The Law on Amnesty, which we have passed in this assembly and in the Federal Assembly, enables the release of many winemakers against members of the Serbian national community, the Serb people, members of other non-Albanian communities in Kosovo and Metohija; they are released from prison under the heading of the Law on Amnesty, and we know that in the earlier law there was one provision concerning criminal acts related to interethnic relations, in order to prevent the mass attack and persecution of the Serb people in the area of Kosovo and Metohija. Now it has happened that this member is absolutely offended by this act, these freed winemakers are now harassing Kosovo and Metohija, and in return our people, Serbs, Montenegrins, the chamomiles by the Shiptar signs in Kosovo and Metohija, neither guilty nor debtors, and we do not have the opportunity to influence their release, nor do we know the fate of many who have disappeared. Another thing I'd like to say - the fact is that the more massive phenomenon of the work of many sects (and about that there have been a lot of words) that are spiritually poisoning our youth through their actions. I think that, Minister, there should be some possibility that a provision should be put in place in this bill that would sanction or restrict the functioning of those sects or sanction the action that poisons our youth, because it was before and it has it now. I think it would be necessary to install a segment that would protect our youth.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19025	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. He's not there. After him is MP Srboljub Zivanovic and then MP Slobodan Tomovic. The time for the Serbian Radical Party is 23 minutes, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I'll be glad to hear all 23 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19026	Ladies and gentlemen, they shoot, they shoot Chad's cousins, bullets pop all over the place, blood slips in the streams, victims fight with their souls, surgeons climb out of their heeled veins to save lives, and the police watch it with their hands cut. The courts are uninterested.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19027	I ask the MP to stick to the Rules of Procedure and stick to the subject of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19028	If that's what he ordered, Chad's word is stronger, stronger than the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19029	People's MP, you are required by the Rules of Procedure to stop and listen in case the chairman speaks to you. Only the chairman has the right to speak during his speech.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19030	Thus, in the beginning of 2000, cousin Cedomir Jovanovic and known member of the Surcin mafia Ljubomir Jovanovic Glakli fired eight bullets in Petar Panic. Petar Panic was pierced like a sieve: four bullets blew through Panic's lungs, two bullets pierced his liver, destroyed his kidney and spleen, one bullet hit him...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19031	Since you have two warnings, MP, I take your word for it. The word has a National MP Slobodan Tomovic, followed by MP Branislav Blazic. Excuse me, MP, MP Branislav Blazic, authorised representative of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group, injured the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19032	I really must warn the chairman again to pay attention to Article 97 and yet in this dialogue that leads to the MP who speaks for this speaker we cannot all hear what she really wants to say and why she is taking away the word from the MP. This text, which has been read, describes one crime, describes an attempt to kill and wound several bullets, for which no resolution procedure has been initiated solely because of relatives of Mr Jovanovic. Why is there now something offensive, and what is this reason to take away the word of the People's Messenger? I'm sure it's easier to go from democracy to dictatorship. Usually, many initial democratic systems go into the development of democracy, because it takes a lot of nerves, nerves, tolerances and positive emotions, or a government that thinks it creates some democratic processes and relationships very easily slips away and returns to dictatorship, because dictatorship is far easier to rule, far simpler and there is no reason for any anxiety. That's exactly what's happening today in our society. All the stories and attempts to develop a democratic society seem to fall on the fact that much is trying to solve with a beating. You know, beating up good people makes bad people, and making bad people worse. I'm sure that's not the way. We will read this text, no matter what attempts you make to prevent it. It's about something that's clearly true. It's something the public has a right to know. After all, this speaker serves to tell some true stories. The other thing is that some truth hurts and tries to hide it, explaining that it's an insult against a man or an individual. Here, believe me, nothing has been directed against any individual. It's about the system, it's about whether we have a system that can actually create an independent judiciary or have a system that individuals can determine what they're going to do and who they're going to judge.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19033	Retracting words to the previous speaker, MP Srboljub Zivanovic, did not go according to the provision you quoted, MP Branislav Blazic, and as you can see, when you stick to the agenda theme, there is no need for me to interrupt the MP. It's about not listening very carefully. So two warnings have already been issued to MP Srboljub Zivanovic on January 24th. I warned him, under Article 100, not to stick to the topic of the agenda and that it was a violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which is the discretionary right of the chairman. He is required, under article 2, to hear the remarks of the chairman of the National Assembly. Since he did not want to do so, that was the reason for the final degree of punishment, that is, taking away words. Do you want the National Assembly to declare itself? National MP Branislav Blazic complains about the scrupulousness of the explanation. [[Sagar.]] I ask you to agree within the MP's group, since your other MPs are complaining that it's too wide and that you have harmonised political views. So there's no statement. [[Sagar.]] Thank you. National MP Cedomir Jovanovic, proposed by the Rules of Procedure or Injury?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19034	Mrs. Komic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would only ask you not to quote the third position of that member in which it is said that it is not allowed to use offensive expressions, as well as to give facts and assessments relating to the private life of others, but to quote the first position in which it is said that MPs must respect the dignity of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19035	The objection is both a member of 101 and a member of 103 and a member of 100 are subject to violations by the MPs; the fact is that if anyone does not respect the Rules of Procedure then they will not. Since you've complained about scurvy, then here's an even wider explanation. I am informing the National Assembly that the president of the National Assembly, with my consent, and at the request of the Serbian Radical Party MP Natasa Jovanovic, broke the Rules of Procedure and sent speakers from the Serbian Radical Party in the middle of the agenda, with a request that, having been taken away from them, they take part in the discussion in the middle of the period and past the Rules of Procedure. It has to do with the fact that Serbian Radical Party MPs want the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly not to apply to them, but only to other persons. The degree of tolerance is shown in that you are allowed in the middle of the agenda, which would very much challenge that other MPs are in this National Assembly, you get the right to speak. Therefore, Article 101 - that MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly - stands as a obligation for all of us. National MP Slobodan Tomovic has a word, with an apology for waiting for a round of replicas and Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19036	The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, we understood that the basic idea, for which this law should be passed, first and foremost, is that some new areas of this law should be regulated. So, something that would be an addition to the law we've had so far, and on the other hand to illustrate this law, or to say so, to the European Union's demands, to adopt one of these laws, we understand, also implies meeting one of the conditions for our accession to the European Union. When I say so, I am primarily referring to the abolition of the death penalty, and that is what we as members of the Socialist Party of Serbia have also declared ourselves in the federal parliament. However, you will agree, I hope, with me, that one bitter taste remains, no matter how much it pleads for humanity and the reasons why it is necessary to abolish the death penalty, that in the present conditions, created in various times for various reasons in Serbia, indeed one such security situation probably leaves a lot of reasons for the law, as the lawyers would say, to remain as an opportunity for certain acts to be threatened with the death penalty. Obviously, you can't go to Europe without it. If that's the case, and we've already made it clear that we're not going to be an obstacle, from that point of view, to the entry of Yugoslavia and Serbia into Europe, I wouldn't want what we once said to exploit here, but I have to remind you that there still remains one bitter taste, and I'm sure most of this room share my opinion, that such a thing is probably the last thing we should do. For these reasons, I would like to ask Mr. Secretary, if that's all we have to do, as far as his jurisdiction and, above all, the Criminal Code, and then we ironed it all out, or if something else is going to be needed later. I don't want to caricate anything, but maybe one of the demands for us to enter Europe will be to admit gay marriages, so now if someone doesn't, then it'll be a crime, or something else. So, come on, if there's anything we need to do, let's know, that we're packing up now, right now, and it's over and it's over that we know that we did what we were asked to do or what was expected of us. As for the other things that have been found in this law as new or old, from the old we want to welcome an initiative that says that some acts are threatened by stricter punishments, and above all we think about rape and other things that this applies to, we think that's absolutely how it should be. But right now we're asking a question -- on one side of the Criminal Law, we have the possibility that, based on giving and receiving bribes, it is qualified as a criminal offence and that certain penalties are imposed in that sense. We've now introduced corruption that is that or similar, so now we don't know if it's parallelism or if it doesn't have to be said what is considered to be one, and what else, because the other is being introduced into other areas where it hasn't been introduced so far. It's possible that it's the same or that it's different; let me be forgiven (because in that matter I'm not really at home, given my educational profile) that even a question like this, perhaps even inadmissible, I ask. Finally, there is a new chapter in this proposal relating to the crime committed by a member of one nation to another people. There was no such thing as our law until now. It may exist somewhere, but still... (Minister, from the post: we accepted the amendment. Well, well, if it is, then we don't talk about it because we don't think that's it. If the amendment was accepted, then I wouldn't exploit the subject further. In any case, we have submitted a number of amendments and our statement regarding this law will function as amendments that are accepted, to the extent that they are accepted. So far, we won't vote for this law in principle. I thank you for giving me the opportunity, Madam Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19037	This has exhausted the time of the SPS parliamentary group. The word has a folk MP Branislav Blazic, followed by Dragan Colic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19038	Ladies and gentlemen, the Serbian Radical Party considers it absolutely pointless for the National Assembly today to discuss amendments and additions to the Criminal Law. It's not about whether we need a better law or not. Any law can be improved depending on the time we live in, new requirements, new estimates, different arrangements. We've had criminal law, but the problem is whether we apply the one we have or not. The former, non-national, dictatorial regime has issued an APB on Ljubomir Jovanovic, cousin of Cedomir Jovanovic, for attempted murder. Cousin Cedomir Jovanovic, Ljubomir Jovanovic Glakli, fled abroad. When on 5 October democracy won Serbia and DOS,...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19039	I ask the MP to take care of the dignity of the National Assembly and of all attitudes. According to article 101, you are required to agree in your speeches on the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and with respect for all provisions.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19040	The warrant was withdrawn, so Ljubomir Jovanovic Glassni returned to Serbia. No one of Chad's cousins was arrested. No court is in a position to judge Ceda's cousin Ljubomir Jovanovic with glass for attempted murder and a serious, life-threatening injury.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19041	People's MP, I give you my first warning for disrespect of article 101 concerning the address of the chairman of the National Assembly, who has the obligation to interrupt the speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19042	It's not a joke in a man to fire eight bullets. It's better to judge a doctor, a surgeon who took out bullets and saved Petra Panic's life.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19043	Mr. Bliss, I'm giving you a second warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19044	In gratitude for protecting his cousin, Ljubomir Jovanovic the Glass...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19045	I honestly believe that this way of communicating with the speaker is completely unnecessary and that we will not end up respecting the dignity of the National Assembly unless we agree on common respect for the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19046	... The Surcin mafia gave Cedomir Jovanovic a race horse. What only Stanko Sobotić Cane gave Cedomir Jovanovic to protect him from the court and the law. Stanko Subotic Cane organised the murder of police General Radovan Stojic Badge.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19047	People's messenger, after two reminders, I take your word for contempt of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19048	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19049	The word is by MP Bozidar Vujic, as an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19050	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, until 12:30, I believed the National Assembly had a Rules of Procedure. As Mr Jovanovic went out, we found that the Rules of Procedure no longer exist. The Rules of Procedure say who runs this session and who makes sure there's order at the session. The Rules of Procedure also state in certain provisions how order is maintained at this session and who runs it. That should be the current chairman, Ms. Comic. By going out, Mr Jovanovic, at 12:30, we found everything that SRS MPs constantly, in the context of a debate on Criminal Law, speak and show you plastically - that all the debate on Criminal Law is unnecessary, because Serbia already has an existing Criminal Law, which, however, is not implemented; and that it is pointless - it is, through the example of Mr Jovanovic. And in this case we won't need a Rules of Procedure either, we won't need Mr. Jovanovic, Ceda Jovanovic will apply. That's why Miss Comic made a mistake and apparently Mr Jovanovic showed that you DOS should have such a chairman, who does not know how to apply the Rules of Procedure and to implement it. Ceda Jovanovic will now re-apply. We don't need a Rules of Procedure. We don't need laws. We had a zebra, we had everything that the mob, which runs the DOS, and in fact the mafia became DOS, and DOS became a mob, has an obvious example of Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic. Gentlemen of the DOS, in the future, whenever Mr. Jovanovic comes out all the Rules of Procedures you have, all the laws that this assembly will do, put aside, listen to what the mafia has decided at its meeting and passed on to Mr. Jovanovic as one of their perpetrators.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19051	People's MP, I give you my first warning because of the disrespect of the National Assembly and because you treat other MPs without respect and the next tactics you started yesterday. I ask you to complete your statement of violation of the Rules of Procedure, by quoting the Rules of Procedure, and to treat the entire National Assembly with respect.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19052	Mr Jovanovic does not recognise the Rules of Procedure either, he did not recognise the MPs when he addressed you in such a way, insulting you, who are actually trying to lead this assembly, Miss Comic. But the breach of the Rules of Procedure is being examined in Article 103 - you gave one warning, and then you took away the word to Mr Branislav Blažić, and you found no justification for it in any position of article 103. What Mr Branislav Blazic presented is the truth. Reading this text, just because it's true, hurts you, but the fact that Mr. Branislav Blazic was telling the truth was true. The fact is, what he started to read, what you DOS people keep saying, that former, unnatural, dictatorial regime, did all the wrong thing, against the people, but it's still the fact that the provisions and attempts to sanction under the existing Criminal Law have been applied. That's why an arrest warrant was called for the murder, attempted murder, and for the crimes committed by Mr. Ljubomir Jovanovic Glass. Now, his cousin, when you came to power, is trying to...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19053	I'm asking the MP for the second time to come back on the subject, which is a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19054	I'm back on the subject, but you, Miss Comic, don't listen to me at all. No wonder Cedomir Jovanovic is looking for your shift. The point is that Mr Branislav Blazic was telling the truth. It was an unnatural regime, but it tried to bring the perpetrators to justice and sanction them. All of this was presented by Mr Branislav Blažić and you have done a violation of Article 103 by giving him the first, second warning, and then you have taken away his word, without finding any justification in the views of Article 103. Read, you have time, because you do not lead the Assembly, but Mr Cedomir Jovanovic, and you, Miss Komic...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19055	Mr. Vujic, you're breaking the Rules of Procedure. Time, fifth minute, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19056	I am finishing and calling on Article 103 - to vote on it, to read on the basis of which you have both given one and two reminders to Mr Branislav Blažić, and then you have taken away his word on the basis of that Article 103 because there is no justification for such sanctions.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19057	Right on line, MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19058	Ladies and gentlemen, says Mr. Nikolic, "As Chad says." What's nice, Grandma? That's what happened. However, it will not be possible, but it will be as the institutions say, although I know that Mr Nikolic would like to be, "What Ceda says." The replica and the basis for the replica I asked for was in the section of the sentence issued by the MP Bozidar Vujic, and he was very much chaired by the National Assembly. The untrueness is the image he has, that someone else is chairing the National Assembly. I must warn him that this is the basis by which I can report for the replica, as a People's MP, and as someone to whom the presidency's duties were entrusted at that time. Yesterday I said and today I will repeat that, as a political party and a parliamentary group, you have the right to come up with your political performance strategy as you think it should. What I think is the right more, is that you place it as the majority attitude of this congregation. And what I recognize, as the chairman of the National Assembly, when it comes to offensive expressions, hate speech, intention to place one news and become a general place, and it doesn't matter who checked it, it's the moment when someone has to tell you -- never again. All the kind of anger you have on me, when it comes to the presidency, you have the right to them as people, as MPs. But, and now, and every time I run the National Assembly sessions, carrying out, arbitraryly, casually, hate speech, speech of intolerance, condemnation of attitudes and representation of it as facts -- can never again. We tried, it's not good. Thank you. (Tomislav Nikolic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19059	You have no right to a replica, Mr. Nikolic. You were mentioned, but not offensive, and you were mentioned for violating the Rules of Procedure, and you were throwing it away. (Tomislav Nikolic: I just want to get into the record whether I have the right to replication. You challenged the speaker to mention you because you threw away. You have no right to a replica. National MP Tomislav Nikolic does not have the right to replicate because he was mentioned, as a result of the fact that he threw to the MP Gordana Komic. (Tomislav Nikolic: I am looking for a replica based on an insult by the party and the parliamentary group. This is where we're told to use the hate speech. No party mentioned. (Tomislav Nikolic: Our MP was addressed by Mrs Comic. Come on, go ahead. (Tomislav Nikolic: It's not "come on", but "Here you go". That means you're right. When I say, "Here you go," that means you're right.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19060	I can't accept that tone of yours "come on, come on." First of all, it's not in your mercy, but in the grace of the Rules of Procedure, whether I have the right to reply or not. I have the right to a replica, regardless of what you are in the Assembly seducing dictatorship, introducing the punishment of MPs for the words they pronounce for the speaker of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, whether you like those words or not. I don't like what you say about us either, and I don't like it because it doesn't sanction the chairman of the hate words sent to the SRS. You might expect us to retire to the mouse holes when you tell us something like that. Yesterday we heard here an open threat to a national MP, that he, to God, is afraid of The Hague because he organized and committed war crimes, and you are not responding at all, and you are reacting to any discussion, even taking away the word of the MP, Stevan Kesejić, who asked for the word of the Rules of Procedure. You didn't give him the word in the Rules of Procedure. He didn't want to object to the breach of the Rules of Procedure. He asked for word from the Rules of Procedure and wanted to propose that we work today until 15.00 hours. But you appreciated what he wanted to say, and even in that case you didn't give him your word. It doesn't matter which one of you is chairing the National Assembly session, you're acting exactly the same, except that Mrs. Komic's arguments are somewhat more shocking than the reasoning given by Natasa Micic. Please establish one criterion so that according to that criterion, we all behave here. Don't think you can say anything you want here to the MPs of the SRS and we'll be scared of fines, because every single one of your usurpations of democratic behavior in the National Assembly is pulling back the rigorous fines against the MPs of the SRS. Don't think you'll do what you've done with these radical fines from other MPs who are not in power at the moment, but help you exercise power. The worse beast could not scare us, and especially you, whose underpants trembled with fear. The first time you've realized what it's like to rule a country where more than half the people aren't for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19061	The word is made by MP Dragan Colic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19062	Let's end it, brothers, all the laws, because we have our Chad. Cedomir Jovanovic is a paradigm of the Dosmanal legal order. Long live Ceda Jovanovic, an alpha and an omega of DOS understanding of freedom and democracy. The SRS sees it absolutely pointless today for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to discuss amendments and additions to the Criminal Law. Serbia doesn't need a criminal law. In fact, we don't need any law, because we have Cedomir Jovanovic. Anyway, whenever Cedomir Jovanovic and any law are in college, Chad applies. (President: Mr. Colic, I warn you to return to the agenda. It's not about Chad's zebra anymore. It's about Chad's street. It's about the most serious crime, the crime scene. Killing is forbidden. (President: Mr. Colic, I give you my first warning on the basis of Articles 103 and 104) Killing is forbidden unless you are cousin of Cedomir Jovanovic. (President: I give you a second warning. The relatives of Cedomir Jovanovic have the right to kill freely.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19063	I'm taking your word. The word is from the People's MP Bozidar Vujic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19064	No matter what you're making flight changes as in hockey, Miss Micic, when I went out to the Rules of Procedure last time, asking for a word to point to the breach of the Rules of Procedure (because this Rules of Procedure are no longer applicable, Ceda goes on), I asked to vote on it, about the injury, and to explain Article 103, on which Mr Branislav Blažić received the first warning, then the second one, and then to express the measure of taking the words. I said that Mr. Branislav Blažić was only telling the truth by reading this text and that in no position of Article 103, no measure can be found on the basis of which he was sanctioned. You've done the same thing now, in the same case, under Article 103 and Article 104, which you have called upon. I don't know if you're changing at this point like hockey, but there's no need to call on members 103 and 104, because like the last time, not respecting this Rules of Procedure, because you're just changing here, you seem to be sticking to Chad, not the current Rules of Procedure. Well, hold on, Chad. I think the MP should be subject to this Rules of Procedure, whatever it is. That's why you gave Mr. Cholic all three sanctions. So you gave the first warning, then the second and the third, by taking away his word. I call you again, this time, again, not knowing whether you and Mrs Comic are changing in the meantime, that at last, as in the case of Mr Branislav Blazic, so now in this case, Mr Colic, you are giving an explanation for why you are sanctions against these MPs of the SRS and to read Article 103, and I believe you will not. I'll read it now, and you tell me on the basis of which you gave the sanctions. I quote and believe that you will not take this time into account: "The warning is given to the MP who approached the speaker, without the permission of the National Assembly" - this falls into the water because you are Miss Comic first, and now you, Miss Micic, have also called Mr Blazic and Mr Colic to come out for this pay phone; "... who speaks before he has asked and received his word" - you can't do this either, because on the basis of the application they received a word from you, the temporary chairman, until finally this assembly agrees that the Rules of Procedure are not really valid anymore, but that Chad should be valid; "... who, despite the warning of the President of the National Assembly, spoke about a question that is not on the agenda" - it is not this either, because on the agenda is a criminal law. We show through plastic examples that you do not even implement the existing Criminal Law, and you want to bring a new one in which you have extended the penalties for certain acts, and you have come out to meet Europe, to be a civilized country and to replace the death penalty with the maximum sentence of prison. No measure can be expressed either to Mr Blažić or Mr Colic, because what they read and what they read will continue to be SRS is true and it is not false
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19065	Don't explain it to everyone now.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19066	Miss Micic, I apologize, I read, if I interrupt the speaker in the presentation. Neither Mr Blažić nor Mr Colic interrupted themselves, the care you did, and I do not know whether Mr Ceda will seek and give you a reminder. It seems to me that Chad is in this congregation, not the Rules of Procedure. "If it brings out facts and assessments relating to the private life of other persons" the conduct of criminal activities, the carrying out of criminal activities in public, and the public finds out about it through means of information, it cannot mean that it is a private life. These are acts that, under Criminal Law, the existing, which you don't do at all, should be sanctioned and that has nothing to do with private life. "If he uses swearing and offensive expressions" - well, say one swearing or offensive expression that Mr Blažić or Mr Colic put forth; not only this assembly, not only the assembly majority of DOS, and the people will believe you. "If other procedures violate order at a session or act against the provisions of this Rules of Procedure... Ms. Micic, or if you have switched with Ms. Komic in the meantime, explain this Article 103; and I ask that this be voted on and injured by the Rules of Procedure when the measure was made to Mr. Branislav Blažić and now Mr. Colic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19067	Both Mr Branislav Blažić and Mr Dragan Colic both committed the injury you read, despite the warning of the National Assembly president, they spoke of a question that was not on the agenda and presented facts and assessments concerning the private life of others. Everyone else will get that sanction if he hurts that Article 103. I am putting on the vote for an injury brought out by MP Bozidar Vujic. For 34, against 90, the abstentions, were not voted 62, a total of 186. The National Assembly has made a decision that there has been no damage to the Rules of Procedure. The word is made by MP Ljubomir Kragovic, and then by MP Vitomir Plužarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19068	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Chad's cousins, courts, laws, they can't do anything. They shoot, they shoot Chad's cousins, bullets shoot all over the place...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19069	Mr. Kragovic, I warn you to return to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19070	... The surgeons are climbing from their heel to save lives, and the police are watching it with their hands cut. The courts are uninterested. If that's what he did...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19071	Mr Kragovic, based on Article 102, and for the violation of Article 103. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I give you your first warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19072	Thank you. Thus, in early 2000, a famous member of the Surina mafia Ljubomir Jovanovic Glassen fired eight shots...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19073	On the basis of the same members, I give you a second warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19074	Petar Panic was pierced like a sieve, four bullets blew through Panic's lungs, and two bullets pierced his liver, crushed his intestines...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19075	Mr. Kragovic, I take your word. Here you go, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19076	Miss Micic... I haven't been informed of that, if it's a lady, I'll apologize, I apologize. Here, you suggest Milk, probably Milka knows. So, Mrs or Miss Micic, for the third time, Article 103; you just said that you both took Mr Blažić and Mr Colic's word for offensive expressions. I'm calling for the third time, this time Mr. Kragovic spoke. Don't you think a little bit; Ms. Micic, everything Mr. Kragovic experienced and experienced in the Kosovo and Metohija area of the Kosovo Mitrovica municipality -- they terrorized him, both him and the rest of the Serb people there, the Shipari. Now you do it, now do it DOS. I hope that the Serbian people in both Kosovo and all of Serbia see it. I ask that the vote be re-voted on Article 103 and explain where Mr Kragovic was telling the lie, so you gave him notice. Yes, he read the truth; and what Mr Kragovic said. He said-- that ex...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19077	Mr. Vujic, we're not going to be dealing with a team, I have to interrupt you, Mr. Vujic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19078	.... The international dictatorial regime -- as said by Mr Kragovic -- has issued an APB on Ljubomir Jovanovic, cousin of Cedomir Jovanovic. Very cousin of Cedomir Jovanovic, Ljubomir Jovanovic Glass...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19079	Mr. Vujić...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19080	... He escaped abroad. When democracy won Serbia on October 5th, DOS came to power, and Cedomir Jovanovic became an important state factor, the warrant was withdrawn, so cousin Cedomir Jovanovic, Ljubomir Jovanovic Glassni.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19081	Mr. Vujic, Mr. Vujic, I interrupt you in the presentation, by the authority I have under my Rules of Procedure, and I warn you of article 97, which says, "In breach of the Rules of Procedure, no decisions of the National Assembly and of the President of the National Assembly are considered to be made on the basis of the discretionary powers provided for in this Rules of Procedure." I've used my discretionary powers, and you're not an auditor, and I ask you no longer to answer the word for what you've done.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19082	The children of the poor left-handed introduce discretion and introduce illegal into Serbia. But let him. No one of Chad's cousins was arrested. No court is able to...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19083	Mr. Vujic, I give you a second warning under Articles 102 and 103.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19084	.... Ljubomir Jovanovic is tried for attempted murder and serious, for life and how dangerous, physical injuries.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19085	Mr. Vujic, I take your word. Please step away from the pay phone. The People's Messenger Vitomir Plužarević has the word, followed by the MP Goran Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19086	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that former international dictatorial regime has issued an APB on Ljubomir Jovanovic, cousin of Cedomir Jovanovic, for attempted murder. Very cousin of Cedomir Jovanovic, Ljubomir Jovanovic...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19087	MP Plužarevic, I warn you to stick to the subject of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19088	.... He escaped abroad. When democracy won Serbia on 5 October, DOS came to power, and Cedomir Jovanovic became an important state factor...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19089	On the basis of Article 102 and Article 103, I give you my first warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19090	.... The arrest warrant has been withdrawn, so cousin Cedomir Jovanovic, Ljubomir Jovanovic Glass, freely returned to Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19091	I give you a second warning on the basis of Articles 102 and 103.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19092	No court is in a position for Chad's cousin, Ljubomir Jovanovic Glass...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19093	I'm taking your word. Please leave the pay phone. The word has a People's MP... We won't argue, please, if you violate article 97 and discuss my discretionary powers. I'll also take action. [[elevator in the O.R.]] I warned that member of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19094	Mrs. Micic, would you like to explain to me at the beginning what that finger and that threat means? As an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, I have volunteered to advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure - and for what you have done now, and for what you are doing this morning and yesterday all day. Namely, both you and your colleague, Mrs Comic, have persistently violated the Rules of Procedure by taking the words of the SRS MPs. Yesterday, you explained it by making a lie. The whole time you were saying that the MPs of the SRS were false and that you were taking away their word for it. Explain to me, please, what is false of what the MPs of the SRS were saying here, what they were saying.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19095	Mr. Jovanovic, I warned you there was a member of 97th and you're not hurting that member. Since you're doing this, I'm giving you my first warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19096	And is it a fact that a certain Ljubomir Jovanovic-Glasklin shot Peter Panic?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19097	I give you a second warning, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19098	That's a fact, that's true, and that's why the former regime called an APB on Ljubomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19099	I take your word from you, Mr. Jovanovic, and I ask you to step away from the pay phone. I've already given an explanation, Article 97. The word has been given by MP Goran Cvetanovic, and after that, Lazar Marjanski and that is the last registered speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19100	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Prime Minister Djindjic said in his exposé that the fight against crime comes first. He said -- we need to bring down criminal accounts and abuses from the past 10 years. He said first those most serious crimes, the citizens with the right of this government expect to be taken as soon as possible, and here I am talking about weeks and days, not months, the enlightened murder of Slavko Curuvija; the murder of the Ibaric magistrate; the kidnapping of Ivan Stambolic and several other murders that apparently had a political background. Their employers, the perpetrators, must face justice. We will also establish a parliamentary commission to investigate the involvement of state services in serious crimes. So I'm asking you what's at stake here if the prime minister on behalf of the government said he was going to fight crime, why is the problem and why no court is in a position...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19101	Mr Cvetanović, our agenda theme is not a free topic of crime, but a proposal on amendments to the Criminal Law, completely concrete and clear. Please return to the agenda theme.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19102	Since you're supposed to be a lawyer, I think you should be competent and know what the law on crime is, or obviously you still need to learn. That's why I'm asking the question - why is no court able to judge Ceda's cousin Ljubomir Jovanovic with a glass trial for attempted murder and severe, for life...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19103	I give you my first warning on the basis of Articles 102 and 103. Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19104	... and what a dangerous, physical injury. It's not a joke in a man to fire eight bullets. It's better to judge a doctor, a surgeon who took out bullets and saved Peter Panic's life. In gratitude for protecting his cousin...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19105	I give you a second warning on the basis of Articles 102 and 103.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19106	... Ljubomir Jovanovic, a Surcin mafia, gave Cedomimir Jovanovic a race horse.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19107	I take away your word, Mr. Cvetanovic, and I ask you to step aside. The last registered speaker is Ambassador Lazar Marjanski.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19108	Gentlemen Members of Parliament, Madam Chairman, I am now advertising the Rules of Procedure under Rule 97, and I have one proposal. Since the minister of justice is here, representing and should be an independent judiciary and everything else, there's been so much discussion about the evidence and it's proven that Mr. Chad and his brother, I don't know, some relative, were supposed to come out here and say whether or not it was true or not and would not Serbian radicals insist so much on the truth that it wasn't. So I suggest that Mr. Chad come out and tell the truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19109	And I suggest you go back to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19110	And why isn't this a agenda topic?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19111	Because the topic of the agenda is the draft law on amendments and additions to the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19112	I'm the one who called in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19113	I'm the one who announced you as the last registered speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19114	Well, that's where you're wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19115	Yeah, and that's how you got your word on the Rules of Procedure after this exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19116	Otherwise, on this bill, I can say this -- that this law should sanction all those people and killers who have done it so far, who have the blame. In gratitude for protecting his cousin Ljubomir Jovanovic, the Surcin mafia gave Cedomimir Jovanovic a race horse. What did Stanko Sobotić Cane give Cedomir Jovanovic?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19117	I warn you to get back on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19118	Cedomir Jovanovic is the paradigm of the DOS-Mali legal order. Long live Ceda Jovanovic! That's all I've got.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19119	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, I ask before concluding a principled search whether they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups who did not exercise their right at the outset? There are no reports. I'm finishing the initial search. I am putting the draft law on amendments and additions to the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia in principle. For 134, against 51, the abstentioned, did not vote 11 out of 196 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted most of the votes the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. Since the Government of the Republic of Serbia has not delivered an opinion on the amendments submitted to the draft law, I remind you that, according to Article 136(5) of the Law, Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly may decide to consider the bill without it or set a new deadline for them to do so. The word came from the minister of justice and local self-government. First according to the Rules of Procedure, here you go. Is there a suggestion? Here's a suggestion.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19120	Proposed by the Rules of Procedure, that the time to discuss amendments should be three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19121	I put to the vote a proposal from the MP; MP Dragan Pavlovic suggested that, on the basis of Article 138, the time for discussion in particular be limited to three minutes. For 112, against 60, abstentions, he did not vote 21, out of 195 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that the time to discuss amendments will be limited to three minutes. I'm opening a review of the bill in particular. The word has a minister of justice and local self-government, Mr Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19122	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, esteemed observers, since last night was held a session of the Justice Committee, and that is why you were not given the Government's position on the amendments submitted to you in writing, but I would like to inform you that the government has accepted the following amendments: the amendment of the People's MPs Peter Cvetkovic, Dusan Budišin, Djordža Mamula and Veroljub Arsic and Tom Bushetic to Article 4; the amendment of MPs Petar Cvetkovic, Dusan Budishin, Djordža Mamula, Aleksandr Vukic and Zoran Nikolic to Article 5. We have accepted the eradication of Article 5, which introduces a crime of violence against a member of another people, an ethnic group or a religious community, so that it does not without reason cause great dilemmas and doubts whether there is discrimination or something like that, and this is a generally accepted position on the Justice Committee. Next, the amendment of Parliamentarians Petar Cvetkovic, Dusan Budishin, Djorđa Mamula and Goran Cvetanovic to Article 7. Bills of Law; Amendment of People's MPs Petar Cvetkovic, Dusan Budishin, Djorđa Mamula and Dragoljub Stamenkovic to Article 8. Law proposal; then the amendment of Peter Cvetkovic, Dusan Budišin and Djorđa Mamula to Article 16; Petar Petrovic to Article 20; the amendment of the People's MPs Peter Cvetkovic, Dusan Budišin and Djorđa Mamula to Article 22; the amendment of Petra Cvetkovic, Dusan Budišin, Djorđa Mamula and Djura Lazic to Article 24; for this reason, amendments of the MPs Rodoljub Šabić, Natasa Milojević, Olgice Kircanski, Jelena Milenković, Branko Gligorić, Dragan Milentijevic, Aleksandr Vatovic and Meh Omerović to Article 25, 26, 27, 28, 28; the amendment of the National MP Milan Marković to Article 29; the amendment of the aforementioned Members of Rodoljubić and others to the 30th to the Law; Amendment introducing a new member of violence in the family, MPs Leila Ruzdić-Trifunović and Dr Stevan Lilić; amendment of the People's MPs Petar Cvetković, Dusan Budišin, Djordža Mamula and Branislav Blažić to Article 34; Petra Cvetković, Dusan Budišin and Djordža Mamula to Article 35; the same MPs to Article 36; the same MPs and MPs to Mrs Gordana Pop-Lazić to Article 61; the amendment of MP Djordža Mamula to Article 64; Petra Cvetković, Dusan Budishin and Djordž Mamula to Articles 66, 68, 78 and 80. Proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19123	Since we do not have a report from the Government on the other amendments, I would like to put the motion to vote, according to Article 136(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we decide to consider the bill without a government report. For 134, against 21, with no abstentions, no vote was taken 37, a total of 192. I find that the National Assembly has decided to hold a discussion in detail without reports from the government. At a session of the Committee on Justice and Administration, MP Milan Markovic withdrew the amendment to add a new Article 2a after Article 2. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The applicant for the amendment is not present. The word has the mandated representative of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group, MP Lazar Marjanski.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19124	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, putting up with patient and persistent amendments to all members of the law on amendments and amendments to the Criminal Law, we Serbian radicals cannot resist the impression that our work is in vain, because we live in a country where DOS rule has abolished the legal order in general. While the writer of this legal project announces war on fortune tellers, the mafia manages all economic, financial and political processes. The main mobsters Stanko Saturday Cane, Philip..... And Dragoljub Mirkovic...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19125	I'm warning you to get back on the subject, and that's Article 3. It's a bill of law.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19126	... They've completely monopolised oil, tobacco, weapons and drugs. They've mastered the secret police, so their main dirty task force is the former and current top police officials...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19127	I give you my first warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19128	... Jovica Stanisic, Franco Simatović Franki, Milorad Lukovic, Mihalj Kertes and others. (Kertes isn't yours. ) Their political credo is Zoran Djindjic, president of the Serbian government.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19129	I give you a second warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19130	... The man who abolished the Constitutional Court. Is that the second warning for Curtis?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19131	I take away your word based on an article. 103 and 104. Mr. Marjanski, if I understand you correctly, did you withdraw the amendments of the Serbian Radical Party? No, I don't. I thought you said, "I'm sorry." Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 45, against 114 abstentions, he did not vote 31, a total of 190. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dusan Budishin, Djordje Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word has the People's Messenger George Mamula.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19132	The proposed solution does not comply with the Constitution and the laws. First of all, it is not clear which accomplices are meant to be freed, or that they can be milder punished if they reveal the work, the perpetrators, or the organizer. Only a helper can be more mildly punished by the general part of the Criminal Law, only a helper. An accomplice can't be slightly punished if he's an instigator. The instigator can't be any less punished under this law. The organizer of the criminal association can't be less punished, the co-executor can't be less punished. Imagine this situation: four men kill one, two go to one police station and report the other two, and these other two report those first two. Both can be called upon to be mildly punished, and they are co-executors. So this solution is against the law. If it was thought to strengthen the fight against organised crime, then a special law relating to organised crime should be passed and an amendment to the general section of the Criminal Code, which refers to the limits of the responsibility of accomplices. So don't do anything that's against the Constitution and the law. I don't think the Council of Europe will accept this either. You know, they don't appreciate just whether there's a death penalty or not. You have no solution like this in any European law. Neither in Germany, which is the basis and model for many European laws. Therefore, this is not a party issue, but rather a matter of the profession and good regulation of the Criminal Law in the state interest. So accept our amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19133	I thank the People's MP. Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate applying for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 81, against 57, abstentions, 7 did not vote 43, out of a total of 188 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 4th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Dusan Budisin, Djordje Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic, MP Veroljub Arsic and MP Toma Busetic. Since the Committee on Justice and Administration has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, it has also been adopted by the Government, I agree that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Members of the 5th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Dusan Budishin, Djordje Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic, MP Aleksandar Vukic and MP Zoran D. Nikolic. Since the Committee on Justice and Administration has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, it has also been adopted by the Government, I agree that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dusan Budishin, Djordje Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does a representative of the applicants of the amendment want a word? He pulled the amendment. I find that the MPs have given up the amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. National MP Dragan Colic does not have the right to speak. You have the right to contribute to the discussion, of course. I've accepted a few of these discussions from your colleagues. Is anyone else answering for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 27, against 117 abstentions, there were no 43 votes, out of 187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 7th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Dusan Budishin, Djordje Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic, as well as MP Goran Cvetanovic. Since the Committee on Justice and Administration has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, it has also been adopted by the Government, I agree that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Toma Busetic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here's a word from the People's Messenger, Tom Bushetic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19134	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is good that Minister Vladan Batic accepted the amendment to Article 4 as well as to Article 7, even better than I suggested. But what does this mean? This could mean a positive step by the new government to stop courting the international community, because all that was originally in the proposal in some way was courting the international community. And, here, yesterday the Prime Minister is crying out for the money of the European Union, and he says it's a scandal if you don't give the money. Of course, we talked all the time -- they won't give anything. It'll only give crumbs, and the conditions for getting those funds are very difficult. They say -- structural reforms should be analysed. A few days ago, I was talking about what structural reforms or adaptation mean. They mean ad hoc privatisation, with mass layoffs, liberalisation of the capital market, which means the outflow of capital from our country and bankruptcy and businesses and banks, and also the market foundation of energy prices, food, communals and everything else. So they're not happy with these energy prices and they're asking for electricity to be even more expensive, a thousand percent. It's these structural reforms. Well, maybe the government is on track now to realize that everything the international community is looking for is not to be accepted. I'd like to remind you of one thing. The only country in our environment that does not accept ad hoc what the European Union is looking for is Slovenia and only in Slovenia is living well. Everywhere in which these reforms have been made according to the dictatorship of the European Union, the situation is totally bad, and the population is completely impoverished. Here, in that part, I believe that this government and this government should stop courting the international community and accept everything they suggest, because they don't think us very well.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19135	Mr. Bushettic, do you withdraw this amendment, since it is immaterial, since it is...? You're pulling. I find that MP Toma Bushetic has withdrawn the amendment to Article 7. Members of the 8th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Dusan Budishin, Djordje Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic, as well as MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic. Since the Committee on Justice and Administration has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, it has also been adopted by the Government, I agree that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Rodoljub Sabic, Natasa Milojevic, Olgica Kircanski, Jelena Milenkovic, Branko Gligorić, Dragan Milentijevic, Aleksandar Vatovic and Meko Omerovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. MP Rodoljub Sabic withdraws the amendment on behalf of the MPs who have submitted this amendment together. I find that the amendment to Article 8 has been withdrawn. Members of the 9th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Dusan Budishin, Djordje Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic, as well as MP Zoran Radovanovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Do the applicants want a word? No, I don't. ) (Employees withdraw the amendment. () You are withdrawing, but remains the amendment of MP Zoran Radovanovic. Is he giving up the amendment, too? He's not present. Then we must vote. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 43, against 89, a abstentioned one, did not vote 46, out of a total of 179 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Milan Markovic submitted to the 9th amendment. (Employor Milan Markovic withdraws the amendment to Article 9.). Members of the 10th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Dusan Budisin, Djordje Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic, as well as MP Branislav Blazic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Do the applicants want a word? No, I don't. ) (Employees withdraw the amendment. ) Does MP Branislav Blazic stay with his amendment? (The discussion applies, as the MP does not have the right to speak. I put the amendments to the vote. For 29, against 90, a abstentioned one, did not vote 61, out of a total of 181 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Markovic. I find that MP Milan Markovic withdraws the amendment to Article 10. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dusan Budishin, Djordje Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does a representative of the applicants of the amendment want a word? The MPs are withdrawing the amendment. I find that the MPs have withdrawn the amendment to Article 11. Member of the 11th Amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. National MP Vitomir Plužarevic will contribute his discussion after his word has been taken from him. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 19, against 102, three abstentions, 57 did not vote, out of a total of 181 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Markovic. National MP Milan Markovic withdraws the amendment to Article 11. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dusan Budishin, Djordje Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic. I find that these MPs have withdrawn the amendment to Article 12. It's a bill of law. Members of the 13th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dusan Budishin, Djordje Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic. (Employees also withdraw the amendment. ) I find that the amendment to Article 13 has been withdrawn. The amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The applicant of the amendment does not have the right to speak, but he will deliver the discussion. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 27, contrary to 115, the abstentions were not voted 39, out of a total of 181 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Dusan Budishin, Djordje Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic. I find that these MPs have withdrawn the amendment to Article 14. Members of the 15th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dusan Budishin, Djordje Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic. The MPs are withdrawing this amendment. Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by MP Joca Arsic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There's a word from MP Joca Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19136	Dear MPs, as has already been said, I have submitted an amendment to Article 16 which reads that Article 76a point 1 deletes the words "money punishment, or". For the sake of better monitoring of this proposal - a violation of freedom of movement and housing - it is envisioned: "Who unlawfully deprives or restricts a citizen of the Republic of Serbia the freedom to move or settle in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, will be fined or jailed for up to one year. "And in Section 2: "If the work of Article 1 does an official person in the service, he will be punished by a prison of six months to five years." I, in my amendment, suggested that this work be punished by a more severe sentence, a sentence of imprisonment, because fines are fined by a lot of treasures compared to the work done. I think you should delete these words with "money punishment," and leave this part of "jailed to one year". So, they're going to be jailed by one year. Many words have been made here that the criminal policy that was conducted in the previous period was mild, inadequate, unsuitable, and if the law provides for a number of penalties that they are not respected, and now even easier solutions are proposed than existing solutions. With this proposal, I think we're going to fix it; nothing hurts, nothing is terrible; one that prevents citizens from moving must certainly be sanctioned, and that, I'm sure, better and stronger punishments, or more appropriate measures threatened by the perpetrators of this crime. I therefore suggest that you accept this amendment of mine, although the government rejected it, or did not consider it, since we received nothing written from the Government that the amendments were rejected. The amendments are listed themselves (this is where the minister presented us) that the government has accepted. But before we approach the vote on this amendment, I doubt that there are this many of us, or that one number doesn't vote. I don't think they're in the O.R., so I suggest we determine the quorum first, and then we hold a vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19137	I thank the People's MP. I ask the People's MPs to determine the quorum. I find that there are 13 MPs in the room of the SPS, who asked for a quorum. Is anyone else applying for this amendment? Here you are, straight to the line, Branislav Ivković.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19138	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the SPS MPs did not seek the responsibility of then-President Natasa Micic for six months, as she clearly showed her simple bitter political commitment with her swift warnings and sentences. This situation, that it now counts the MPs and makes a difference in this regard between SPS MPs and MPs within the DOS, just shows its absolute willingness to cite water on its political guide. How many SPS MPs are, this is a matter of the SPS, and what kind of relationship DOS MPs have, let the DOS MPs present show a percentage of the total number, so count yourself as many of you as there are. You rule this country and it is your duty to hold the quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19139	Mr. Ivkovic, I will provide you with a list and percentage of the participating and remaining parliamentary groups. Anybody else answer for a word? You have no right to a replica. [[Joca Arsic: Right to replica.]] (Joca Arsic: You misread me. I can't talk to you like that. Is anyone applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) I am putting the amendments tabled by MP Joca Arsic. For 39, against 110, the abstentions, did not vote 12, out of a total of 161 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dusan Budishin, Djordje Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic. The Prime Minister and the Committee on Justice and Administration have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee has not adopted this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19140	It's likely that this member is also engaged in a crash at speed. We have managed what stands in the Constitution of Yugoslavia, Article 30: "The citizen is guaranteed freedom of movement, housing and the right to leave the SRJ and return to it." So, the citizens of Yugoslavia are both citizens of Serbia and the citizens of Montenegro. The bill states that denying freedom of movement and housing to the citizens of Montenegro on Serbia's territory is not a criminal offence, which is why the proposal discriminates against the citizens of Montenegro. So please support our amendment. It's about human rights.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19141	The Prime Minister and the Committee on Justice and Administration have accepted the amendment, but since it is not the Legislative Committee, I am putting this amendment to the vote. For 123, two, with five abstentions, were not voted 23, out of 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. I'm setting a break to 15.00 hours. [[After break - 15.55.]] I find that we have a quorum so we can continue to work, debate in detail on the draft law on amendments and additions to the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia. On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Lazar Marjanski. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For five, against 95, the abstentions were not voted 49, out of a total of 149 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 17th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dusan Budishin, Djordje Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic. The MPs have withdrawn this amendment. I also find that MPs Dusan Budishin, Gjorge Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic withdrew the amendment to Article 18. I also find that MPs Dusan Budishin, Gjorge Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic withdrew the amendment to Article 19. I find that MPs Dusan Budishin, Gjorge Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic withdrew the amendment to Article 20. National MP Petar Petrovic submitted to the 20th amendment. The Prime Minister and the Committee on Justice and Administration have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MPs Dusan Budishin, Gjorge Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic withdrew the amendment to Article 21. National MP Tomislav Nikolic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 26, against 118, the abstentions were not voted 26, out of 170 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 22nd Amendment together include mid-national MPs Dusan Budishin, Djordje Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic. The Prime Minister and the Committee on Justice and Administration have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. An amendment was withdrawn to Article 23, which was submitted jointly by MPs Dusan Budishin, Djordje Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic. Members of the 24th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Dusan Budisin, Djordje Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic, as well as MP Djura Lazic. The Prime Minister and the Committee on Justice and Administration have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MPs Dusan Budishin, Gjorge Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic withdrew the amendment to Article 25. It's a bill of law. The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Stevan Kesejic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. National MP Stevan Kesejic will contribute his discussion after his word has been taken from him. Does anyone want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 12, against 105, the two abstentions, did not vote 53, out of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Petar Petrovic submitted to the 25th amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The amendmentr wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19142	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 25. Proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia. In fact, it is a member of the 103rd original text, i.e. the basic text of the law. This is about the crime scene of rape. In the draft law, it is proposed that in the position of the 1st member, the words "not living in a marriage community" are deleted, and I, in my amendment, ask, on behalf of the Soviet Parliament group, that the words "not living in a marriage community" remain. Well, let me explain: it's a criminal act of rape in the marriage community. It is necessary to distinguish the marriage community from other communities. Namely, where marriages are particularly disturbed can occur, and very often there is, abuse of the guilty act of rape, so that husband or wife can be accused and a process that has far-reaching consequences on those individuals. We don't think that would be desirable today, to allow in our society this crime of rape in the marriage community to be sanctioned in this way. I also suggested that the minimum criminal measures, i.e. sanctions provided for the execution of this crime be changed, so that I suggested that the minimum sentence provided for in paragraph 1, which is one year, be three years, and in paragraph 2, a minimum sentence of three years was provided, and I suggest that it be five years. In particular, I ask you to pay particular attention to the position of the 3rd crime where it is said - if the act of the 1st member is done according to a minor or the death of a female has occurred as a result of his execution, the perpetrator will be punished by prison, so it has been proposed for at least five years. I suggest it be at least 10 years. Why? If the crime of rape was committed and death occurred, I think the lowest sentence of 10 years is objectively looking, small, but we still have to start from some punishment and I think we should take this minimum penalty, or sanction, for 10 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19143	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 42, against 108, with five abstentions, did not vote 23, out of 178 MPs. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted by the Assembly. The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Rodoljub Sabic, Natasa Milojevic, Olgica Kircanski, Jelena Milenkovic, Branko Gligorić, Dragan Milentijevic, Aleksandar Vatovic and Meko Omerovic. The Prime Minister and the Committee on Justice and Administration have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 26th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Milan Markovic and joint MPs Dusan Budishin, Djordje Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic. National MPs Dusan Budishin, Djordje Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic withdrew this amendment and MP Milan Markovic also withdrew the amendment to Article 26. National MP Miroljub Veljkovic submitted to the 26th amendment. The Committee for the First Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The MP is not present. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 26, against 124, a abstentioned one, did not vote 30, out of a total of 181 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Rodoljub Sabic, Natasa Milojevic, Olgica Kircanski, Jelena Milenkovic, Branko Gligorić, Dragan Milentijevic, Aleksandar Vatovic and Meko Omerovic. The Prime Minister and the Committee on Justice and Administration have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MP Petar Petrovic submitted to the 26th amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Here's a word from MP Petar Petrovic, applicant for the amendment to Article 26.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19144	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's a criminal offense-- a forced promise or an anti-natural fornication. With my amendment, I suggested that the lowest sanctions, i.e. penalties provided for the perpetrators of these crimes, be increased - instead of one to 10 years to be three to 10 years. In attitude 2, the words "at least three years", are replaced by the words "at least five years". I would not repeat the explanation that I gave when I went out and explained about the previous member, but, to say the least, I'm surprised (and all of us in the SSJ are surprised) that the representatives of the Women's Network do not support that the perpetrators of these crimes are being sanctioned more strongly, and we know that they are the only victims of a more beautiful sex, i.e. women and girls who are always damaged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19145	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 40, against 116, the three abstentions, did not vote 24, out of 183 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 27th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dusan Budishin, Djordje Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic. That amendment has been withdrawn. The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Markovic. National MP Milan Markovic withdraws the amendment to Article 27. The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Vujic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 26, there are no 124 abstentions, 34 did not vote, out of 184 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Milos Lukic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Here's a word from MP Milos Lukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19146	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, this amendment refers to Article 105 of the basic text of the Criminal Law, which is the promise and the anti-natural fornication of an impotent person. This is a bit of a specific case where mentally impaired persons are damaged, then people who are powerless to resist and so on. In this part, the legislator provided for a sentence of one to eight years, and this amendment proposed that we from the Soviet Union be between three and 10 years. For what? I think the punishment of one year is very problematic and certain that those who are willing to commit such a crime will not act preventively. This is a special topic when it comes to the preventive functioning of the law, and I think that the lower limit of three years (because during the trial there are always some extenuating circumstances for the perpetrators of such acts) would nevertheless have a certain effect and would affect the reduction of these crimes. Also, given the state of mind of many, especially young people in this society, and the growing number of mental illnesses, as well as those unable to resist, I think this amendment should be accepted. In Section 2, we have the same work with consequences, which are serious physical injuries, or when the work is done by several persons in a particularly cruel and particularly humiliating way. This is where the legislator predicted a sentence of at least three years, and we of the Serbian Unity Party propose that it be five years. I believe that in the event where such particularly extenuating circumstances are indeed found in the perpetrators of these acts, there are institutions for the extraordinary mitigation of penalties, which can be extremely applied. However, in principle, it must be done to increase the sentence for these particularly serious crimes, I repeat once again, given who the victims of these crimes are.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19147	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 49, against 101, with three abstentions, they didn't vote 32, a total of 185. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 27th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Rodoljub Sabic, Natasa Milojevic, Olgica Kircanski, Jelena Milenkovic, Branko Gligorić, Dragan Milentijevic, Aleksandar Vatovic and Meko Omerovic. The Prime Minister and the Committee on Justice and Administration have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MPs Dusan Budishin, Gjorge Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic withdrew the amendment to Article 28. It's a bill of law. National MP Petar Petrovic submitted to the 28th amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word has a National MP, Petar Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19148	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and this amendment, I have proposed that the lowest sanctions for the perpetrators of these crimes be more than are provided for by the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia. Let me remind you, for those who have not read the text, that it is a criminal part of the promise or an anti-natural fornication with a face that has not turned 14 years old. So, it's a very difficult and socially dangerous crime, and therefore the Soviet Parliament's group considers that the lowest sanctioned sanctions should be increased, so we suggest that instead of "one to ten years" in attitude 2 it should be from "three to 12 years"; in attitude 2 instead of "at least three years" to "at least five years", in attitude 3 instead of "at least five years" to "at least eight years" and in item 4. "at least ten years" to be "15 years". Paragraph 4 speaks - if the death of a minor has occurred as a result of the work described in Section 1 and 2 of this article. Is the criminal who commits this crime against a person who has not turned 14 should, under any extenuating circumstances, be sentenced only to ten years? I think it's 15 years short, but we did estimate that this should be the lowest measure that would be taken when the sanctions were imposed. Please keep this in mind when you press the buttons for and against.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19149	Does anyone else sign up for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 59, against 95, with three abstentions, was not voted 29, a total of 186. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Rodoljub Sabic, Natasa Milojevic, Olgica Kircanski, Jelena Milenkovic, Branko Gligorić, Dragan Milentijevic, Aleksandar Vatovic and Meko Omerovic. A representative of the government and the committees in charge accepted this amendment, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 29th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Markovic. A representative of the government and the committees in charge accepted this amendment, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MP Bozidar Vucurovic submitted to the 29th amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The applicant for the amendment will provide an explanation. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 34, against 121 abstentions, he did not vote 31, a total of 186. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Dusan Budishin, Gjorge Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic withdrew the amendment to Article 29. It's a bill of law. National MP Milos Lukic submitted to the 29th amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP Milos Lukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19150	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment that I have submitted to Article 29 actually refers to Article 107 of the basic text of the law. The amendment refers to paragraph 2 and point 3. I'd like you to pay attention to two things in Section 2. The perpetrator of this work is a teacher, educator, guardian, adoptor, stepdad or other person who, through the abuse of his position, commits a promise and an anti-natural fornication with a minor face, and the victim is a minor. Given the fact that this work has been getting more and more violent lately and there are many undeclared acts, we feel that we should seriously deal with the prevention of these acts, and I think this would be the first next task of this government and the total criminal legislation, all the way to the courts that impose these sanctions. Item 2 refers to the same persons as the perpetrators, with victims being under the age of 14. We in the Serbian Unity Party felt it was appropriate to increase the lower limit in these sanctions, so that instead of "one to ten years" being "three to ten years", instead of "at least three years", it should be "at least five years". "We believe that there is a lot of justification for our proposal and we believe that you will not be wrong if you vote for this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19151	Does anyone else sign up for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 46, against 109 abstention one, they did not vote 32, a total of 188. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 29th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Rodoljub Sabic, Natasa Milojevic, Olgica Kircanski, Jelena Milenkovic, Branko Gligorić, Dragan Milentijevic, Aleksandar Vatovic and Meko Omerovic. A representative of the government and the committees in charge accepted this amendment, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Members of the 30th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dusan Budusin, Djordje Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The MPs have withdrawn this amendment. I find that amendment has been withdrawn. National MP Srboljub Zivanovic submitted to the 30th amendment. He's not present. ) The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Is anyone else answering for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 26, against 120, the abstentions were not voted 48, out of 194 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 30th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Deretic and Zoran Novakovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here's a word from MP Zoran Novakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19152	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is one, in my opinion, of the more important members of this law who should act extremely preventively on those who have contributed or contributed to a general insecurity in women's sexes. It's about a section called - anti-natural fornication or plainer terms, for public purposes, a crime of rape. In the three categories of penalties that are proposed here, I have suggested a change in the duration of the sentence in drastic terms, precisely for the prevention, that the thugs finally realize that in our society they cannot have grounds or dare to think of such illegal actions. So, as a patriarchal man and as a parent of three children, I think you'll agree that he has a basis for what was proposed. And I suggested this: that for rape, that is to say, instead of the proposed sentence of at least one year, the sentence should be 10 to 20 years in prison. In another case, if there was a serious physical injury of a forced person, by a multiple person, or in a particularly cruel way (I underline, I specifically refer to the ladies, especially the cruel way) or especially the humiliating way, instead of the fine offered for at least three years, I have proposed a sentence of 10 to 20 years of heavy slavery. And, under three, I'd like to ask your attention because this is very important, if this rape work was done according to a minor who turned 14, or because of his execution, death occurred, instead of what I suggested for at least five years, I suggested that it be at least 20 years. As far as I'm concerned, I'd be more comfortable with American laws and perhaps with the law of Emperor Dushan's time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19153	Thank you. Does anyone else sign up for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 49, against 114 abstentions, the vote was not 30, out of 196 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 30th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Rodoljub Sabic, Natasa Milojevic, Olgica Kircanski, Jelena Milenkovic, Branko Gligorić, Dragan Milentijevic, Aleksandar Vatovic and Meko Omerovic. The Prime Minister and the Committee on Justice and Administration have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MPs Rodoljub Sabic, Natasa Milojevic, Olgica Kircanski, Jelena Milenkovic, Branko Gligorić, Dragan Milentijevic, Aleksandar Vatovic and Meso Omerovic together submitted an amendment suggesting that a new member of 30a be added after article 30a. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee did not accept the amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? Please, the word has a minister of justice and local self-government, Mr Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19154	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there have been great controversy over this article and about this amendment. I think an adequate legal-technical editorial should be carried out, and on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19155	The government has accepted the amendment. The word wants a representative of the amendment's applicants, MP Rodoljub Sabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19156	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all I thank the Minister of Justice for accepting this amendment on behalf of the Government, because I think it's on the line of something that's a normal pro-European orientation that we're running. Since committees, by circumstances, have not accepted this amendment, I would say that for a long time, at least as long as I take part in the work of the Justice Committee, there has been no such debate on a relatively narrow subject, so a proposal to integrate a new criminal act into the Criminal Law. I want the shortest explanation of the motives that the Social Democratic MPs have led to suggest this work. So, first of all, it's about an extremely important topic. A theme that we are going to Europe to deserve the treatment that we will sooner or later have to give it. It is a topic both in the European Parliament and in the Council of Ministers in Brussels treated as a topic of even supranational importance. If we have to face her already, we think it's better sooner than later. We're trying this proposal, and you've seen the explanation in the written text, to close those cracks that appear in the form of social behaviors that have not been punished so far. To be extremely honest, at the cost of not being polite from this pay phone, it's about pinching, touching, pulling, flattering suggestions, breathing and things like that that must finally be punishable. And, in short, if because of a formula that is elastic, because it is new, there are reasons to make it more exact or precise, through a legal -- technical editorial, and if that's the government's intensity, then of course, on behalf of the promoters, I have to say that we can't have anything against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19157	Thank you. The word came from Zoran D. Nikolic, an authorised representative of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group. May I have your attention, please? [[Sagar.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19158	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I have reported to express some of the dilemmas we had as members of the Justice Committee at the time, I would say, many hours of thinking and talking about introducing our criminal law into a new act of sexual abuse. It's less important how we socialists voted on that committee. We have been abstained from voting, due to some dilemmas related to just norming, by the way this criminal-legal norm is formed, by not wanting in any way to devalue the idea or to grumble before objective circumstances and the reality that abuse, and especially the abuse of women, is a phenomenon that deserves the attention of society and deserves the attention of parliament. But it's one thing to have a consensus that something is a crime and that it needs to be incorporated into the Criminal Law, as part of the protection against the social danger this act carries, and the other is the form and the way it's done. First, on the Committee, we talked in detail about whether it could be intervened in any way in this amendment so that it could get a form that could be implemented in practice and we realized that this Rules of Procedure did not allow any legal and technical order that Mr. Minister was talking about. I say - unfortunately, because I really believe that this amendment with certain arrangements would certainly be accepted by the vast majority in this House. Why can't this be accepted from our side, what's in the form that restricts it, in our opinion -- firstly, what only a woman's face takes as a matter of protection. If we go from the general principle of gender equality, the subject of protection, and the subject of sexual abuse can be both male and female. As performer of the work can be both theoretically and practically male and female. This amendment does not contain it. On the other hand, as it is written, the elements of this part are contained in the already existing three crimes in our Criminal Law. And there needs one more precise distinction. So there are elements here of a crime of insult, there are elements of a criminal act of abuse in service and there are elements of a criminal act of fornication. If we introduce the fourth act, which contains the elements of all these three parts that I've been talking about, plus this indetermination and inaccuracy about gender equality, then it's really a question - whether it's just formal obstacles or really should leave the government a little time to deal with this problem more studioly and to come up with a single incrimination that will be accepted in the future. It's all the reasons why we Socialists will be held back for this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19159	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? A representative of the government has accepted this amendment, with a legal-technical editorial. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 92, against 43, abstention 34, he did not vote 31, out of 200 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 31a be added after article 31a. A representative of the government has accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, and the Committee on Justice and Administration has adopted this amendment. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On the 32nd amendment, in the same text, the MPs Rodoljub Sabic, Natasa Milojevic, Olgica Kircanski, Jelena Milenković, Branko Gligorić, Dragan Milentijevic, Aleksandar Vatovic and Meho Omerovic, together with the MPs Dusan Budišin, Djordje Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic, as well as the MP Joca Arsic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Do any of the applicants of the amendment want a word? There's a word from MP Joca Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19160	Dear fellow Members of Parliament, as has been said, I have submitted an amendment to Article 32, to delete the article 32. An earlier article in 119 reads: "He who avoids giving support to a person who is legally required to endure, and this duty is determined on the basis of an executive judgment or executive settlement before a court or other competent authorities, will be punished by one year's imprisonment." The proposed amendment reads: "Whoever does not give support to a person who is legally required to maintain, in the amount and in the manner that this is determined by an executive judgment or by an executive settlement before a court or other competent authorities, will be fined by a fine or prison until one year". I think there's one illogicality here, and that's that one who doesn't give support is fined. The one who hasn't given up until now has no purpose in punishing himself with fines. The second, more important reason why I suggested that this Article 32 be deleted is that the amended provision of this crime would be unacceptable because it ignores the social and economic power of a person who is required to provide support. The present solution is more life-saving, because it sanctions only those who are able to provide support and avoid doing so, because the earlier solution has been proposed to punish, or sanction, persons who, undermining, avoid giving up support. There is nothing here that determines how and why maintenance is avoided, but it is immediately sanctioned by either a prison or a fine, and I said why it is simply an incredible fine for one who has not even given up so far. I think this amendment should be accepted for these reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19161	Anybody else answer for a word? There's a word from MP Dusan Budishin.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19162	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, our amendment is the same as the amendment of the predecessors, and I will remind you that this is a crime from the head -- a crime against marriage and family. We consider the present solution much better, because it does not say "who does not give support". If you do so in style, as in the legal proposal, then it practically closes the door, it's practically impossible in court to prove otherwise, and it can happen, especially in this situation where we are in today's situation, to drop judgments and where they shouldn't fall. The existing style is much better, because it says: "who avoids giving up support". So it's always easy to prove. However, if you say "who doesn't", then practically all those who don't subscribe to the same category are. This is very dangerous and very difficult to make in practice. So I suggest that this amendment be adopted and left with the old style of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19163	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 94, against 56, with five abstentions, no vote was made by 40, a total of 195 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Petar Petrovic submitted to the 32nd amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19164	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, in your presentation, you said that the intensity of these changes and the addition of the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia, among other things, is to strengthen criminal policy. The Soviet Parliament Group believes that this article is not about tightening criminal policy, but about giving easier measures. In fact, for those who do not give support, the existing law provides for a prison sentence for up to one year. It is now provided alternatively for fines or prison sentences to be imposed. That's why I suggested, in front of the SSJ MPs' club, that it be said: "money or" is deleted and that the only punishment that can be imposed remains, and that is the punishment for those who do not give up. It is also according to the SSJ programme, which, number one, has the protection of the family, and especially children who have nothing to live on in those marriages, and many who have to give support to those children so that they can live normally and get into life, simply do not give. If the sentence of prison were to remain threatened, it seems to me that those faces would be obliged to give these provisions, for the fine is much less a punishment than a prison sentence. That's why I think we should accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19165	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 42, against 102 abstentions, there was no vote of 45, a total of 189 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 32nd amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee has not adopted this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic adds a written explanation. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 41, against 101, the abstentions were not voted 48, a total of 190 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Goran Cvetanovic submitted the amendment to Article 33. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. National MP Goran Cvetanovic adds a written explanation. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 42, against 100, two abstentions, were not voted 45, a total of 189 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The MPs Dusan Budisin, Djordje Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic, as well as MP Branislav Blazic, submitted together to the 34th amendment. The Prime Minister and the Committee on Justice and Administration have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The amendment to article 34 has become an integral part of the bill. Member of the 35th amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Janjic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. National MP Slobodan Janjic adds a written explanation. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 43, against 102 abstentions, there was no vote 46, a total of 191 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 35th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dusan Budishin, Djordje Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic. The Prime Minister accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee also, the Legislative Committee believes this amendment is legally possible. The amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MP Zlatan Jovanovic submitted to the 36th amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. National MP Zlatan Jovanovic adds a written explanation. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 43, against 97, the abstentioned were not voted 47, a total of 187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 36th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dusan Budishin, Djordje Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic. The government's representative accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee as well, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MP Ljubomir Kragovic submitted the amendment to Article 37. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. National MP Ljubomir Kragovic adds a written explanation. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 39, against 102 abstentions, there were no 47 votes, out of a total of 188 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 38th amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. National MP Natasa Jovanovic adds a written explanation to his amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 39, against 104 abstentions, there was no 48 vote, a total of 191 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dragan Todorovic submitted to the 40th amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The amendment guy wants a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19166	Ladies and gentlemen, the essence of this law, as I said in principle in my presentation and discussion, is that a revision of the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia should be carried out. However, in this article, which provides for an increase in nominal amounts in criminal offences whose legal mark contains property value, there is practically one thing that makes it difficult for investigative and judicial authorities to take criminal action for perpetrators of criminal offences, in the proposed text - due to unwitting work in business. In addition, due to damage to residential and business buildings and premises, illicit trafficking, improper measurement, tax evasion, heavy theft, robbery theft, fraud, fraud, fraud, theft, fraud, fraud, fraud, and embezzlement. So it might seem to the laymen that in this way, by increasing the nominal amounts about four times, the ministry or the government would like to match these nominal amounts with a regular increase in traffic offences from five to 10 times. However, these amounts, which were harmonised last December 1998 with some fifteen thousand, and specifically related to Article 136, which regulates unsatisfactory work in business, are raised to 60,000 dinars. The amount of 150,000 dinars is replaced by 600,000 dinars. The essence of my amendment is that these amendments are responsible for the company or other organisation that carries out economic activity, which, knowingly in breach of the rules or decisions of the managing authority, etc., as well as its operations, can be prosecuted, as proposed, in the amount of more than 60,000 dinars. The point of my amendment is that this damage should be extremely lower. So, I have proposed an amount of 30,000 dinars, and if, as a result of the article in Article 1 of this article, property damages amounting to more than 300,000 dinars, as my amendment reads, instead of the proposed 600,000 dinars, or an emergency settlement or bankruptcy proceedings have been initiated, the perpetrator will be punished by a prison of one to five years. In order not to fall into contradiction, I would like to point out that Serbia's terms and conditions require all businesses, if not to grant medals, then show due respect. However, I believe that, because of the potential abuses in business, this level of damage that arises and which determines the amount for criminal prosecution of law enforcement should not be increased so drastically, but should be reduced by half. Therefore, the essence of my amendment is that the amount of 60,000 dinars and the amount of 600,000 dinars is reduced to 30,000 dinars and 300,000 dinars. (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. I hope you'll have an understanding of my argument. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19167	Does anyone want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 55, against 97, the abstentioned were not voted 35, a total of 187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 43rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dusan Budishin, Djordje Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic. They pulled the amendment, so he stopped being the subject of discussion in particular. The 46th amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word is from MP Petar Jojic, representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19168	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, putting up with patient and persistent amendments to all members of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to Criminal Law, we in the SRS cannot resist the impression that our work is in vain, because we live in a country where DOS rule abolished the legal order in general. While the writer of this legal project declares war on prophets and fortune tellers, the mafia manages all economic, financial and political processes. The main mobsters Stanko Studen Cane, Philip Cepter and Dragoljub Markovic called "Bird Product"...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19169	I ask the MP to respect article 100, 101, 103 and not to insult the dignity of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19170	... They've completely monopolised oil, tobacco, weapons and drugs. They've mastered the secret police...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19171	National Messenger Petra Jojic, I give you my first warning for disrespect of the dignity of the National Assembly and of the fact-telling...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19172	I didn't hear you, I didn't hear you, Mrs. Micic, because I can't, I'm getting the messengers from the bench, they're distracting me.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19173	I remind the People's MP, who, by the way, has an extraordinary rule of law, that when you are interrupted by the National Assembly by the Rules of Procedure, that you are obliged to...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19174	If I were lucky enough to rule the National Assembly chairing the law, it wouldn't have come to this.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19175	Considering this as an insult to the dignity of the National Assembly, I give you my first warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19176	It is a shame that the National Assembly has and manages and presides the one in his pants, the one in his pants, jeans, and other clothes that are inappropriate to this House. More me to be warned as a MP for telling the truth to the public.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19177	I consider these statements to be the speaker of the National Assembly an insult to the dignity of the National Assembly, and I give you a second warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19178	I can never insult you, and that's for sure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19179	People's MP, I'm not the National Assembly, I said you've offended...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19180	You are one of the members of the National Assembly, only equal to everyone here in this National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19181	That's right.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19182	Franco Simatović Franki, Milorad Lukovic Legion, Mihalj Kertes...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19183	People's MP, after two warnings and disrespect of the Rules of Procedure, I take your word. The word of the Messenger of the people has been taken from you. (Petar Jojic: I attach this text and please attach it, and if you do not, let it be in the stenogram. ) National MP Petar Jojic adds a written discussion on the amendment to member of the 46th People's MP Veroljub Arsic. (National MP Petar Jojic, from the place: I apologize, Stanko Sobotić Cane, I apologize to the man publicly. Does anyone want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 39, against 99, two abstentions, 54, a total of 194 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 47th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. National MP Dragan Colic adds a written explanation of his amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 33, against 109 abstentions, there were no 52 votes, a total of 194 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Miroljub Veljkovic submitted to the 48th amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 39, against 108, the abstentioned were not voted 46, a total of 193 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Bozidar Vujic submitted to the 51st amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. National MP Bozidar Vujic adds a written explanation of his amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 36, against 102 abstentions, there were no 55 votes, a total of 193 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Zlatan Jovanovic submitted to the 54th amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19184	For 29, there are no abstentions against 111, 56 did not vote, a total of 196 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Ljubomir Kragovic submitted to the 55th amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee has not adopted this amendment. The applicant of the amendment will submit his discussion. Is anyone else answering for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 29, against 117 abstentions, there were no 53, a total of 199 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 56th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The MP can contribute to the discussion. Is anyone else answering for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 34, against 118, there were no abstentions, no 47, a total of 199 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A member of the 57th Amendment was submitted by MP George Mamul. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word has the People's Messenger George Mamula.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19185	I don't understand why the government didn't accept this amendment. It is said that, first of all, the name of the crime is changed, it is the cause of a car accident and that an artificial sentence is thrown out, which does not make any sense, which says – a traffic participant who does not adhere to traffic rules (and now is the sentence) and thus threatens public traffic to endanger the life or body of people or property of a larger volume (there ends an inserted sentence), and hence, there is a slight physical injury or property damage of more than 120,000 dinars... I don't think this sentence that's inserted has any meaning and without it, the sentences of the verdict will be clearer and the arguments will be clearer. Therefore, the member should read - a traffic participant on roads that do not comply with traffic regulations, thereby causing a car accident, resulting in a second occurrence of mild physical injury or property damage of more than 120,000 dinars being punished by prison. So, if the consequences arise, then you don't have to stress that there will be first abstract consequences, then concrete consequences. So I suggest you respect this amendment. And I'm also asking to establish the quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19186	I ask the MPs to insert identification cards into the MPs to determine the quorum. I'm guessing we have a quorum. Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 85, against 78, there were no abstentions, no 15, a total of 178 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the meeting of the Committee on Justice and Administration, MP Milan Markovic withdrew the amendment to Article 58, amendment to Article 59 and amendment to Article 60. The MPs Dusan Budishin, Djordje Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic, as well as the MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, submitted together to the 61st amendment. A representative of the government and the committees in charge accepted this amendment, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Members of the 61st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Deretic and Zoran Novakovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word is made by MP Jovan Deretic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19187	Dear listeners, we have submitted an amendment to increase the sentence for high treason. The issue of the definition of high treason is very broad and it can be not only, as stated here in the bill, the collapse of the constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia or the threat of national territory. This type of crime can cause tens of thousands of human victims. If we've predicted a 40-year sentence for murder, I believe that for high treason it should be a sentence of at least 20 years. So I ask my colleagues to increase this sentence for high treason according to the amendment we have proposed.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19188	Does anyone else sign up for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 41, against 105, abstention one, they didn't vote 23, a total of 170. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Dusan Budishin, Gjorge Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic withdrew the amendment to Article 62. It's a bill of law. Also, MPs Dusan Budishin, Gjorge Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic withdrew the amendment to Article 63. The 64th Amendment was filed by the People's MP, George Mamul. The Prime Minister and the Committee on Justice and Administration have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MPs Dusan Budishin, Gjorge Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic withdrew the amendment to Article 65. It's a bill of law. Members of the 66th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dusan Budishin, Djordje Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic. A representative of the government and the committees in charge accepted this amendment, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Both MPs Dusan Budishin, Djordje Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic, as well as MP Petar Jojic, submitted to the 67th amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. (National MP Petar Jojic attached the explanation. ) Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 37, against 108, the abstentions are gone, no vote is 30, a total of 175. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 68th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dusan Budishin, Djordje Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic. A representative of the government and the committees in charge accepted this amendment, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Parliamentarians Dusan Budishin, Djordje Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic submitted together to the 70th amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word has been made by MP Petar Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19189	The Democratic Party of Serbia's amendment to article 70 reads: "Article 70 is deleted. The bill of law." This article proposes the introduction of a new criminal act - return (Article 237a). Incrimination is not justified, especially since the law knows the crime of drug trafficking (Article 128). Serbia's criminal law. If, then, the return consists of some form of treatment or providing medical assistance from an unprofessional person, it is qualified as an adjudication. If returning is not about treatment, but about other actions aimed at obtaining illegal property benefits, there is a criminal act of fraud. If there's not one or the other part, then there could be a word of a misdemeanor. The acts of return, legally observed, are extremely imprecise. There's no telling what's involved in divination, return or other magic. For example, would there be a criminal act of return when looking at a cup or palm, of shutting down coal, of giving various grasses to be placed under a pillow, of assembling a horoscope? It is unsustainable that a more severe punishment is provided for a crime of return than for surging (for returning - a prison sentence of up to three years, and for overpriceding - a prison of up to one year and fines), although surlying is undoubtedly more socially dangerous. We therefore propose the adoption of this amendment, and since the vote in favour of the previous amendment of the Democratic Party of Serbia showed by the electronic system that there are about 160 present MPs, and then the result has appeared that it voted 175, I would ask for a re-determination of the quorum and I would ask all MPs to identify themselves to determine exactly how many there are, so that some famous votes do not reject the amendment. So I'm looking for a quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19190	National MP Petar Cvetkovic asked for a quorum. I'm asking Members of Parliament to insert identification cards into the MPs' units. I'm guessing we have a quorum. National MP Branislav Ivkovic, president of the SPS parliamentary group, spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19191	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs of the Socialist Party of Serbia will support the amendment of the Democratic Party of Serbia, but with a very different explanation. We estimate that this new member of 237a, which covers the area of return, essentially the legislator of the law, the Ministry of Justice, has only scratched the surface of a terrible problem increasingly present in the lives of Serbian citizens, as well as Yugoslavia. That's the problem with mental manipulation. A problem that you didn't want to talk about here when there was a Bill on the Protection of Juveniles, where we, respecting the legal code that the Criminal Law only proposed criminal measures, but we urinated and suggested that the law on criminal acts necessarily introduces the concept of mental manipulation as a serious crime. I would just like to remind those who like to hang out with Europe, because they think that bigger Europeans than others in opposition parties, that French legislation and the French assembly in the spring of 1999, while bombing Yugoslavia, brought the notion of mental manipulation as a serious crime, punishable by five to eight years of imprisonment and large financial expenditures. The notion of mental manipulation is being updated, unfortunately, by the unfortunate events of St. Sava High School in Belgrade, which have also attracted the attention of the Serbian public, as well as the fact that the Black Rose sect is ten houses away, in a phenomenally renovated three-story building, so that man asks the question - who has the money to renovate at the corner of Milos Pocerc and Knez Milosa such an object and who hides those sects so much in this society. Who puts those who fight those sects on a pillar of shame? Therefore, our view is that this area of return is not adopted and therefore we ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia to effectively, as early as next week, propose a comprehensive area that will ultimately provide the state and state bodies with full legislative support to act against the sects and their activities in the areas of Serbia and Yugoslavia. The drug area is certainly an equally big problem, but on the one hand the easier problem, because in the legislative sense and activities of the MUP, judicial authorities, health services and specialised health institutions are still something done in this country and there is a basis for action to combat drug abuse. However, the basis for the fight against the sects absolutely does not exist, and that is what we all, first of all as parents, must be aware of. We will vote against this article, and for this amendment, which is written here, with a request that the Ministry of Justice, as far as next week, effectively process the scope of mental manipulation as a criminal offence and provide a basis for society and the state to act against great evil. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19192	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 95, against 80, with two abstentions, not three, in all 180 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment to Article 70. Members of the 71st Amendment were submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic. Please, according to the Rules of Procedure, MP Srdjan Petrovic, deputy president of the DOS parliamentary group - Democratic Party of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19193	Although the amendment that we have proposed has passed, there has been another abuse of cards in the fifth row and in rows at the end of the right, so I ask the service to pick up cards that are extra in the benches. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19194	Members of the 71st Amendment were submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want to contribute to the discussion? No, I don't. ) Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Here's a word from MP Branislav Ivkovic, president of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19195	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment is the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic... I apologize if you would allow me to speak. Mr Tomislav Nikolic proposed an amendment to delete a member proposing to delete Article 238. The legislator proposes to delete Article 238, which reads: "A religious representative who abuses the freedom to do religious affairs or religious rituals for the purpose of opposing the constitutional order will be sentenced to prison for up to three years". We live in a country that is defined as a civil state and that is the great value of an existing constitutional solution, which respects that we are in a multinational and multi-confessional environment. However, all that was happening through the disintegration of the former Yugoslavia, the secession of Slovenia and Croatia, points to the technology in which representatives and preachers of individual religions took separatist and secessionist hoods and pushed the people into it. The abolition of such a member would absolutely mean encouraging extreme forces in certain faiths in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, which would realize that their hands were freed, their wings, and trampled on those attitudes that contributed to much of what was happening in the former Yugoslavia's space, and unfortunately, we have witnessed in the last 10 to 15 years, and in the area of the present Yugoslavia. Therefore, the Socialist Party of Serbia supports the amendment not to delete Article 238. We believe that this provision should remain a reminder to extremists in certain creeds, not to go that way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19196	Is anyone else answering for word on this amendment? Here you go, replica. Right on line, MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19197	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here is an indirect way that at least one amendment of the Serbian Radical Party can explain. This time it is about us fighting for different types of equality through changes and additions to the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia, and it seems to me that the legislator and most of the majority who support him here in the National Assembly are not ready at this hour to say pop, and the Bobba Bob. I believe that freedom of religion is guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and has been fully implemented, until the end, in the conduct of power towards various confesions, especially according to the recognised churches that exist on the ground of Serbia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. If that is the case and if the church, each recognized church, is free to perform religious rituals with its believers without State interference, if the French bourgeois revolution has separated the state from the church, there are frameworks in which the church must fit. These are state frameworks and every citizen of the Republic of Serbia has the same rights and obligations, regardless of whether the general, priest, professor, worker. No one has the right to use faith for the purposes of a punishable law, so why would this right be allowed to someone who passes faith on to believers who belong to his church? The member has never, until today, been abused by authorities, any authorities elected in the Republika Srpska Assembly. There is no basis for its abolition. If the priests had filled their prisons, if they had been persecuted like the time after World War II, if they had been visited by young party workers, I would have accepted that. No, they're not. But on the other hand, they used that freedom too much and there was an abuse of freedom. Especially in the case of priests who in the second language, and not in the official languages of the Republic of Serbia, bring faith to their believers and who poisoned the blood of young generations, perhaps even so much that it will be many years before we realize that every man is equal and that by birth none of us achieves any privilege. This, it seems suspicious, why the state right now, just now, when it fits into some European standards (but only some, and some consciously avoid), why it is now liberating from any persecution of people who abuse faith, not those who confess faith, not those who carry faith, but people who abuse faith. It's a sign that the state doesn't want to defend itself against any enemy, so even now it's going to create an additional enemy for itself. This amendment should be accepted, and the law should be rejected. I think we'll get to that.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19198	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 56, against 107, the abstention of four, was not voted 17, out of 184 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 72nd amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Is anyone answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 41, against 116, the abstentions were not voted 28 out of 185 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 73rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dusan Budishin, Djordje Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Do any of the applicants of the amendment want a word? There's a word from MP Dusan Budishin.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19199	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, as we said in the discussion in principle, this bill contains a lot of ambiguity, a lot of inaccuracies, and we've pointed to everything that's against the constitution. I especially stress this because I don't want to, like last time, me and my colleague, Mr. Cvetkovic, to be misunderstood, because if we're against the criminal act of return, then we're told we're for the psychic Zork. It's another nice setup, so the public will know what it's all about. We gave legal reasons, and because someone doesn't understand, let them learn. This is a member of 244a, a new position - the DSS is not in principle against the introduction of this new member, but as I said a moment ago, it is very imprecise that member. We tried to amend it so that it reads: "The official person who, using his position or authority, abuses the face of the deprived of liberty.... ", therefore: "abuse the face of the deprived of freedom, for the purpose of meeting its sexual needs" - this is much more logical, because it is clearly stated what the involvement of committing a crime and who is a passive subject of that crime is; in order to be properly accused and tried for this act, then it must be explained as this. If it remains a style of style, (repeat, extremely imprecise), which is given in the bill, then we will have additional difficulties. Every law needs to be as clear as possible and as short as possible. It'll be easier to apply. This seems unclear to the promoter, as it is not clear to him that, with the DSS amendments, this law has a whole other face than what the Proposer wanted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19200	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 69, against 112 abstentions, there were no three votes, out of 184 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 73 of the amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Is anyone answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) (Employee Milorad Mircic contributed to the discussion on this amendment. I put the amendments to the vote. For 40, against 120, the abstentions were not voted 24 out of 184 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 73rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Deretic and Zoran Novakovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word has been made by MP Zoran Novakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19201	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this member, for the sake of the public, is told not to take measures to prevent the sexual abuse of persons deprived of liberty, this member is proposed. It is true that it is undefined here, and in that I agree with the previous speaker, who is the perpetrator here, whether it implies an official person, and if it is, it is an exceptional lack of such a member, but nevertheless: an official who does not take the necessary measures or actions to prevent or prevent the sexual abuse of persons deprived of liberty – means those who are in prisons, or at the service of the fines, under the proposal of this law -- "will be punished by imprisonment from six months to five years". Whether this is about abuse of the official position of the official or the official enables another criminal or another participant in this kind of abuse and crime, the sentence is, in our opinion, small and our amendment is proposed from five to ten years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19202	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 41, against 116, the abstention of four, was not voted 22, out of 183 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 75th Amendment was submitted by MP Lazar Marjanski. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The MP will contribute to the discussion. Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 44, against 121, two abstentions, 19 did not vote, out of 186 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Stevan Kesejic submitted to the 76th amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The MP will contribute to the discussion. Does anyone else sign up for a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 45, against 127, there are no abstentions, 15 did not vote, out of 187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 78th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dusan Budishin, Djordje Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic. A representative of the Government, the Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee have adopted this amendment. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Members of the 79th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted jointly by MPs Dusan Budishin, Djordje Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic, as well as by the MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. National MP Gordana Pop - Lazic will contribute to the discussion. Are any of the applicants of the amendment applying for a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger George Mamula.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19203	The provision of this article provides for the possibility of a milder punishment of accomplices for certain crimes against official duty if they reveal the act, the perpetrator or the organiser or prevent the execution of the act. This is unconstitutional and against the law. Don't let us be novices in criminal law. By regulating the limits of criminal responsibility and criminality of accomplices, the Criminal Law of Yugoslavia prescribes that the co-executor, instigator or assistant may be freed from punishment and less punished, if they voluntarily prevent the execution of the crime, not if after the act they reveal the crime. He's been in criminal law for 150 years. Now we're making up something new that's nowhere to be found. A provision on criminal liability limits of accomplices enters the general part of the Criminal Code, whose provisions also oblige the Republic of Criminal Law. "The provisions of the general part of this law apply to all criminal acts determined by federal laws and laws of the Republic" - Article 7. The criminal law of Yugoslavia. As for that article on the 3rd of the morning, amendments to federal criminal law did not provide for a 40-year sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19204	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? Minister of Justice and Local Self-Government, Mr Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19205	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is an incorrect finding that the provision of the proposed member is anti-constitutional and incorrectly interpreted the provision of a general part of the Criminal Law of the SRJ, which provides only for frameworks for the mitigation of penalties, which even goes beyond those frameworks in its individual parts, thereby automatically denying what is proposed by the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-26-0.u19206	I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 95, against 86, the abstentions, did not vote 7, out of the 188 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The People's MP Alexander Vukic submitted to the 80th Amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Is anyone applying for this amendment? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 44, against 116, the abstentions were not voted 26, out of 186 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 80th Amendment, with correction, were jointly submitted by MPs Dusan Budishin, Djordje Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic. A representative of the Government, the Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee have adopted this amendment. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 81st amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Is anyone applying for this amendment? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 41, against 130, the abstentions were not voted 18, out of 189 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular and the decision on amendments, does the Proposer's representative want the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. I put to the vote the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia in general. For 131 against 56, the abstentions were not voted by two, a total of 189 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted most of the votes the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia. This concludes today's work. We'll continue tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the First Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their cards into the parliamentary units. I figure we have a quorum and we can keep working. I would like to inform you that they are prevented from attending the following MPs: Miroslav Krisodulo, Stevan Lilić, Dragan Jocic, Branko Ružić, Sinisa Mitrović, Nenad Lemajic, Miroslav Markicevic, Ratimir Svirčević, Zoran Boskovic, Branislav Pomorički, Ljubodrag Grbić, Kermeci Karolj, Torde Laslo and Milos Lučić; in the morning Bosko Ristić and Milos Radivojčević. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. Also, according to members 83 and 84. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I invited representatives of the People's Movement "Resistance" and representatives of the Association of Families of Kidnapped and Missing Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija to this session. We continue to work on the agenda and move on to the 7th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a decision to suspend the validity of the Interim Executive Council of the Autonomous Region of Kosovo and Metohija (Vojislav Seselj, from the post: By Business. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is made by MP Vojislav Seselj, president of the SRS parliamentary group.
