ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25216	I ask the MPs to take their seats to begin the work of the Fifth Session in the pre-day part of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, today's session, by application, 102 MPs attend. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that we have a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the following MPs will be absent: Milan Radulović, Slobodan Pavlovic, Jožef Kasa, Petar Misic, Predrag Stojanović, Branimir Trajkovic, Jelena Milenković, Laslo Torde, Miroslav Markicevic, Miodrag Stamenkovic, Branko Gligorić, Dusan Budishin, Arsen Kurjački. The National MP Slavica Tatomir will be late for today's meeting and will be left with the afternoon work of the National MP Miomir Tadic, and from the afternoon part of the National MP Neda Arneric. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend: President and Vice-President of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. Also, according to members 83 and 84. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that the president of the National Assembly of Ms Natasa Micic invited representatives of the Centre for Free Elections and Democracy, representatives of the People's Movement of Resistance, representatives of the National Democratic Institute, representatives of the Association of University Teachers and Teachers of Serbia -- the Kolubara Section and the representative of the USAID. I welcome the guests present on behalf of the National Assembly. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the scope of funds and the participation of municipalities and cities in the income tax and turnover tax in 2003. YOU have received the bill of law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Marijan Rističević, joint MPs Đura Lazić, Ljubisa Maravić and Sreten Mitrović, joint MPs Bojan Kostreš and Novica Đurašković, joint MPs Vladan Radovanović and Jakov Stamenković, joint MPs Dragan Marković, Petar Petrović, Milos Lukić and Adam Urošević, joint MPs Dusan Cvetković, Radojko Petrić, Nebojko Petrović, Nebojša Jović, Hranislav Perić, Jovan Todorović and Joca Arsić, joint MPs Dusan Cvetković, Radojko Petrović, Nebojša Zvić Jović, Hranislav Perić, Joca Arsić and Ljubomir Mucic, joint MPs Miroslav Mić, Natić, Radović, Božović Zaljić Zaljić, Zaljić, Privić, Privić and Privić. National MPs Vladan Radovanovic and Rakov Stamenkovic, in writing, withdrew amendments that were submitted individually and jointly to Articles 2 and 3. It's a bill of law. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you, according to Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of the debate is in principle for parliamentary groups for 5 hours and since you are familiar with the time available to individual parliamentary groups, I ask the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups to, if they have not already done so, submit a list of MPs in a order of application for a word until the time necessary for other rapporteurs to contact the Rules of Procedure under this law. The breach of the Rules of Procedure, MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25217	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, Article 100(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia say that the dignity of the National Assembly must always be respected. True, it is mentioned that MPs must respect the dignity of the National Assembly, so I call on you now to respect the dignity of the National Assembly and not to start a debate on this agenda point until an authorised representative of the bill's proposal, i.e. Minister of Finance and Economy Bozidar Djelic, appears. It is incomprehensible that you begin the debate on one item of the agenda, and you can see for yourself that the proposing representative has not honored us and is not attending the session of the National Assembly when discussing this item of the agenda. I find that there are no conditions for discussion in this agenda. The condition is not only for MPs to be in the O.R., but also for the government to be in the O.R. It's the one who gets the word first, if maybe you didn't know the one who gets the word whenever he asks. This is the one that should now give us the reasons why MPs should vote for the bill, to explain it, to say now because of the many amendments that have arrived on this bill why some municipality has received a smaller percentage, why some city, as it is possible within 10 days, that cities could be satisfied with less income from sales taxes than was the original proposal, where these funds went and I believe that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, if the democratic assembly should never launch a debate on the draft law tabled by the government unless the sittings are attended by a representative of the Government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25218	Is the MP requesting a meeting of the Administrative Board to declare this injury? (Tomislav Nikolic: I see that you do not want to talk about this at all. ) Does the MP wish to make a statement to the Administrative Committee, since we must establish it in a stenogram before I give you an explanation for which the President is responsible, or chair. I find that the MP does not want a word to be said about the meeting of the Administrative Committee. The violation of the Rules of Procedure relating to the dignity of the National Assembly was interpreted in a statement by the MP and an inapplicable provision of the Rules of Procedure. The condition that a session of the National Assembly was held was that there was a business quorum for work and that all other persons invited to the National Assembly’s sessions did not constitute quorum. I agree that it is a beautiful and unwritten custom for the competent and invited to be present, but it is not the subject of the Rules of Procedure, and the MP knows very well. Since the proposaler's representative is not present, do the committee's rapporteurs want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word is wanted by MP Jovan Todorovic, the mandated president of the SPS parliamentary group, for both laws, for this and for a law that is like the 6th item of the agenda. An apology to the MP, therefore, given that due to the stenogram, I must say that according to Article 136(1) of the Rules of Procedure, I'm opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in principle. (11.00 hours)
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25219	Mrs. Comic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, on behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, I am authorised to present to this House the reasons why the Socialist Party of Serbia cannot accept the bill. I must say, even if we were able to accept some of the provisions of this law or the schedule of the funds proposed by it, the fact that Mr Djelic's finance minister is not present in this assembly would be forced to also reject the law. I think it is really unserious that the proposaler of funds allocated to municipalities, in order to achieve the functions of local self-government, which should be taken into account that public spending, created through local self-government, is a significant part of a social product that is spent in public consumption in a country like Serbia. More than 60 billion dinars are being talked about, and we are also talking about the total budgets of local self-government, which according to the Ministry of Finance's views in 2003, as well as the schedule of 8.3 billion dinars according to the criteria contained in the Law on Local Self-Government. First of all, I want to remind all of you and the public that in the adoption of the Law on Local Self-Government, in the part which primarily refers to the criteria under which part of the traffic tax collected or part of the income tax, which takes place on the territory of local self-government, will be returned to the budgets of these local self-government, we have very serious objections, above all, regarding the criteria applied to the allocation of these funds. Unfortunately, the first and now second proposed allocations of these funds talk about the lack and lack of these criteria, and we should take care of the unequal development of our municipalities throughout Serbia. It is in this bill that this development criterion seems to me, therefore, in the proposal for a budget allocation, to be applied on a flat-rate basis in the largest number of municipalities. The fact is that there has been a growth of funds, which will return to congregations from 6 billion to 8.3 billion, but the question is why we did not apply some objective criteria of development, better put forward the lack of development of certain environments, and then, from the point of view of the Ministry of Finance, were more betrayed in supporting these local self-government to overcome the obvious problems they have in the functioning of self-government as such. The largest number of municipalities received nominally more funding, but there are four municipalities in this proposal that received fewer funds than it was in 2002, and it will be interesting to explain to us that this could have happened despite all the parameters used here to calculate part of the funds, belonging to local self-government, that some municipalities such as Loznica, such as Kučev, such as Velika Gradišče, could have received less funds than it was in 2002, and for example Loznica received 7.2 million less funds, Kučevo received 2.7 million less funds, and Velika Gradište 1.6 million less funds than it was according to the same criteria in 2002. About the same level or with a slight increase, we have four municipalities: Indjiju, Knic, Rekovac and Sokobanju. If the parameters related to growth of the 5% gross social product and inflation are applied, with the one to be transferred from December 2002 to 2003, of 14.1%), then it is really pointless to establish such a proposal in which these municipalities receive less funds or receive, approximately, at the same level as in 2002. What can be seen at first sight from this proposal is that there has been a redistribution of funds for the benefit of cities. Of course, as an SPS MP, I don't mind that cities get more funding, because objectively there are problems that must be solved in these cities, but I am really against it going to harm or burden a few municipalities that I have listed in this case, and most of the other municipalities that are on this list for the distribution of the funds in question. In total, some billions and 200 million dinars are projected to increase cities for 2003. If we know that the total increase in all municipalities is 3.3 billion, then it is clear that all municipalities in Serbia have an increase, surrounded by around 2.1 billion dinars in 2003. When we talked about criteria, then we also said that the criterion of development within itself must involve much more factors and elements than was proposed by law and more than is applied in this proposal. I am fully convinced that the ministry did not take into account the state of the economy and economy in many or most of the environments. For example, the number of employees does not play any role. Also, he doesn't play a number of unemployed workers. Furthermore, some criteria applied in terms of, say, the number of schools, the number of schools, children's kindergartens, etc. are also kind of cemented in the current state, so it turns out that those environments that, for example, have four secondary schools and so many wards, always need to receive approximately the same amount of real resources by the same criteria, and, let's say, ignore the fact that there are secondary schools, including primary schools, in which we have over 30 and even over 35 students, which is not in line with the criteria of primary and secondary education when it comes to the number of students. Those environments, which unfortunately have only one kindergarten, are given, according to the number of children in that kindergarten, an appropriate part of the funds, which does not take into account that the real need in many of these environments is that they have not one, but two, three or five kindergartens. Therefore, these criteria regarding the number of inhabitants who are potentially to use some means and for the equalisation of these services by the state to the citizens are not represented. For example, take the population criterion. We have a rather paradoxical situation that all municipalities came to have fewer residents in the financial year 2003 than in 2002. I just can't understand what data is really about. It's said that the data from the last list was used. The question is, how is this list implemented? What about people who are abroad, who here are very serious figures as an item and, above all, in terms of reducing the number of residents in certain municipalities. For example, you have a situation where the Municipality of Loznica, according to the 2002 data, had over 113,000 inhabitants, and today we have a criterion of 86,000 inhabitants. What happened to 27,000 citizens from the Loznica Municipality for this period? Also, the Ministry of Finance has found it appropriate to reduce funds to individual municipalities for the number of workers working abroad and for the number of members of their families, and I do not think that some circumstances go hand in hand with this way of identifying funds, because there are rare families that are fully composed abroad. The most common case is that here are women or children who go to school or use kindergarten, who use municipal infrastructure, who participate in creating a sales tax that is allocated as a refund of funds from the republican budget to individual municipalities. Next, what happened to the refugees? What happened to more than 10,000 refugees in the territory of the township, and we came to the conclusion that Loznica has 27,000 inhabitants less than it was in 2002 and, of course, significantly less resources than it was intended and than that, according to the number of inhabitants in that municipality, should be the case. I'll finish here the first part of the presentation, as I intend to hear from Mr. Minister. I hope he can explain some of the solutions to this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25220	The Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Bozidar Djelic, spoke. Minister, you've been criticised for being late, by the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25221	Madam Vice President, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I want to apologize. I was in the building, however, those who should have warned me that the session had begun, did not do so. I just want to apologize for not being here a few minutes earlier to give this preliminary ironing. I hope you'll let me do it now. Every time, I guess this is the third time that this law comes to the agenda of a respected home. We have a record division between, on the one hand, the necessity to ensure balance in the entire system of public finances between the resources available and the use of those funds. Of course, you won't mind me if at the moment of some debate, when those who had pressed green on the taster a few weeks ago to lift some sales taxes come and seek greater funding for their municipality, noting that there is some balance in public finances and that, if one budget for the Republic of Serbia is voted out, where one amount of funding is provided to provide funding for pensions, basic insurance, social security and a lot of what is in Serbia's budget, of course, we must always mention that once that amount of funds is provided, then there is not some other money left in some other place, but it is again those same citizens, this same economy that needs to finance public expenditure. That's why, before I go into the details of this law, I just want to point out that first thing. With the budget of the Republic of Serbia, which was voted last week, there was provided one level of funding for the budget, for the national level. We have in Article 2 one amount of funds which is also provided for the financing of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. It will surely suffer some changes when it comes, which is now certain, to the vote of the Constitutional Charter and the accompanying constitutional law. However, this means that in this balance of public income and public expenditure, we are talking about 11.3 billion dinars here, which is the amount that can be discussed and cannot be increased without reducing something and reducing the amount of income of another municipality or, in turn, to reduce the source of revenue for the Republic of Serbia's budget or for the SRJ. Therefore, I can say that a number of amendments cannot be accepted because he wants to share money that does not exist. We have to, if we want to change something in this debate, see what it is that needs to be reduced in the expenditures of the Republic or what it is that needs to be reduced in the expenditures of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, especially the military that draws most of the funds. I think it's clear in the debate that many leaders, and local self-government, will want to show concern for their local self-government. We also need to show concern for the SRJ, especially the military, our diplomacy and what you voted for just a few days ago, which is the budget of the Republic of Serbia. This is the first opening note, because in this debate it is often lost in sight. The second note, I would like to point out immediately at this introductory point, and I'm going to mention that again when we get to the digit here, we're only talking about 16.8% of the total income of local self-government. So, for the moment, when the debate comes, it seems like this is the total amount of local self-government income, that this is about the life and death of local self-government. I want things to come down to their real scale, which is that we're talking about 16.8% on the average of local self-government income. Today may be the best proof of what is a real fiscal decentralisation, I'm not talking here about the backbone of public finances at local level, of course, 16.8% of total income is an important item, but at moments, in this debate, I'm sure it's going to look like it. Looks like this is about being or not being for local self-government. That's just not true. Local self-government now has far more important sources, whether they are original, whether they share with the Republic, but that they have no limits whatsoever. Too often here, we focus on this famous rate, which is nothing, but the size of what is being carried out, which is being transmitted. It's just a technique. In no case should it be reduced, I would say, as a key point, because the rate (and it is again automatically something that you set, voting for the Republic of Serbia's budget last week), that rate is automatically lower, if for no other reason, at least because participation in the Federation's sales tax has been reduced from 25% to 18%, so that the rest of the funds, shared between the Republic of Serbia and the local self-government, is simply higher and thus the waste rate. Not to mention that we expect further progress from the highest tax in our fiscal system, so we are also reaching some lower rates on this element. I can't help but hide the surprise that for the third time, although it's clear to everyone here, that many leaders here, in this home, are always talking about that rate. It's nothing but an item. Let's talk about amounts, talk about the situation in the public finances of local self-government, and then we'll see that the situation is much better, incomparably better in local self-government finances than it was two years ago. Is it great -- it's not, whether progress at local level in public finances is greater, but at the level of the Republic -- yes, absolutely, and I'll try to prove it through a few facts right now, if we look at what is the current situation of public finances. Let me just finish the introductory notes, first of all, I want to say that we can't share some different money, that's a sales tax, that's a profit fund, that's some of the sizes that are set out in the balance sheet of public income and public expenditure. By voting the Republic of Serbia's budget, the participation of both the Republic and the Federation in these fiscal forms has been determined, so that we cannot talk in this debate about any increase in these funds, because, simply, we would then share money, which does not exist. We can't share twice the same money. The second thing, it seems to me that we don't need to turn this debate into essentially, or not be. There's no room here for Shakespeare anymore, thanks to fiscal decentralisation. I'm talking about 16.8% of total income. And finally, let us avoid some sort of demagogy form of a reduction in rate, which means nothing, except that what's reduced, as the Republic's participation, is now a larger source of funds, and therefore, by dividing it, that larger amount, then the rates are mechanically less. And not only that, that fiscal form gives a lot more money than before, and that rate is even less. Let's look at the amounts and, I'd like to get into the core of things right now, see what money we're talking about here, how this law came about, and why, ultimately, of course, appeal to you to vote this law in this form. If we look at the evolution of public finances at a local level, I'd just like to mention a few figures. I think it's quite indicative to compare 2000 and 2002, and then to look at what the evolution of public finances is planned at a local level for 2003, of which this is just one small part. In 2000, an income plan i.e. The expenditure of local self-government - we have one healthy thing to maintain at all costs, which is that there is no deficit at local level - we had a plan for 11.1 billion dinars of income i.e. It's a waste. The results were 12.3 billion dinars. That means that by 10% there was a greater achievement than what was planned. In 2002, i.e. This year, the total amount of funds is 45.3 billion dinars, and the achievement will be 55.7 billion dinars this year, which means that the performance index is 26% this year. Only a few days ago, honourable MPs, you voted to rebalance the Serbian Republic's budget and you noticed there was no greater achievement in that budget. On the contrary, if we look at the revenues, they're about 800 million dinars less than they're supposed to be. Here we are talking about achieving the revenues of local self-government this year, which are 26% higher than planned. Compare these two sizes and you will see that in the last two years, of all segments of public finances, the local finances have progressed the fastest. If we look at real growth, some will say -- but what is the effect of inflation, then we see that in the realization, if we compare 2000 and 2002, we see that the achievement in the nominal amount is 4.5 times greater, the index is 454%, and in real growth we have very significant progress. As for the planned funds and the funds achieved, we have a real increase in 2002, if we compare it to 2000, it is 102%. The real amount, compared to inflation, of local self-government has twice as much money as they had two years ago, and that's a fact we can't forget in this debate. Those who run local finances have twice as much real assets this year as they had two years ago. I ask you not to forget that fact in this debate, because when you get to a few dozen million dinars more or less, forget that bigger picture. This is the most recent example and evidence that in public local finances where we all know well, and especially you, who are often local leaders, that the needs are enormous, that even these public finances can't solve the accumulated problems we have, and that's simply the expression of our country's collapse at the local level. But twice as much real money at the local level this year, when you pass it at 2000, it's the most beautiful proof that fiscal decentralization, what was mentioned at the outset, is the fact and evidence that those who run for our citizens and public finances at the local level, have much more resources to solve the daily problems of our citizens than it was two years ago. Another thing I'd like to mention is that if you look at unit funding, this law represents 11.3 billion dinars of funds, but if we compare it to the total amount of funds, which is 67.3 billion dinars, the percentage for next year, then we see that it's that 16.8% of the total. Out of the total of 67.3 billion dinars, 28.1 billion dinars of original income are foreseen, 27.9 billion dinars of paid income, beyond any limit, and when we talk about the distribution of sales taxes, when it comes to this law, forgets very quickly that percentage of turnover tax, divided without any restrictions, 8, 10 12% or 15%, as far as Belgrade is concerned, and then we focus on this additional part. We simply see here that fiscal decentralisation means what is possibly the subject of discussion today and what is the subject of those bile debates that we have, which is only 16.8% of the total income of local self-government, on average. So there is no exaggeration in what is said about it - what happens in case the funds don't increase? When we talk about this amount of funding, I'd like to remind ourselves, after all, what kind of philosophy was behind one of these laws, because it seems to me that year after year it's lost a little bit of the meaning of these funds. These funds, if you look at the explanation -- why is there this law -- they're there to balance development, to help those local self-governments, which are in a more difficult situation. That is why, speaking of the resources we are talking about here today, we can't help but remind ourselves that there are criteria behind this House that this House voted on, and by voting for the Law on Local Self-Government and a few months ago. So behind these figures, there is no arbitrary executive authority, but there are criteria that you specified when you passed the Law on Local Self-Government, I would just like to point out here that key definitions are just the number of inhabitants of that municipality, and of course this year we have the effects of the census, and they have shown that the situation has changed in some local self-government. I'm sure we'll talk about it a lot, but the fact is that a number of municipalities have fewer residents today than 10 years ago. The figures we had in years, from that previous list, to today, were derived. It was viewed according to the original figure and some estimates of the rate of growth and decline, and some figures occurred. This time, thanks to the list that was implemented this year, we have figures that are real on the local level. I know that we're going to talk a lot about, that these figures can't express complete reality, I know that there are some local self-government where the number of refugees, further displaced persons, changes the situation, and already the predecessor who was behind this speaker pointed out that there are among these residents and some, I mean, those who are abroad. Of course, no statistics are perfect, but today, thanks to this list, we have a much more realistic picture of how many residents there are in every local self-government. As a result, we have a fairer way of deploying these funds. The second criterion is the number of departments and the number of objects in primary and secondary education. It shows what the priority is, what we're talking about. Finally, the number of children, including direct childcare, as well as the number of childcare units. There it is, it seems to me one of the right criteria of the threat to what is most important to us, which is to allow the normal development of young generations. Here we have additional criteria, very important, the surface, and how important it is for some of our municipalities, especially in the east of our country, i.e. It's the population density, and here we have effects on some of the resources that are necessary for the transport of children and things like that. Of course, the last one, but surely the least important thing is the degree of development. Thanks to these criteria, there are some resources. I can say, of course, I expect there to be a lot of words about it today, we had on the basis of these criteria, irrefutable and simple, applying what you voted for and one effect, and it was financing infrastructure in some cities, in Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis and Kragujevac, all of which required additional funding. That's how we came to this volume of funds, i.e. Not to the extent, but to the redistribution that exists in it. Of course, we can, I hope we'll talk about it when it comes to debate, is this redistribution between municipalities, or cities, the one that's right? We are at the moment when this item of the agenda, removed from the agenda a few weeks ago, and as requested by one number and MP groups and MPs, carried out further findings. I thank this time during the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities, she organised a very quick broad debate, and it seems to me that there were about 40 local leaders and they all came. I think that, at that very comprehensive discussion, as well as those countless bilateral contacts we had with the local self-government leaders, we came up with a good bill of law. The cities, according to the original draft, have reduced the volume by some 180 million dinars, according to what was the original draft source of financing for the Republic, and the Republic has made an additional effort of 180 million dinars, so according to these criteria, another 360 million dinars have been redeployed to various local self-governments. I would like to say the same if we look at this amount, don't forget, honourable Members of Parliament, that there is one item in the budget of the Republic of Serbia that means additional funds for local self-government. As we have shown in the previous two years, the government of the Republic of Serbia will know that it intervenes where the situation is particularly difficult, or where there are some disasters, where some fractures occur. We have in the Republic of Serbia's budget an opportunity to intervene, in case there is a very difficult situation at local level. That's where I'd like to conclude, of course, as local self-government leaders and that's a large number of you, it's hard not to expect you to show particular concern for your local environment. It is, not only normal, it is noble, but I would like to point out that in the balance of public expenditures and expenditures, we cannot share twice the same taxes. So this volume of funds we have, that's 11.3 billion dinars, can't be increased. On the other hand, I'd like to point out that it's only 16.8% of the total, and so we're showing that we have one real fiscal decentralisation here. Finally, public finances at the local level, it is in real terms twice this year, than two years ago, it is the segment of public finances that has grown the most this year by a quarter, the revenues of local self-government are higher than planned, and Serbia's budget is the same as planned. And we see there in a dozen local self-governments, almost everything, they also have rebalancing because their incomes are higher, and that's good. So I'm just asking not to fall into a form of demagogy, to talk about rates that are nothing else, but just one derived item, but to look at the reality of the digits. Here we will see that this budget that allows for one growth, if we compare it according to what the funds for last year were, this is a growth of 21% according to what the funds are planned for implementation, for this year, real growth for next year is 6% and this is still growth faster than the growth of the Republic of Serbia's budget. Let's not forget, we still have that member who voted on one amendment this year, that is, in case the transport tax framework is transferred, it will be shared 50-50 between the local self-government and the budget of the Republic of Serbia. I have also noted then, I will also point out here, that this is not the most just way to divide the transition of that framework because, as the practice has shown us this year, if you leave that transition to the framework, then local self-governments that have a stronger economic base are favored again. Let me tell you a few figures, this year, Belgrade has reached some 900 million dinars, and Novi Sad 500 to 600 million dinars, and I have urged you to accept a different way of sharing, but of course, it was one amendment where everything was green, you all voted for that amendment, and this year you share that money in the same way. That's why it's left the same way. I would point out the same thing here, it's a very important member who introduces a regressive right, and you'll see that for those local self-governments who want to finance some capital issues and who get a guarantee, that is. a sovereign guarantee from the Republic of Serbia, that for these, and only of course, for these municipalities, there is so-called. a regressive right and it would be wrong for them to come up with additional funds without paying back the debt as it is signed, and it would not be correct, solidarity and therefore there is one member where it is said - that if they do not settle their debts, this amount of funds will be reduced so much, and that is how fiscal discipline is introduced and strengthened. To conclude, with these 11.3 billion dinars, with significant growth, real growth of 6% of volume, we're also going to increase the public finances of local self-government for the third year in a row. Twice as realistic there's money on the local level as it was two years ago. Fiscal decentralisation is a fact today, because only 17% of the resources come into some form of division, and in this case we have the possibility that in the event that the sales tax exceeds what is provided for in the scope, to share between the Republic and local self-government, I mean those funds, and half of it. This law, if you accept it, will allow local self-governments to continue to do what they have done in recent years. I would like to point out that the very purpose of this law is slowly lost. I think that, compared to discussions on the new constitution of the Republic of Serbia that will lead to some new redistribution, additionally, to ingerics between the national level, and there are provinces and local self-governments, I announce that a system of funding for local self-government should be re-assessed. In particular, we should look specifically through the figures, whether we have today in our public finance system an instrument that strengthens solidarity at the local level. This law does it, but it seems to me that his original mission or philosophy has faded a little bit. Of course, I urge you to vote in favour of this bill, but compared to the discussion of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, we will have to ask the question of solidarity again. It would not be celibate if we had in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, which breaks down to two and three speeds, where some local self-governments are growing very quickly, very quickly recover and finance projects especially in the domain of local infrastructure. We have a number of local self-governments that still have great difficulties. It is a very large and deep debate that I hope you will have in a working debate, especially when the time comes and most likely in the middle of the current year, hearing, attention and desire to reconsider the way solidarity should be strengthened in our country and through the system of local finances. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a good bill. It will allow you, as local leaders and your colleagues, to have even more resources to do what with growing success everywhere, independent of political membership at various levels, already have been doing much more in the last two years. Local self-government has more resources, and in order to have more opportunities, to solve more and more accumulated problems for our citizens. I simply think this law will be a significant step in that direction. Thank you for your attention and excuse me once again for this delay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25222	National MP Dragan Markovic, president of the SSJ parliamentary group, spoke. Any of the other presidents or representatives come forward for a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25223	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, the Soviet Union will not vote in favour of this bill, because a very small percentage is returning to municipalities and cities in Serbia, and from our known reasons for the other day, the Constitutional Charter will be adopted by the DOS majority. Serbia has an obligation to finance the joint state with 95%. The Soviet Union considers that it is concrete, and I will list several cities in Serbia, where we believe that a small percentage of them return to these cities and those municipalities. For the Batocina Municipality, 17.1%) is projected, and we propose to increase to 20.9%. The batocin is in a very difficult situation. The batocina also had a flood, and she didn't get the compensation promised. The economy in Batocina is in a catastrophic state. The Great Plan, which is projected for 7.7%, is replaced by a percentage of 12.1%. That's what we're proposing, because the Great Plan has a good geographical position, a good infrastructure, but the economy in the Great Plan is also in bad shape. In Despotovac municipality, 18.8% is predicted and is replaced by 25.4%. Despotovac municipality is also in a very difficult situation when it comes to economy. Nothing is done in Despotovac Municipality, and it is known that the budget is charged from taxes on earnings and sales taxes. If we look at the profit tax, and the earnings in Despotovac Municipality are very small and very few people living in Despotovac Municipality, those who are reportedly enrolled in the municipality, because there are a large number of citizens abroad. I'll also mention, there are two doctors in Despotovac Municipality when it comes to healthcare. One was in power before, and that's Dr Pavkovic. He has a private office. Another doctor who is now a candidate for the president of the municipality, is Dr Trifunovic, who opened a clinic in Despotovac Municipality. All citizens of Despotovac Municipality when they go to check-up, they have to pay each other a doctor. Mr. Pavkovic was the director of the House of Health when Racic was president of the municipality. Now, Mr. Racic will return to power in the Despotovac Municipality via Pavkovic. This second gentleman, Trifunovic, who is a doctor, rented a municipality building for 5,000 dinars, and it is known that one 20 square-square place in Despotovac costs 200 marks. So if the people of Despotovac Municipality get sick, they have to pay high prices for the review, when it comes to both offices. In the Despotovac municipality, the economy is in a catastrophic state and therefore we propose to increase from 18.8% to 25.4%. Also, we suggest that in Jagodina it rises from 5.6% to 10.1%. In Jagodina, the economy is not working, the cable factory has reduced production. We have now heard from Minister Vlahovic that there will be a restructuring at the cable factory. What does that mean? Dismissing the labor force. A trading firm called Morava, which employs 600 workers, has closed down over 50 locals, and they are now empty and no one works in those places. The people who worked at that firm were now out of a job. That's why we suggest that this higher percentage enter the budget, or return to Jagodina, because 5.6% is very low. Also, when it comes to the municipal budget in Jagodina, I must say, but some shops have been made there, only to ensure that the budget that is harmful, as this republican budget is harmful to Serbia, is voted on and there is intended to be paid for the veterinary station during 2003 for six million dinars and 3.500,000 for artificial insemination of cows. It is known that there are 3,000 cows in Jagodinska municipality and a half 600 dinars, that is 1,800,000. There's also a store between JUL and DOS. So there's JUL and the Democratic Party in Jagodina. Otherwise, JUL has now gone to this party that makes up the quorum, the party to the Socialist People's Party. So the citizens of Serbia know that there is no such trade, only here in this assembly. They must do so, for for example, that party represents some Life of Jovanovic - the Yellow that works in Elektro-distribution and will lose his job unless he accepts this budget. There's another SPS candidate, and I have to mention them, he made a store to give him a house in the so-called. To give him that house, some grandmother there, and he would accept that budget. I think if you don't spend that budget on purpose, and it's going to be spent on purpose, because it already has most of these two parties mentioned, that Jagodina should get a higher percentage, that percentage that comes back and comes to Jagodina. In Lapovo municipality, it's also a very difficult situation. The plan is 5.6%, and is replaced by a percentage of 12.1. That's what we're proposing, because it's known that Lapovo is doing nothing, and that a small percentage is planned to return to that municipality. 5.3% is planned in Paracino municipality. It is replaced by a percentage of 10.4. In Paracino, the economy was developed, while the cement company worked and until it was sold in the way it was sold. Now 50% of workers will lose their jobs in cement because they have offered them between 7,000 and 9,000 euros. The question arises how the 2003 budget will be charged if these workers no longer receive salaries as they have received so far. There used to be infrastructure spreading in this town. Now, all the money the owner makes, he's taking to his country, to Switzerland. As a result, the Pomoravski District, or Paracino, has no use for selling cement, and of these money, because some of these are also going to the 2003 budget to compensate for that deficit. Razanj Municipality - 45.8% planned and replaced by 53.1. We think Razanj has a good geographical position, along the highway. The economy doesn't work at all, a small number of workers are receiving workers in this municipality. We believe that this percentage should be increased, given that it has not been developed before. When it comes to the Rekovac municipality, 43.9% are scheduled there. We suggest that this percentage be replaced by a percentage of 51.3. The Rekovac municipality is a appendix for the former ruling party and for this one. In the municipality of Rekovac only works for the cable factory, which will reduce the number of workers when the labour law and privatisation are implemented. This community is in a very difficult situation and we suggest that the percentage increase, so that people can do something in that community. She's in the hilly neighborhood. When it comes to the Svilian, it's 9% planned, and we're proposing 12.9%. Maybe 9% would have been good and enough if Bija had stayed for the first man in the Svilinco. Since Bidge is gone, the economy has reduced production in this municipality. We propose to increase the percentage, because we know that a large number of citizens from this municipality work abroad and that the budget travels only from those who live and work in the municipality. Bija will come out of this game that cost you most of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25224	Ten minutes, MP. Will you use another 10 minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25225	Here I go. Turkey is projected 10%, we suggest 23.2. Here is the Minister for Local Self-Government, who I say needs to call for extraordinary local elections in Turkey, because more than 10 seats have been taken in Turkey. The chimpanzee community hasn't had a session in the last nine months. Nothing good happens. It's all stopped. There's no water, Mr. Minister. You started water in this year, just to tell the citizens -- it'll be in July of 2003. The citizens of Turkey don't want to wait for you anymore, that you promise...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25226	Eleven minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25227	I'm just finishing up. I don't want to use another ten minutes. I suggest you, Minister, call an emergency election. Let the citizens choose some people, maybe the same people, but they didn't lose their brains, so that Turkey has the right representatives and that something will be done in Turkey.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25228	The replica was reported by MP Dragan Tomic, deputy president of the Socialist People's Party parliamentary group. The basis for the replica is the mention of the party in the presentation of the previous speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25229	I'm using the replica base according to Article 97(2). I am aware that someone has the need to mention the name of Dr Miroslav Pavkovic, because the mention of Dr Miroslav Pavkovic has many blisters. It is the most serious candidate for the president of the Despotovac municipality, as is Gojko Velickovic's most serious candidate for the election in Leskovac. The way the previous discussion was used in the desire to talk about something other than what is true, and mentioning the name of Dobrivoja Budimirovica-Bidge in another context, Bija, who is a professor of local self-government, and I, in Despotovac, will show tonight when we explain what the policy of the Socialist People's Party is. The need for someone to introduce us as members of another party - we are not members of any of the false parties who call themselves the opposition group of parties, nor is it our desire to lead our policies in such a way, nor will anyone across our backs make trade in congregation cults. Whoever expressed the price, expressed the price, because he's worth so much. There is both morality and honesty and honesty and truth in front of these citizens. Therefore, I see clearly the response of individuals and the desire to trade with them further. This is what I'm telling all the Socialists in Serbia to know that what it says in DOS media, we're not. Read between the lines. Let's have our politics once. Don't let our politics promote other parties. They're breaking us to the maximum. Today is the time for the Socialists of Serbia to unite.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25230	The word has been issued by MP Dragan Markovic, as representative of the Serb Unity Party's parliamentary group. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25231	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I advertise Article 24 that one political party can only have one parliamentary club. This is where one fictitious political party of the Socialist People's Party appears, which did not go to the polls. I ask that if you respect this Rules of Procedure, you no longer give your word, because Slobodan Milosevic, or the former ruling party, stole votes, and you steal mandates. Is that legality and legitimacy? You no longer have the right to give your word to this fictitious parliamentary group, if you wish to honor this Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25232	Does the MP want a meeting of the Administrative Board, to declare his injury to the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) Since the Administrative Board is only meeting on Mondays and Fridays, with the approval of the President of the National Assembly, it will be scheduled today or tomorrow and will be made known about your objection. It is my duty to remind you that the formation of parliamentary groups has been arranged by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and that this last parliamentary group has been formed on this basis. The right to a replica, president of the Socialist People's Party parliamentary group, MP Branislav Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25233	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs to us sitting here in the MPs' benches, and we know what's behind the hills and what's going on under the grains, it's understandable the anger of the previous speaker. Regardless of all the information media and strength in this direction and financially-informed, the Socialist People's Party in the cities it considers its pasture is certainly receiving elections because it has high-quality and honorable candidates, both for the president of the municipality and for the council. As far as this issue is concerned, Madam Chairman, the Administrative Board has already taken office and made a clear decision, so you call it back without need. Because the anger of those who have been marginalized in previous events doesn't have to be the reason for the Administrative Committee to sit on the same subject again. The subject is next. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia has just challenged the constitutionality of Article 88. The law on the election of MPs, precisely because of MPs from the Democratic Party of Serbia, who in fact decided a few months ago to be an opposition to the coalition with which they came to power. As soon as the member is challenged and the public debate on the constitutionality of Article 88 is opened. The law on the election of MPs is clear that this article cannot be applied in 88. At the same time, I would like to remind you that there is a lawsuit at the Supreme Court of Serbia seeking the legality of the Sixth Emergency Congress's decisions. These are two key bases on which the MPs of the National Socialists remain MPs in the Republic Assembly, and according to all the members of the Rules of Procedures under which we are working, the Administrative Committee has already decided that we have had the right to form our own committee group. Anger I understand, marginalizing people and having the right to be angry.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25234	The word has a minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Rodoljub Sabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25235	Just a few cuts, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Dragan Markovic, head of the Serbian Unity Party parliamentary group, called me or actually mentioned two things to answer. One is why I don't call elections in Turkey. I assume Mr. Markovic made a lapus. I can't call the election. The local self-government election is being called by the president of the Serbian Parliament. I guess he meant why I'm not proposing to the government to introduce temporary measures. To be clear, because I, and fortunately the government in which I am a member, thinks that I should not introduce temporary measures into local self-government as soon as the minimum formal conditions are met, but that I should try to help them function. I may flatter myself, but that's what Mr. Markovic has been trying to do. So, you said, yes, some funds were provided for the pipe water, it was started this year to be completed in June 2003. Of course, and as otherwise it might be, the water line isn't made overnight. By the way, not only the plumbing, I believe that as a result of the activities to a lesser extent of this minister, and to a greater extent the Government and some interactions with local self-government will be a few words about the paved roads in Ćupria, and hopefully a nice new school.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25236	The word has been made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25237	I first want to report one violation of the Rules of Procedure, and then I will speak by the law that I have as vice president of the parliamentary group. In fact, we have now received notes from Friday's 13th session when it was voted on budget rebalancing for 2002 and in that part 17.50 to 18:00 hours, the president of the National Assembly put the rebalancing of the Republic of Serbia's 2002 budget in principle, concluded the vote, found that for 122, no one, with abstentions, voted two of the total of 124 MPs, and instead of saying that the law was not passed, because the result of the vote could be that the law was only passed or not, she says - I agree that the National Assembly has no quorum to decide. Since I doubt that too, on the basis of Article 110(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I ask the Rules of Procedure to allow me to hear the tape from Friday from 17.50 to 1800 hours. I would ask that those who don't know anything don't get me. I'll also go to Vrsko Kuk to hear that tape, because there's been another injury to the Rules of Procedure, and I'm convinced that the notes from the session have been processed. Of course, MPs have been processed in the break, and I am now talking when the notes have been processed. It's one report of a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The second is, it's strange that the minister comes out here today for a pay phone, the local self-government minister says, and I have a position, and the government of which I am a member, that no temporary measures are imposed when conditions are met for the introduction of temporary measures in municipalities. He called it minimum terms. No minimum and maximum conditions. There are certain cases in which local self-government is introduced, and as soon as the conditions in which a temporary measure is imposed are met, and as soon as conditions are obtained, it is introduced. If three months have not been held a session of the municipality's temporary measures are being introduced. They cannot be bought by the council to hold a meeting of the congregation after four or five months. Now to move on to the bill of participation of municipalities and cities...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25238	I ask the MP not to use three minutes to take his place, to observe the business procedure for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, so you will get the word for your announcement as a representative of the parliamentary group. So, first question do you want a meeting of the Administrative Committee to discuss your objections to the infringements of the Rules of Procedure? The MP knows very well that when the Assembly does not have a first condition for work, which is the existence of a business mandatory quorum, then there is no voting against, or for, any vote, but has the obligations of the president or chair to read all the data it has and to inform the present MPs that the Assembly does not have a quorum. As for your dialogue and objections to the views of the Prime Minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and that is businessly possible, a stenogram and tape will be provided for you. You've been given stenographic notes and there's no particular reason to doubt the stenographic notes and the tape, but of course the doubt is good and you'll have reason to check. Your objections to the presentation of the Minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia are not the subject of the Rules of Procedure unless you are referring to a member who is not known to me, but the minister may receive a word under Article 89(2). The word has a minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Rodoljub Sabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25239	I must admit that Mr. Nikolic normally comes out quite prepared for this pay phone and usually correctly quotes the regulations, but I must suggest that this time better examine the contents of the Law on Local Self-Government, because he was wrong, so what I said is also in the Law on Local Self-Government, fortunately, no longer mandatory temporary measures. The government can, on a proposal from the Minister for Local Self-Government, and that's why I let myself say what I said, yes, but never has to. So I hope I'm clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25240	The word has the deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group, MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25241	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party will not take part in the debate over this bill. We never even took part in the debate when this bill is on the agenda, because we want to avoid the trap of the local patriotism, the trap to talk about the municipalities from which we originate, and to embitter the people of the municipalities from which we do not come. I think it was directed to the MPs, especially the parliamentary majority, that in this job, the job of trying to amend this bill to the amendments, they are not going in, but there is something I must point out as a representative of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group. On 29 November 2002, we received a bill on the participation of cities and municipalities in the income tax and sales tax in 2003. I suppose the government systematically prepared the bill systematically, taking into account all the parameters affecting the percentage and affecting the amount of funds that will come out of it, and then on 6 December, we received a new bill seven days later. This one certainly isn't the subject of studio work. This bill, which was created in just seven days, is the subject of agreement, trade, concessions, indulgences. I'll show you how this proposal differs from the one that was studioly prepared. Four cities in Article 2 now have less appropriations than the November-month proposal. It is interesting not to mention Pristina, as the fifth city, although the funds are provided for in Article 6. It is impossible for you in Article 6 to provide for the funds of the sales tax in the territory of the city of Pristina and municipalities in northern Kosovo and Metohija, for these funds to go to a consolidated vault account, for them to return, on the proposal of Neboja Covic, Pristina and those municipalities, and not to appear here anywhere. We don't know what the funds are. Does the government know what the funds are? What is the law that separates four municipalities and one city from the system, not just from the system of the Republic of Serbia, from the AP of Kosovo and Metohija? We now have a special law for the city of Pristina and for municipalities in the AP Kosovo and Metohija and say it will not be the same system as in all other municipalities and cities in the Republic of Serbia. The National Assembly will no longer decide what percentage is and what is the amount, but will decide the government on a proposal, you know on whose proposal, on the proposal of Nebojka Covic. That's what this bill says. There is another interesting thing about the bill - by which criteria are the municipalities of Kosjerić, Paracin and Nova Montenegro now damaged by certain amounts compared to the November proposal? I'll never ask by what criteria you've given someone more, but I'm really very interested in what the criterion was for two cities where you sold cements and for New Montenegro? I wasn't there for Laza, and he wasn't Dr Blazic, so I couldn't find out what less funds for the New Montenegro than was foreseen by the study work of the government and the Minsiter. The Minister for this speaker can say whatever he wants and can talk a lot, it is approved by the Rules of Procedure, and its structure, but he does not tell us the basics - why has the bill been changed, who are MPs who have affected to get more in certain municipalities, and especially who are MPs from opposition lines to whom, by God, it has been done and who had to justify it on Friday? Another trap is here for the citizens of Leskovci. Tobož, suddenly before the elections in Leskovac, the government changes the bill and much more resources than were intended at once for the Leskovac Municipality, because now the representatives of local self-government will be able to go to local media and say - see how the government cares about Leskovac. I wish we had a December 22nd election for all local self-government. The minister would find money to give everyone a lot more, because that's how you run a policy of funding local self-government. It can't be like this. This law came through as a result of lobbying. Look at the cities from which the Deputy Prime Ministers and individual ministers come. See how much these amounts are intended for funding. No criteria. This is where the MPs will vote. They invite you, you invite them and you trade through this law, then it happens, as it happened in Somboru, that even the Prime Minister admits that the money is laundered through local self-government, and even the manager who did it goes to jail. It's the fate of these agreements. That's why this law goes after the Budget Law. Normally, it is natural for him to have an organic place after the election of the budget, but in that interregnum, a vacuum between the two laws, there is an agreement and lobbying. That's why Serbian radicals, look at the notes, since there's been a multi-party assembly, we've never given any amendments to this bill. Every year in December of the month on the agenda... Throwing it out of the O.R. There's an MP here, he may not look like an MP, but he is an MP, I've been checking his records. Tell him to hang in there for a while. Let him calm down. It's not easy for me to go out on every bill and on many amendments, and it's not easy for me to prepare myself for it. The easiest thing to do is take out the paper, put it on the bench, wait for one of the MPs to come out and start throwing it at him. That's the easiest. It's not the work of a MP. (President: I ask the People's MPs not to receive an MP who is behind the speaker and I ask the MP who is also doing so, as this may be the result of your throw-off, so that you too may refrain from it. I started talking about it. I want to throw away those who go out for a pay phone. They have a chance and they get to me. But those who don't go out for a pay phone, which they only earn, leave me without being able to stop them from carrying out the thought they have. Those who have no thought, and who have nothing to say behind the pay phone, let them not prevent us. To us Serbian radicals, this is a professional job. We don't do anything else. As long as you do other business, you won't be good MPs, and they'll catch you on the Durdubak to get you in the O.R., that there's enough for the quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25242	Finance and Economy Minister Bozidar Djelic reportedly.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25243	Dear People's MPs, I'd like to clarify two or three facts. First of all, as regards the relationship between the entire budget of local self-government and the funds that come from this law, I said earlier that the original meaning of this law is a little forgotten, if we look at the facts. That is why next year we need to review its effects and whether we have instruments for solidarity. However, that sense is still there thanks to the criteria you voted for when you voted for the Law on Local Self-Government, under which this law was made. Therefore, it should not be surprised if, in principle, in those local self-governments where the economic situation is better, of course, that the participation of these funds in the total budget of the municipality is less. The point of this law is to to some extent to balance development in the Republic of Serbia and to give some more funding to those local self-governments where the economic and social situation is somewhat more difficult. As a result, you will see that, in a percentage sense, the funds that come from this law to those local self-governments that are in a difficult situation are something greater than those local self-governments where the situation is slightly better. Another matter concerns Kosovo and Metohija. Of course, at least this government is DOS, at least the DSS, the least these groups are responsible for the situation we encountered, Resolution 1244, on the fact that the Republic of Serbia cannot exercise its competence there. Because of this, this law is nothing but a reflection of what was a completely wrong policy that led to our institutions being able, including those who are fiscal, to fully implement their competences in that territory. We have to respect this difficult reality, but this difficult reality is made by those who are criticizing this today, and it's one replacement thesis. Those who led Serbia have led to the fact that today, when we talk about the city of Pristina, we cannot do the same through the same mechanism to finance these local self-governments. At least he is responsible for this government, at least this majority is responsible for it, but those who find it appropriate to criticise it today. However, through this law we show a team of municipalities (and this is the same message for our fellow citizens, who live there today, that they are not forgotten, that they exist in this law), in the technology of transfering funds, it is clear to all reasonable people, that this cannot be passed on in the same way, because we simply do not collect today's sales tax on the territory of the AP Kosovo and Metohija, according to some Kumanovo Agreement, which someone else signed, according to one Resolution, which was voted in another time, for which this government is not responsible, and this is one found international obligation, which we must respect, these taxes today are collected by UNMIK and by those institutions that are being built there today. And of course, there's no arbitraryity in the way they're financed, for the part that our country's funding, the functioning of some institutions in Kosovo and Metohija, and we talked about that, it's contained in the Republic's budget, which we talked about exhaustively a few days ago. And the last thing I'd like to mention, of course there was no trade, simply, between the first draft and this one that's in front of you today, there were no cabinet arrangements, some bilateral arrangements, to be given to someone and to be denied to someone else. I said the whole thing, and within the Standing Conference of Cities and Municipalities, everyone was welcome, more than forty-fifty of them came, and positions, and opposition, various parties. We considered the situation and no one was given more or less, but simply, in that part of the infrastructure, the cities (and that was their effort) gave up one part of the funds, which belonged to them, and also to the state, which is Serbia, gave up one part (signs) of their incomes, so that these 360 million dinars were again injected on the same criteria, not "by the grandmother and by the uncles", but by the same criteria, which are contained in the Law on Local Self-Government. If you look at and compare these blueprints, you'll see that in all municipalities, of course, with the exception of cities, the amount of funds is slightly higher, and that's because it's simply "injected" 360 million dinars extra for their expenditures. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25244	I thank the minister. (The People's MP Tomislav Nikolic asks for a word, according to the Rules of Procedure. You have no right to a replica. I've listened very carefully to the minister, but you have no right to abuse the report for breach of the Rules of Procedure. (People MP Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: How do you always know I have no right? He criticised those who were in the previous government. Well, everyone who criticized and criticized here was in the previous government. Please, then, all MPs may now report. So every time the DOS is mentioned and the government is mentioned, then MPs from the government would have the right to reply. You have no right to a replica. If you abuse and use the right to reply, I will apply the Rules of Procedure. I'm not going to throw you out, I'm warning you, since I'm obliged to take care of the order in the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25245	I know, ma'am, but get ready to be a little more serious about being president of the state. You should prove to the citizens of Serbia that there is at least a grain of democracy in you. It can't -- I've solved it, I've decided, you have no right. Oh, I'm right. The Rules of Procedure don't give me the right at all, if by name they mention me, but only if it's negatively about me, if it negatively interprets my exposure, if I feel that I'm hurt. The minister came out and dropped the charges on me, he said -- those who are now criticising this bill, were in the previous government and led to this. And that's not the basis for your replica? So you better educate the minister, lest it cause any replicas, but rather deny me the right to the line. You can't do that. I was talking about municipalities in Kosovo and Metohija, now the minister says there is no sales tax at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25246	Which member of the Rules of Procedure do you advertise?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25247	From Articles 1 to 199, they are all injured.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25248	Since you have not stated exactly which, and there are only 190 members of the Rules of Procedure, and to learn, since you have not advertised which member, exactly which one you have listed, and since, under Article 97(3) of the decision on the cases referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 relating to the acquisition of the right of replica, the President of the National Assembly, therefore, decides the President of the Assembly, I do not allow you to have the right to reply and I ask you to step away from the speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25249	It's all on record.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25250	Are any of the other presidents, or deputies' groups, answering for a word? No, I don't. We continue the debate in principle. According to reports for the People's MPs, the word has been issued by MP Radmilo Milosevic, the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25251	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have a law that the minister said wasn't exactly designed for "grandmothers and uncles", but that the motionary treated some as a mother, and according to some municipalities, not even as a stepmother, is seen in this law, which is written. If we look at that cities have received about 8 billion on various grounds, and these cities live somewhere around 2 million people, it is 30% of the total population, and that in the other 140 cities live somewhere around 5.5 million inhabitants, and that the total return towards all these cities is five billion, there is already one injustice, but even greater injustice is seen if it is seen that 30 municipalities from Serbia have received under thousands of dinars per capita, and these are the municipalities of Apatin, Arandelovac, Baca Palanka, Bačka Topola, Bogašić, Velika Gradište, Vladimirci, Vrbas, Žabljalj, Zrenjanin, Indjija, Kovačica, Kraljevno, Kulovo, Lapovo, Odžaki, Parac, Pozarjevac, Ruma, Jagodna, Svilinac, Sombor, Becej, Temerin, Topočač, Čačac and Čač. These 30 cities have more than a million and 500 thousand inhabitants, just as the city of Belgrade has, which is again on the basis of five billion dinars, and these 30 cities get a billion and 300 million dinars, which means they get about 850 dinars per capita, and that the city of Belgrade gets about 3,500, which means four times more. Mr. Vlad Bulatovic - Vib said that someday in communism we will all live in Belgrade. It seems that the intention of this government is that we all live in Belgrade in democracy as well. There is one amendment submitted to this law, where it is proposed to adopt the lower limit for municipalities and that limit is about 1,000 dinars per capita, and it is not some big asset, in order to correct this injustice to these 30 municipalities in Serbia. That's about 200 million. On a budget that is 260-270 billion, it represents nothing, but it represents nothing in any distribution between cities and municipalities, because it turns out to be about 2.5% of the return on funds that the cities have received. As for the criteria, these municipalities have at least won in this development suit and I'm not going to say that there have been a lot of flat-rate things, but simply, we all know that all of our municipalities in Serbia are exactly the same ID card. Each municipality has a population of over 10%, refugees and displaced persons, Arangelovac has over 5.5 thousand, each municipality has a population of over 10% who are employed, and more than seven months and a year do not receive salaries. Every municipality in Serbia, if not every one, but almost 95% of the municipalities, almost has water that is not for drink. We have had this year and poisoning citizens in the municipality of Topol, and the Ministry has not defined a single dinar for the municipality to resuscitate the water supply. In the municipality of Arangelovac, last year, water from the water was not used for a month, because manganese appeared at a much higher percentage than is allowed. I say, each of these municipalities has its own problems and I don't want to bid on problems. We are all in a difficult situation, but I don't think this 200 million is a great effort to bring municipalities in Serbia into the same situation. As far as Article 4 is concerned, The law, Mr. Minister said it was more favourable for the municipalities, that he was not for that member last year. It is true that it is more favourable for larger cities than for small municipalities, but somehow it seems stimulating to me that through some particular quota of sales tax, the municipality has a profit. Of course, there will certainly be fewer municipalities and larger cities more. I just didn't understand in that Article 4 because last year, as I recall, it was that everything that went beyond the sales tax, and compared to this year, to be shared, and now I see in this law that it was divided over the established criteria. I don't think that's a good thing, that it should stay the same to be divided on the basis of this year's sales tax, because this one, as far as I can see for my municipality, is about 377 million, which is almost invaluable. We know that the economy is in a difficult situation, we know that there is no people money and that the sales tax will certainly not be bigger next year, but this year. I believe, here, we'll see, we'll see about that. One more thing I want to say is that this year, that is, in 2004, for some less than 14 months, 200 years since the first Serbian uprising. There are a year and more days since we handed over all the plans to the Serbian Parliament, all projects regarding 200 years of uprising, and we still have no information from the government. I've been to Vice President Korać several times, we've had conversations, he's in charge of the celebration, but I don't have any more information from him. The Organization Committee isn't built. I see here in this law on the back, I see that there are certain funds for some municipalities, where I even see that the funds are defined for the smoker. But, nowhere, I don't mind having those funds belong to the Kedinaca Park, but I don't understand that no funds for the Nutsac are provided anywhere in this law, and that's a place of first importance. Just to tell you one thing, the Institute for the Protection of Monuments and the Company for the Construction of the Regulatory Plan, the village, or the famous town of Orasac, costs about four million. So we're going to pay one state or republican institution, or the Institute for the Protection of Monuments, and we don't have anything from the budget and the Republic for that complex. I think it's a shame. Our predecessors, communists 50 years ago, in 1954, did more to mark the date of the first Serbian uprising and the statehood of Serbia than today's democratic government.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25252	The word has a finance minister, Mr Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25253	Very briefly, I think, just to give a few facts as to the Aryan. The municipality's budget for this part, it's 29.1 million dinars and through this framework is projected to be around 40.5 million dinars, and that's 39% higher. I don't think it's any kind of thing, I think the Arangelian is in a very good situation. When you talk about the economy, not only the "Knjiz Milos" company, but other companies, are progressing, and finally, of course, that this provision of division beyond the framework, I don't think we've really hit the best way and the best rate, but it certainly shows in itself that it can partnerly work between local self-government and the Republic of Serbia in terms of curbing the gray economy. Here's a way for local self-government to come up with additional funds, I can say that one of the reasons why some of the environments came up with higher amounts of funds is not only because the system is set up, but also because they have shown a greater determination that what is illegal trade, what is unregistered activity, reduces to as little as possible, and that requires courage, but they are through this mechanism, they have all received additional resources to do something more for their citizens afterwards. You're right here, this provision, I think it's a dialogue that will be much more active next year than it was this year between, especially, tax administrations that will be reorganized in the way you voted a few weeks ago in the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, and one of the key additions, is going to be much closer to working with local self-government. If we talk about fiscal decentralisation, taxes are taxes and there can be no favoring of any fiscal form, just because it is "national", and that some others are less, or that there is less effort for someone else because it is now 100%, if there is local self-government in the budgets, and that is something that is necessary for all of our citizens. The taxpayer, the budget user or citizen, is the same citizen, but two persons. We're all funding something in terms of some common well-being. For this reason, I hope that in Arangelovac, as well as in our other local self-governments, that much more will work together, and that will be one debate that we will have in the beginning of next year, that is, in what way the tax administration and other inspections, the market inspection, especially the inspection of the work that will have much more resources, which are approved a few days ago, and voting for the budget of the Republic of Serbia and it is envisaged that of those 160 inspectors, be 500 at the end of the year, in which way it can fit with the programmes and plans of local self-government, that, without of course, the raising of taxes, on the contrary, through better coverage of the grey economy, as well as local self-government through this and other mechanisms, how additional funds can come in, and as we have announced and debated the moment of the talks and our debate on the budget of the Republic of Serbia, as well as of Serbia, as on the same level of taxation, the same amount of the same amount of income, the same amount of the same amount. First of all, we're thinking about sales tax and what they're imposing on wages, which is a priority for next year.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25254	We've got word from the Rules of Procedure. Replica, on what basis? (Milosevic Radmilo, from the place: about the Arangelite.) )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25255	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the president of the National Assembly has been injured by Article 100(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which says that MPs are obliged to honor the dignity of the National Assembly. When I said the members were injured from 1st to 1st,199th. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I thought, in conclusion, with a member speaking with 199 who speaks of the President of the National Assembly being obliged to place a motion for a non-refusal vote on the government's agenda within three to fifteen days from the day of the motion. I didn't mean to mention it on purpose, because according to this article, the government itself raises the issue of trust in the National Assembly, and I can't really say that you've hurt the Rules of Procedure. But you deceived the National Assembly, Mrs. Micic, when you said the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly had only 190 members. You've told one lie. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have 256 members, to say that it is 256 historical, has ceased to apply, but at least 255 members still have the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. This isn't the National Assembly, so let's say she has 249 MPs like you used to say. Each of us has this yellow book, and it has members from 1 to 256 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I'm doing this more for the public. I'd like to ask you to attend some accelerated courses of education, where you're waiting for a responsible post-New Year's most likely. If there is no reason in the Assembly, let's choose Professor Simonovic to represent us there as Serbian President. I'm just asking you not to use lies like this in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25256	Mr. Nikolic, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are not 256, but 236 members. You could have, and we're wasting our time, and I already said, let's learn something. Secondly, I've already responded to that injury you're advertising that I didn't put forward a motion not to vote in confidence with the government. It shall be in accordance with Article 133(2) where each proposal is necessary in accordance with this Rules of Procedure. So, for those reasons... (Tomislav Nikolic from the site: I am not satisfied with the answer. ) Since MP Tomislav Nikolic is not satisfied with the answer, I am appointing the Administrative Board to decide within 24 hours on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, straight to the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25257	I didn't just bring up problems here, I was talking about some 30 municipalities in Serbia. That's what I've been running through the A.R. Because that's where I'm best known. As for some successful companies, there are some successful companies in every city and many more unsuccessful ones. In Arangelovac, it is "Knjiz Miloš", but we also have "Shamote" with 2,400 workers, we also have "Electroporcelan" with 1,700 workers, we have "Meadnik" with 700 workers, we have "Collective" with 300 workers, "Strelu" with 200 workers, "Standard" with 200 workers and so on. The picture of the budget may be of the Arandelovite, and Mr. Minister is not here, which seemed to be beautiful, because it's a big budget. He is a great man, but the Aryan has three self-sufficient contributions. Let the municipalities that have self-dependence come out. Of those three self-sufficient contributions, we have something in the budget. Of these self-sufficient contributions, we also finance a health center in Arangelovac. This year 12 million were given to the health center, because it's abnormal for us to have medical personnel receiving a pay-off from the Republic without being able to examine patients. These days, they're always on our backs, they owe us for transporting workers 1,200,000, and they're asking local self-government to pay for it, because the traffic company won't drive them anymore. Now I wonder why they pay the doctors if they're going to sit at home and not come to the hospital. We simply finance the agrarian from that budget. We have Revital villages. There goes about six million a year and so on, and so forth, but that budget is the will of the citizens of Arangelovac, not the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25258	The word is from the chairman of the Finance Committee, MP Nenad Bogdanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25259	Dear Members, I have been thinking whether to report on this subject, if it were perfectly normal, on a number of grounds, and of course I have decided to answer, listening to certain MPs and what they say. When we consider this, it's true what the minister said, that this is about 16% in the local self-government budgets. Of course, that's important, how to whom, and some are more percentages, and some are less percentages. What we know in cities is even less than it says here. What we cannot allow, and I am telling you clearly as president of the Committee and as president of the City Government in Belgrade, which is not to adopt this law, because I warn you, if we do not adopt it, the most benefits Belgrade, Nis, Novi Sad and those you are trying to criticize right now will benefit from it. So why? If we keep the previous law, it would be extremely appropriate for those cities. So nothing would change them much, including Kragujevac and some other cities. This way how the situation in Arangelovac is presented now, when we looked at this data that we have, I don't understand what the problem is. The Arangelovac has gone fantastically through this proposal compared to all other cities, and compared to Belgrade, it has gone unseen well. The fact that the MP and the president of the municipality or the chairman of the executive board in Arangelovac said that the average of these cities he mentioned in relation to this budget part he received below 30,000. He's under 15,000 in Belgrade. You can divide that, two digits and you get and naturally we're not against it, because we think that this part of the budget has two elements. One is an element of solidarity, and Belgrade is ready to bear much of that burden of solidarity without saying the greatest, because it is natural. Why don't we fight yet, and I'll tell you through some numbers. Belgrade had this share in 2000 at 15.1%. Last year he had 7.5%, and this year he has 4.0%. Again, we from Belgrade, here are the most deputies from Belgrade, we do not object. Why? There are many other things, not city-building land. Why? Of course, everyone else has that and everyone else has other basics and everyone else needs to deal with their local problems and not be able to create conditions to make income into their budgets. It's not easy for gentlemen to fight a day-to-day fight with a black market, it's not easy to fight day-to-day fights with those who don't pay their dues, it's not easy to fight day-to-day business. That's everybody's income. Those who don't have it should be helped. That's why the cities have made their decision. And not to be overly naive, as the minister very often says, during these talks through the 180m-euro conference, we agreed to give up practically four of the largest cities in Serbia in our budget, and the Republic gave up 180m. I have to, and I'm sorry the minister isn't here, and since he repeated it for the 15th time, I have to say that's not true. The 180 million republics did not give up, but will again be the result that through this denunciation of cities, cities have reduced percentages. The Republic will get that money again, and that's a fact. So the cities gave up all 360 million dinars and that's fine. I can't complain, no matter what the cities make concessions and other cities, and I can't complain because these three cities got a much higher percentage of the increase than Belgrade, because I know they have a harder situation and that for them 200 or 300 million people who got through it are much more important at this point than for Belgrade. I have to work together with people I work with from other means, which is to make more of those who don't pay what they have to pay, pay, and we won't have a problem. Gentlemen, don't forget, and Belgrade is your best example, in 2000 with the city's budget and with much higher percentages, with a 3% tax, Belgrade has failed to total 130. 140m euros. In the following year, the figure will be 350 and perhaps millions of euros, depending on how well we work. Therefore, I ask you to be in this discussion specifically, that we are not trying to push small interests through and which are not essential. As for the four million for the Oresca regulatory plan, I am ready to offer my longtime acquaintance from Arangelovac, here to help Belgrade make the regulatory plan, since it is obviously the biggest problem. Belgrade will certainly as well as some other cities in the previous year, if it could help, it will also help. So that's not the point of the problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25260	Five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25261	I'll finish now, of course. I think we should try to get this out as soon as possible, because it's in everyone's interest. If we don't vote, I say we'll do it again, but I don't think that's the interest of everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25262	The word has a folk MP Milos Lukic, followed by MP Goran Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25263	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the minister is not here right now. But the presentation of this bill, the law on the participation of municipalities and cities in the income tax and sales tax, began with the finding that this law is losing meaning year after year. If someone suggests something that loses its meaning and finds no excuse to do so in a better way, many dilemmas are being placed. Our MPs, and especially the MPs of the opposition, the minister called for demagogy. I just have to remind you that he's been calling us MPs several times in the last few days from this pay phone, saying if you don't vote this, you'll resent the pensioners. If you don't vote that, you'll resent the housewives, etc. This time it says, if you don't vote this, you're going to resent big cities, small cities, etc. It's not the point, and it's not the point of being resentful. After all, this pay phone serves to give an opinion. The aim of the law is to balance the development of municipalities and local self-government. However, when it comes to this, very few elements are seen in this law, those elements that lead to balance. It's about fiscal decentralisation. That is the question -- how much fiscal decentralisation is possible in these conditions, and especially now that after 22 we have several municipalities, which will operate under the new law on local self-government. So he's still not going to have the same rights and obligations as these municipalities that were chosen under the old law. When it comes to these specifics that should be used to achieve balanced development, the number of residents, the number of primary and secondary schools, the number of children in childcare institutions, the capacity of these institutions, the degree of development. All of these are elements that should certainly be used to distribute these funds. However, the effects of earlier laws should be considered. How many cities do we have that something has been done, that the population has been increased by the influence of these funds? This means that life in some municipalities has been made more interesting, that someone has come back to live. Then, how many schools have come to life, how many municipalities now have more children than in the previous period, how many children and preschools have more children. Those would be real indicators, that's what the minister should say. He should say -- here, we applied the law from the previous year, and these are the effects. However, the fact is that there are municipalities where nothing works, and the fact is that there are municipalities that experience a reduction in population from day to day, a reduction in economic activity. That's the strategic thing to think about. When it comes to the recovery of surplus funds, i.e. the allocation of those funds, it is divided by 50:50, between the Republic and local self-government. The minister asked the question - do we have an instrument for the development of solidarity? I'd say we have a few criteria for this injustice. First of all, through sales tax, and in some ways through profit tax, large consumer centres have been favoured. Large consumer centres charge the highest percentage of sales taxes. We have a situation that in smaller cities, people simply don't buy any more expensive goods, not even suits, without talking about cars and other expensive goods. This is mainly what they buy in Belgrade and other major cities. In this way, this injustice is deepening. We have cities that have production, and yet a large part of this product, produced, goes to consumer centres and thus the sales tax, which is actually earned in these municipalities, in the production process, is charged and remains in some other municipalities. Of course, the hardest part is those cities that have neither production nor traffic, which have neither enough children nor schools, nor the population. It's the biggest problem in Serbia. There's a lot of such municipalities. It's safe to look for solutions. One solution would be to introduce a value added tax. In this way, the highest percentage of taxes would be charged and remained in those municipalities in which it was achieved. That's not negligible. A higher dose of solidarity and equality would be achieved there. The second question is strategic, which is that the government begins to implement its pre-election promises and to start developing, that these underdeveloped municipalities begin to revive, to start reviving the economy, agriculture, hence and transport, and then the sales tax and the income tax will be achieved at a higher percentage. So these municipalities will be able to make it happen. However, unless it is intervened, unless the government does something serious and helps underdeveloped municipalities, it will not be much use. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25264	The People's MP Goran Ciric has the word, followed by MP Ljubomir Mucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25265	Ladies and gentlemen, for the third time, the proposal for a law on the volume of funds and the participation of municipalities and cities in profit and sales tax in 2003 is before us. This law has always been the most interesting for us, as representatives of local self-government, so municipalities and cities. Speaking of this law, I want to come from some very specific data. Since we often talk about impressions, about percentages, I want to say, on the case of my city, that the level of income from this section was moving from my city to the city of Nis. In 2000, my city's budget amounted to around 10m euros, about 17m euros in 2001 and this year we close the budget with 40m euros, and next year's projection, based on this budget, is 60m euros. It's not just about my city. From the data we have from other cities, from Kragujevac and Novi Sad, and often mentioned are the cities of Belgrade, then Nis, Novi Sad and Kragujevac, but also Valjevo, Vranje, Gornji Milanovac, Leskovac, Požarovac, Pirot, we see that there is this trend and this kind of increase. I think it's fair that all of us who work in local self-government first say what state our budgets are at this point compared to 2000, the year we're in these benches and we're sitting. So there's an apparent increase. I am proud of what we all, MPs in this assembly, have done when it comes to this law, and this is the introduction of new principles in funding local self-government and this relationship between local self-government and central government. Many colleagues sitting behind our parliamentary group did not believe. We talked about wanting to introduce, through the association of cities and municipalities, that principle of motivation and division of that part of the tax pairs, which is collected in municipalities and cities, above the limits, which is prescribed all these years and mechanisms that have been known for many years. So, to introduce the principle of division beyond the 50-50 limit between municipalities and cities and the central budget. We voted this last year, thanks above all to the amendment that was adopted through the association of cities and municipalities of Yugoslavia, so a permanent conference of cities and municipalities of Yugoslavia. I see here an extremely important role of this association, as an important force both in the talks and in defining all system solutions, which concern municipalities and cities of local self-government, in the adoption of every system law. And this year we had negotiations with Minister Djelic. I can't say they're easy, because conversations are never easy with Minister Djelic. But we did have a conversation with the minister, a dozen of us representatives of the municipalities and cities of Yugoslavia, especially when it comes to changing the original proposal for this law on redistributing funds towards municipalities and cities. So that's where we talk about the principles that are important, because we've heard a lot of thinking about how the smaller environments, the middle of Serbia, are empty. Of course, the problem is also in Southeast Serbia. Nis is in that part of Serbia. There are other parts of it, and I think there are, of course, a lot more reasons than the financial situation itself, because I think that usually these regions, which are borderline towards neighbouring countries, are emptied through a long tradition of non-cooperation, through the fact that borders are defined as a space or lines that separate peoples, and not by bringing them together, and I think that from that point on, we should also go to solving these problems that are mentioned in relation to this law. So I return to those principles that are important for financing cities and municipalities, which is certainly to retain the principle of solidarity that exists now, the principle of solidarity for smaller environments that do not have enough of their income and which cannot function in such a way and exclusively from their incomes. This is also said by percentages of the participation of large cities, but also cities that are in better condition, and they are not so large and the municipality, and I think that principle should certainly be maintained, but only to function on that principle is something that is destimulating for both underdeveloped and developed, and this has shown the example that I set from the 2000 budgets of cities and municipalities and local self-government since 2000, but also this year. So it's destimulating for small municipalities, which in nature things expect to touch and get certainly a supplement of their budget in order to meet the basic functioning. I think it is very important that we have introduced and maintained this principle of solidarity, but that we also introduce the principle of motivation and struggle for our own incomes. I think it was then the final result, not only for those successful or less successful municipalities, but also for the central budget, because it is reflected in the central budget, because we have increased the total amount of funds in this way and inflow of funds into the central budget. I know it's politically productive when we come out here and talk first of all about our cities or municipalities, when we talk about the highest percentage of our city's participation, the bigger the budget. Of course it's our job, but of course we're also responsible for those of our fellow citizens who are beneficiaries of the budget money, and especially when it comes to pensioners, people who are beneficiaries of the pension fund and who we know are in what way they are filled, primarily from budget funds, and of course we also have that kind of responsibility, as we also have responsibilities for those who have to be taken care of socially. When you see this kind of responsibility and natural co-operation between local and central authorities in conflict of interest, which is once again natural, but which must be creative, you see that we have really come up with some steps that are not enough at this point, because we have too many problems and of course we have to talk about these problems, because the abandoned infrastructure, a very difficult social situation, a large number of displaced and refugees, a low level of all institutions, from education institutions, from pre-school institutions, from culture institutions, is all a huge space that needs to be filled out, but of course not overnight. I think this is a model, that the model is to raise the level of functioning of local self-government, that there is clearly a trend in the growth of the budget, and that is clear, and that is evidenceable, because there are concrete data here, and I would like anyone who leaves my colleagues from municipalities or cities to make clear what the budget was in 2000, and what it is this year or how much it is planned for next year. What is it that we have to talk about, the representatives of local self-government when we talk about this budget? It's a question of whether we can use this money most efficiently, which, of course, is not enough, whether we can use it more efficiently and whether we can do more work with that amount of resources. That's certainly possible. We cannot say that we are satisfied with the functions and capacities of all our institutions and I think it is safe that we can arrange it and with this increase this year can be exactly the year when we need to invest in knowledge, but also raise the capacities of our institutions that need to lead to a more efficient model and use of these funds that are available to us at the moment. In fact, here I am making this standard mistake, not available, for these funds we have to fight, but these are the frameworks that we're going to move around, and that's a clear plan in which we won't compromise public spending through local self-government and the overall financial stability of our country, and then not even the percentages that we can fight and raise in the heavens at this moment, it won't mean anything if we go into the spiral of inflation or depravation of everything that is produced and what is being collected. I think this is indeed a responsible bill and because we have harmonised the previous bill in such a way and through the activity of the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities of Yugoslavia, by agreeing to reduce that previously planned level of funds and by moving that level of funding from 360 million to smaller municipalities and cities. I'm saying again, that's not enough. In the end, I would like to say something that is first of all public impressions, because I had the opportunity to listen very often, until I started doing this job, talking about the budget, talking about financial plans, how people actually understand it and what it means to every citizen of ours. In order not to stay in the field of digits and theories, we should essentially say that this is the budget, the budget that needs to be dealt with, the life of each of our fellow citizens, and I'm going to give it a few examples. I don't agree that failure to adopt this budget won't be bad for our cities. I'm sure it'll be bad, because if we don't pass this law then we'll go into temporary funding in the next year, for the next three months, and that will directly mean about 30% less than what we planned in this budget. This directly means 30% less funds for pre-school institutions, and we know how much local self-government has a natural interest in subsidising prices in pre-school institutions and I don't accidentally start from these topics, our youngest, from school institutions, from how much less money there will be, means 30% for social separations, how much less money there will be for many other areas of culture, etc. So I think it's very important that we adopt this law right now and here we are already in the middle and something further in December of the month. It takes enough time and local self-government, cities, municipalities, to build on this law, which we are going to adopt, design their budgets and have at least enough time to transparently display their local budgets and not to make the mystification from the Republic budget, from the local budget, because these budgets have to be presented to the public, because they need to see what that budget means, from the Republic, through the local budget, that it directly means life, that it means directly, as much as possible in these difficult times, which is easier life for our citizens and in cities, but also in Serbia as well.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25266	The People's MP Ljubomir Mucic has the word, followed by MP Petar Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25267	Mrs. Komic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, before I briefly explain the proposal for this law, I would really like to express one disagreement, that the failure to adopt this law and previous ones will lead to a significantly more difficult material position of the municipality and our fellow citizens, and therefore, when we adopt the agenda, I would suggest that we immediately discuss the points of the agenda, the budget and the law on the participation of the municipalities, best at the beginning to expose, unprovoked, and afterwards to conduct a debate or not to conduct a debate. I think it's a bigger contribution to this than what we discussed, and there's always no result at all. Mr. Minister, I've done an analysis of the last five years. There's nice numbers and pretty colors here. This purple, this is my daughter's color. Otherwise, these are municipalities that record income cuts compared to 2002. The poor, slightly corrected and isolated new amounts of limited resources, as well as the rates of participation of municipalities and cities in incomes from profits and taxes on the sales of goods and services delivered on their territory, constitute the basis for the construction of municipal budgets, i.e. the City of Belgrade budget, i.e. for financing of operations established by the Constitution and law. It's these 16.8% of total funds in the budgets of municipalities and cities. The aim of this law is to equalise the volume of expenditure, individually, by municipalities and cities. However, the proposed individual amounts cannot be estimated to provide constitutional equality for citizens. In particular, the favoured cities of Belgrade, Kragujevac, Nis and Novi Sad, with an additional 2.98 and 3 billion dinars for municipal infrastructure, so that these four cities share 5,060 billion dinars or 46.9% of total funds. For comparisons, this figure is the same as that of specialised services in the Republic of Serbia's 2003 budget. This is compared with the instructions given that it is not a problem here to schedule funds for cities and municipalities, but rather the problem that the volume of funds is defined for these purposes, for the financing of local self-government and cities. So, these four cities share 46.9% of the funds, while 141 municipalities belong to 53.1%, although in these four cities there are 2.297.551 residents or 30% of some total population in Serbia, according to a census that nobody knows what it is, although the figure is explained by 7,479.436 citizens. I do not understand just how the data came from and why there is data in these reasons, that 1,906,697 residents live in Kosovo, a data that does not mean anything at this time, given that neither Kosovo nor Metohija compares, nor compares the total Serbia, nor the total number of citizens with this figure, affects the redistribution of funds. As per capita, the average amount in cities is 2,202.4 dinars, while the average amount per municipality is doubled and is 1,100 dinars. Even residents in cities are not equal. For Kragujevac, the average amount is 3.286, Nis 2.635, Novi Sad 2,490 dinars, and per Belgrade resident 2,009 dinars. It is interesting, but worrying that the funds per population of Kragujevac are three times bigger than for the people of Valjevo, and even 3.2 times compared to the people of Osijek, as one of the most underdeveloped municipalities in Serbia. Does the average citizen of Valjev need water, sewerage, street, and does this mean that the citizens of Uba, Osijek and other undeveloped municipalities will not soon reconstruct their main street that looks the most like a modeled iceberg in spring? Otherwise, the average amount per capita in municipalities is much more uniform, with Panchevo singled out with 1,475 dinars and Novi Pazar with 1,217 dinars. On the other hand, in a comparative analysis with 2001, it can be concluded that the growth rates are much more uniform than the amount of funds, but the question is why only in two municipalities - Novi Pazar and Pancevo, the growth indices are higher than the income growth index based on sales tax in the republican budget. The second question is why the participation rate in Kosjeric municipality was increased from 4.7% to 9.7% or Beocina from 2.5% to 8.3%. Is it so reduced the production of cement after privatization of the most successful companies, such as cementers? The basic reason for the drastic increase in rate is the reduced base. The biggest problem lies in the fact that the means of work, according to this law, are insufficient for certain purposes. For illustrations, I point out that children's protection in children's institutions for all Serbia is provided for 1.8 billion dinars, as are the cost of travel for officials by the ministries in the Republic's budget or for services under contracts in the Republic's budget, so that the child costs 9.386 dinars per year, i.e. 782 dinars per month. If we assume that the cost of a child's stay in a kindergarten in Valjev is 5,000 dinars, 80% regresses the municipal local self-government, that means that this amount, which is defined in the budget, is five times smaller than the one that's the thing. Where will local self-government provide additional income and resources for financing children's protection? Due to limited time, I can't continue to analyze. Finally, a high concentration of funds can be highlighted, both in the republican budget and in the cities' budgets. In addition, there is also a large centralisation of the volume of traffic in cities, so the basis for paying sales taxes in Belgrade is 45% of Serbia and with three other cities 60.7% of the total base. To conclude, 90% of municipalities in Serbia have higher participation rates in 2002 than in the proposed year 2003, which means they would not find themselves in a more unfavourable position, and although limited funds do not allow spending and distribution of the surplus reached at 50%:50%, they will significantly contribute to a greater participation of funds in municipal budgets.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25268	The People's MP Petar Cvetkovic has the word, and after him, MP Petar Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25269	I'd like to ask the chairman to warn the gentleman who's been throwing it away from the beginning. I haven't started talking yet, and I'll start. Ladies and gentlemen, we heard Mr. Minister's opening remarks on the proposal for a law on the volume of funds and the participation of municipalities and cities in profit and sales tax in 2003. It is generally estimated that in the largest number of municipalities, i.e. cities from year to year, the percentage of the participation of municipalities and cities, while nominally increasing the amount of money passed on to cities. It's a positive trend and to that finding, that trend, we can't make any remarks. But in addition to what's good, there's one that's a little less good. This is the following: under the Law on Local Self-Government, criteria have been established which the Government must respect, i.e. in establishing the percentage, i.e. the nominal participation of cities and municipalities in sales tax, so that, in the Law on Local Self-Government, criteria, such as the number of inhabitants of the municipality, i.e. the number of departments and the number of facilities in primary and secondary schools, the number of children covered by direct childcare and, as the following criteria, the area and level of development of certain municipalities. When the law was passed, I think there were amendments here too, we all acted well on purpose and wanted as many of these criteria as possible, or elements to give to the government when proposing such a law, so that the bill would be as fair as possible. However, given the fact that the facts are precisely the proposal of this law, there is an impression that, or these criteria have not been applied, these criteria I have read from the Law on Local Self-Government, or they have been applied, and additionally they have been the criteria of personal familiarity, companionship, friendship, etc. Therefore, criteria not indicated in the Law on Local Self-Government. This claim is also shown by the finding that the Permanent Conference of Cities amended the original proposal, i.e. made a suggestion to amend the original proposal, thus reducing the participation of cities in relation to municipalities. I ask the question - whether the legal criteria were respected by the government, and then the Permanent Conference of Cities changed it, or vice versa, the Permanent Conference of Cities found that the Government did not respect the Law on Local Self-Government. I believe that it is the latter, that the Government did not respect the criteria set out in the Law on Local Self-Government, which has led to significant problems on various sides. There are far fewer who are satisfied with their participation, not in terms of the total amount of money, but in terms of percentages, i.e. relations with other cities, or municipalities. However, it is a matter that is very difficult to release and to determine correctly, that everyone is satisfied. Most of them are always dissatisfied, but in this proposal, there are far-fetched matters, and what he had to pay attention to is the legislator of this law. Consider an example of a city, for example. The city in the south, Vranj, to look at the Law on the participation of municipalities and cities, or even better, since these days we mention Leskovac, interesting because of local elections, to see on the Leskovac case, where 163.140.647 dinars are scheduled, or 11.3%. No matter how low this amount is in percentages compared to last year, and lower compared to the previous year last year, the nominal amounts increased. That's the trend I originally praised. Is this huge on the Lescove case, or a little? Now, we can say a little bit, because the woodworking community has an abandoned infrastructure, an economy that doesn't work, a textile industry, is mostly based on the textile industry, which you know doesn't work, is a very small number of companies, social ones, that in the woodworking community in any way work. The only thing that works is farmers, or agriculture. This amount is therefore small and should be given more from that point of view, it should be a higher budget of the municipality of Leskovac, because the municipality of Leskovac has much greater needs than other cities or municipalities, similar development, or similar population, of the same population. On the other hand, this amount is also too large, and here's how - it's too much so that in Leskovac municipality we haven't had any major shifts in the past two years. Look, there is a very important shift in 2000, compared to the previous local government, it is a very important shift, but this shift is too small, or too slow, slowed down, citizens' expectations are failing. In the municipality of Leskovac in the past two years, and especially in the last few months, under temporary authority, and what was worth, and that shift that was made in a year and a half, was returned to the beginning. The interim body has decided that the municipality is water (and the temporary body is "five magnificent", which is called the temporary body, which makes budgets and municipal decisions, distributes the budget, punishes, they are all), and this amount is too large for them. Currently in this situation, for the municipality of Leskovac, under this condition, it is too much, because they do not know how to spend these funds, i.e. they know, but they do not know in an adequate way. So it's very important and therefore they're just as ordered, but instead of the 8, scheduled for 22, these local elections, according to the proportional system, where citizens will be able to evaluate both the lists, and the parties, so to say -- they were so, they were a year and a half, they did something, they threw more, they were only able to earn. They don't have the opportunity to do anything else better, and they look like serious gentlemen, they use some bureaus, like the Republic Government, where they propagate their successes, and in fact, their success is that they don't do anything. And the better they don't do anything, because they'd make a huge mistake. It is better to praise them for these 15 days, until the elections, and then the citizens will assess how who worked, as it was done by 2000, as a year and a half, as the interim body of the Dos, which currently has the resources of a huge municipality, the huge budget of the Leskovac municipality, and how it is necessary for the local community to work in the future. Thank you very much, I only wanted to say on one occasion (I'm going back to the beginning) that the bill is good, regardless of the percentage of the participation of municipalities and cities, because it nominally increases the amounts, but it is also bad about these relations, because it was not in sight (though, the promoter couldn't even know) how they are and how capable they are there, in local self-government. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25270	The word has a National MP, Petar Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25271	The Honored Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr Minister, in an explanation of this bill, which is before us today, the Ministry, among other things, wrote that the criteria for determining these values in Article 2 and the percentage of the population in municipalities, i.e. cities, the number of primary and secondary schools, the number of institutions for direct child protection and the number of children covered by this direct childcare, and as a corrective element, or factor, are the area and degree of development of municipalities, i.e. cities. It is our view from the party of the Soviet Union that these criteria, which only the Ministry has written, are not respected when making the draft of this law. In fact, the funds provided for to be deployed to municipalities and cities are not evenly distributed. Mr. Minister, I just want you to explain how this is possible. And right away, we from the Soviet Union have no objection that for Belgrade there are over three billion dinars, or over three billion dinars, for 2003, and given that Belgrade has an incomplete population of two million, or about a million and 400 thousand adults, or voters, it turns out that by an adult, Belgrade has about 2,300 dinars, or over 1,500 dinars per capita. If we now put this relationship on other cities in Serbia, we will get data that rarely any city, especially underdeveloped municipalities, reaches 1,000 dinars, per voter, or 700 to 800 dinars per capita. So one thing is for sure, that the basic criterion is not respected, so the first criterion, which is the number of inhabitants per municipality, or cities. The second criterion, which is a corrective criterion, is the degree of underdevelopment in municipalities, or cities. The question arises as to how it is possible for municipalities that now have the status of underdeveloped or underdeveloped municipalities, with such small funds, which are assigned to them by the Ministry of Finance and through this law, to reach medium-developed ones, and theirs is only a beautiful desire to reach highly developed municipalities. I'll take only two municipalities as an example, without wanting to forget some other municipalities, but a lot of time should count others. Let us take the municipality of Razanj and Rekovac which are similar, and Mr. Minister, ask Mr. Vlahovic who is exactly your colleague and comes from the municipality of Rekovac, let him explain to you, and I will tell you a little bit about the municipality of Razanj, because there is a little bit more so God said - good night, the economy does not work, the population simply from the village cannot get to the center of the municipality, because the travel network is not there, these are local roads, they need to finance, the Republic does not stand out with such funds, the question is whether they can finance all that they need to finance. The question also arises, if you took as a criterion the number of primary and secondary schools. In underdeveloped municipalities, there are no more children who go to elementary schools and not talk about high school, Mr. Minister. No, because the previous government, and especially this current one, has done nothing, the only one who can do it is the Serb Unity Party, when the moment comes and surely will, when it takes part of the government in the Republic of Serbia. They'll do better than you do. Give me a minute, separate funds for underdeveloped municipalities, for underdeveloped cities, that just there young people remain to create their families, so they will have children, so they will have reason to form primary and secondary schools, so they will have to be safe according to these criteria and means to be larger. I'd just like to give you an example. You predicted 64 million dinars for the Jagodin municipality. Let me tell you, consider that the Jagodina municipality in my budget, and as far as I had the chance to watch yesterday, it predicted that 22 million dinars from its budget, so that's a third of these couples that you're going to give to the Republic, to separate for TV Jagodina. If we know that this TV station is going to be privatized very quickly in a year, two or three, we're wondering whose money and who they're giving to. We from the SSJ, be sure, because of the general public, I have to say, tomorrow we will vote against such a budget of the Jagodin municipality, because it is not for the benefit of the people of Jagodina, if it is known that you have just introduced 210 dinars of subscription to them from January 1st, and assuming that there are some 15,000 households in Jagodina and they have TVs, they will pay a subscription, that is about three million dinars, so times 12, it is a circus of 40 million dinars which will return the citizens of Jagodina to Belgrade, or RTS. From all this exposure, the Soviet Union cannot support the bill's proposal, and it cannot support it for the reason that in Article 4, you predicted that, when these funds are fulfilled, then the other application comes, that the funds are directed towards the vault, so-called. the consolidated account, and only 50% will focus on those municipalities that are made of income taxes, from sales taxes, which will raise those funds. It is normal, Mr. Minister, that bigger cities and developed municipalities will reach that number before they reach that number, because there is a larger number of inhabitants, more employees, and I believe that for this reason you should have prepared this bill in a different way, to allocate more resources for less developed, for underdeveloped cities, and for municipalities, so that we simply try to make this Serbia develop more equally and to stop that wing - the southerly it is saddened. So, we in the Soviet Union can't support the bill for those reasons.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25272	The People's Messenger Sredoje Mihajlov has the word, and after him, He is the One who feeds Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25273	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, and we of the Dukes are not satisfied with the proposal for a law on the volume of funds and the participation of municipalities and cities in sales tax, as we believe that no city in Vojvodina has received as much as it deserves and we could also come out with a proposal that we are totally dissatisfied with this law. The fact is, by the time we were 80 years old, we were robbed and this law, that it's done similarly, but the fact that we're so reasonable that we know what you left us and what you inherited, you left us nothing, you left us on the street, you left us schools abandoned, you left us roads destroyed, you left us with no infrastructure, you just spent money on hangars and buzzers, like I said last time. That is why we will vote in favour of this law, regardless of our complete dissatisfaction and what we think a lot of objections would be given to us as everyone else, and our villages are scattered and empty, too, and cities, we have the same problem as everyone else has throughout Serbia. Gentlemen, let me tell you, for this bill, since you promised us roots, Mr. Djelic managed to drain some dry drenovina and I can tell you that this year, since I was also the director of the City Construction Directorate, we had money, what was promised, it was done, we are not like you who promised, who were making money, we never knew where they went and what they were spent for, why it was abandoned. I'm telling you, for 10 years, you haven't managed to maintain schools, you haven't managed to maintain hospitals, you haven't succeeded in roads, you've failed to do anything, you've left us on the streets without dinars, and that's why we now have to pass such laws where no one will be satisfied. It seems to me, since nobody is likely to be satisfied, and dissatisfaction is what is in your legacy, what we have inherited from you, and that is why we must accept this law and vote for it. I think this government in this great misery has found the strength to maintain and preserve the heart, to preserve a way to function, not as you have scattered it throughout the white world, nor did you know that you're saving money, but you've just parted. We tell you where you've torn this money apart, and where have you scattered our property? I don't think any city will be happy, we'd have a lot of objections, let me tell you, but I'm not going to talk about the objections, and this time I'm telling you to keep your mouth shut and accept this law, because you left us everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25274	The word is given by the People's Messenger, Hranislav Peric, and after that, the People's Messenger Slavoljub Matic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25275	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Comic and Mr Marovic, this law provides for how much money will be paid to municipalities and cities from taxes on earnings and taxes on transport, which has been achieved in the area of the municipality. When the amount determined by each municipality is achieved individually, in the law, the surplus tax achieved, i.e. from the income tax and the sales tax, and in the area of the municipality, the Ministry of Finance 50% returns to the municipality where the income is achieved, or 50% goes to the Republic budget. You did it on paper and office good. The paper suffers everything, and life is something else. All this would be good if all municipalities and cities were in the same position, that the quality of living conditions is equal in all municipalities in Serbia. We in small municipalities would like our child to go 500 meters away, if his school were there, if he had three eight-year-old schools, as is the case in Old Town, when he chooses where to sign up. We have an eight-year-old school away from each of the villages from five to ten kilometers away and there is no choice, because there is no closer. A special case is undeveloped municipalities, and I will list several cases, and probably there are other areas, which are likely to be discussed by MPs for their environments and environments. I'll give you just a few examples where there shouldn't be any restrictions on income, on income tax and sales tax, and that's Meroshina, and I'd ask the minister, when you're talking to the Minister, I always listen to you very carefully. For nothing, we bring the problems we have here in the municipalities, if you've already determined that this will be the case and you don't appreciate when MPs bring up problems. In Merošina, Doljevac, Gajin Han and Svrlig, and all of these municipalities of Nisavski County, on your table of ministers in 169 municipalities as you stated in the table, were at least 150 to 165 seats. Gajin Han with 11.761,000 is located 166th of 169 municipalities. A question for the minister, how do they make a budget and organize life in this undeveloped municipality? Since all municipalities are in the same situation, I'm only going to set one example. The Meroshina municipality, and where I come from, is scheduled for 15.485,000 under the proposed tax law. Only an eight-year-old school is searching according to the plan for the transport of students and teachers of five million. In total, eight million should be allocated to transport from the municipality's budget for budget users. Seven million remain to cover all other needs and what little is collected from other revenues. If it is known that other sources in these municipalities are weak, then it is clear when these figures are compared. I'd like to point out another problem, from employee taxes, municipalities that are close to big cities like Meroshina near Nis, they don't have much of a view. About 2,000 workers living in the Merošin municipality work in Nis. Most companies do not target their profit tax according to the Meroshina municipality's budget and this is one of the bigger problems. This problem is very difficult, although we have warned companies not to do so, it still happens the way it is. Many problems have small and undeveloped municipalities, where the majority of citizens' income comes from agriculture. Cities and developed municipalities have many more ways to get the money. They have a large number of companies, and most of them have a water problem resolved, all the communals are resolved, electricity power has been resolved, money from the sale of enterprises is easier to get. Anyone with money wants to invest where there are all the conditions. Donors invest in big city investments. All of this I've counted, it's not in small and underdeveloped municipalities. The government in large municipalities through the Development Fund allocates a development programme, while municipalities due to the formation of the Development Fund do not even receive dinars from the fund. Because of what I have previously stated, I propose that all undeveloped municipalities be free of the restrictions on the achievement of the income tax and sales tax in their area. As far as I know, these municipalities in Serbia are about 50. Given that the achievement of these municipalities will be greater on average than one million, it is a total figure of about 50 million. It's a small figure for Serbia's budget. This little money will be able to come from donations from the sale of a small company, one or two million for underdeveloped municipalities, and it would mean a lot to underdeveloped municipalities, not to develop, but to cover their real needs. Minister, I really ask you to think carefully about my proposal and make your personal contribution to helping these municipalities. What I said is true, because it'll be too late if we react later. I also warned the last time from this pay phone, that Bane Ivkovic was yours and that he should be given your time and that you listened and confessed to me, there would be no problem right now. Neither Tomislav Nikolic nor Vukic nor Dragan Markovic nor Dejan Mihajlov would be angry today, because they would already be used to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25276	The word has a National MP Slavoljub Matic, followed by a National MP, Dusan Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25277	Dear ladies and gentlemen, it is very unpopular to talk about this law and I fully agree with my predecessors, especially when you are in a situation to represent some local self-government along the way. Of course, you'll be wrong about your own, if you don't mention it, because no law can be fair enough, and on the other hand, if you mention it, you'll sin against everyone else. This law shows several inconsistencies. The first inconsistencies are certainly the promise of the Republic government that we will urgently decentralised the financial system, decentralised the entire state. I think this law and how it can do, so that we have a financial system that would be decentralised and especially where local self-government would have one extraordinary motive to fight the gray economy. That promise has been for a year, a year and a half. Last time, DSS MPs accepted the model offered here and under this law. This year we submit an amendment, where we want to correct one injustice against thirty municipalities that have and share in sales tax less than 1,000 dinars. I will be obliged, regardless of what I just said, to say something about parameters that were run by a legislator or a promoter, when it comes to my community. I believe the fireman is severely damaged. We only have 788 dinars per capita. I don't understand the parameters they took. This mentions the population number 75,000. All of us residents in Pogorevec know that Povorec has a total municipality of 85,000 inhabitants. Then someone will tell me, as we got it, in fact, that kind of oral response we got from the finance ministry's representative that we have 10,000 gasterbackers, people who work abroad. Then when I look at the number of residents in some other municipalities, which also have 10 or more thousand residents who are not at home but working in Western Europe, then you see that the parameter is not taken. I wonder how it's possible for one like this and for the other one. Minister, how is that possible? Then how is it possible for municipalities like mine to not be able to charge from the republican public enterprises? Believe that there is no address in Serbian ministries that can be contacted as a representative of local self-government and ask that only the law is respected. Believe me, right now, the EPS at least owes over 130 million dinars to the Kostolci and other places in the fire department. How are we supposed to fight the gray economy tomorrow, chase some S.T.E.R. Or some gig at the market or some tiny little gray economy that's just fighting for survival. On the other hand, a bunch called EPS pays no one anything. How is that possible, Mr. Minister? In the end, you're gonna tell me here I missed the topic. Yes, I did, I missed the subject, but as president of the SO, I don't have an address to complain about. You're the address, and I want to go public here in front of the cameras and call you here and tell the Kostolites first of all, the Firefighters why it's like that and how it's possible. How can we separate from the budget for some things, compete with the resolution ministries of the Republic budget money and that for years, i.e. For the last two years, we haven't been getting any funding for anything. So 160 million is needed for water supply, ten million to protect us from floods, 100 million are looking for a contractor for an unfortunate fire farm. The health minister said it had nothing to do with him not building it. I didn't build it either, Mr. Minister. But giving birth to women is not the jurisdiction of local self-government, it's the Republic. How can the health minister say he has no idea what to do with such objects? Tell him to tell us to take over that jurisdiction, and we'll find some moduso. Unfortunately, he doesn't tell us anything, we don't go, we don't pay, we don't pay anything. Based on that, I come to the conclusion that obviously there are two arches here in this Serbia. For example, there is a strong lobby from Panchev, which may even have nine MPs here. All right, laugh, Mr. Minister. There's a strong lobby, why not. We have to trade with MPs in different ways, and then we'll go to local patriotism. Unfortunately, there aren't many MPs from the Fireman, so it's hard to trade with us. Yes, Mr. Jovanovic, they're just presidents. But the predecessors left us 600 million debts through budget firms. So the presidents and I didn't do anything wrong. I'm afraid someone's seeing each other today.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25278	The word has a minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25279	Mrs. Comic, ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to respond to a few of these points. As for the Municipality of Povorec, you will notice that the funds in this law under the equivalent law of last year were 45.6 million dinars. According to this information, you're rebalance the budget, because your revenues are above expectations this year, so above what was scheduled. Over the next year, 67.4 million dinars are projected, which is 48% growth. It ranks Pogorjevac at the very top of municipalities by increasing the volume of funds that comes from this law, not because we have settled, but because the criteria are such that Povorec, as one of the municipalities where the situation could be better, is in such a situation that this law leads to funds being increased by 48%. As far as the Panchevs are concerned, there's no deal here either. There is a very difficult situation, which stems from two key factors, which is a development which in industry's domain has not given due attention to the ecologicality and, of course, the catastrophic consequences of the NATO pact bombing. For that reason, according to research groups... The Federal Ministry of Development, Science and the Environment, two such black spots. It's Panchevo and Bor. They got extra funds. I don't think there's any lobby around here. We just have a very difficult situation. That's what's assigned from public finances. There are also donations and additional funds coming from the international community to address these very difficult consequences. As far as the EPS is concerned, a catastrophic situation has also been inherited. At the moment we started to act, the EPS was unable to provide for all its units and the gross salary fund. It has started with some priorities to ensure the normal functioning of the company, to pay suppliers, to be able to, with great support from Serbia's budget and large amounts of donor funds, come into normal functioning. The next step must be, and this is the purpose and plan for the next three years, which the Government of the Republic of Serbia adopted, as a sort of ENP business plan, providing for the possibility of paying for depreciation and thus providing funds for future investment, not that the EPS continues to need funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget and when donor funding and other sources are completed. Also, of course the EPS should start paying back its huge accumulated debts. There is, believe me, the local self-government in the first place, the EPS owes a lot to Serbia's budget, a lot of debt to the Republic Public Revenue Administration, but the priority is to first settle the debts the EPS has towards local self-government, because we know that these funds are extremely necessary. You will see that in the financial plan for next year, we are very closely following that item, so that the EPS begins to regularly service its debts to those municipalities where it is due to pay some taxes. That's step one. And not only that, but to begin to pay back this huge accumulated debt. But it's a priority. First, to settle what is regular and then to get into the payment of those loans. I think you'll be happy with what the EPS will do in your community next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25280	The word is by MP Dusan Cvetkovic, followed by MP Milutin Svetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25281	Dear Presidency, Mr. Minister, fellow MPs, respected village and town voters of Leskovac municipality, here is your Lesnjak, according to a promise he made to you these days, leading an election campaign and discussing together with you this bill on how much Serbia's budget this year will be allocated to us in poor Leskovac. I'm here to try to convince the government in some way, convince Mr. Minister who is here and now laughing at me, to correct the historical injustice that Leskovac has suffered for years, he suffered last year, and we'll prove it with numbers, Mr. Minister, to get something more, to try to start and solve the problems that are in Leskovac and how big. I'm sure the government and Mr. Minister won't do anything because they think we're red and this is going to turn out like that: the dog barks, and the wind carries. However, because of the promises I made to you, honourable voters, I am here before you. On this legislative proposal, it is certain that many MPs wanted and wanted to speak, but the rigidity of this Rules of Procedure, which we are working under, created such a situation that I thank my fellow Socialist Party of Serbia MPs -- Slobodan Milosevic – for allowing me to go out for this speaker. The position has no reason to often go out for a pay phone, for the government has a special view of it and particularly makes concessions for it. If it is known, honourable MPs, that the municipality of Leskovac with an area of 1,025 square kilometers and with 165,000 inhabitants represents the fifth city of size in the Republic of Serbia, that Kragujevac has only tens of thousands of inhabitants more than Leskovac, that it has 200 square kilometers less, Mr Minister, than Leskovac, it is very interesting that these two cities are seen. Last year, when I spoke on the same subject, about the neglect of Leskovec in relation to Nis and said that Nis received 1.580 dinar per capita, while Leskovac per capita of 730 dinars, it was clear to all how the government had a relationship with the towns of Leskovac. This year, I didn't make a bill, because I'm ashamed of her being real, and what treatment Leskovac has when it comes to Mr. Minister and Government, I'm going to tell you -- from the poor woman, who was assigned to Leskovac, Mr. Minister, your ministry and the government left my Leskovac without 13 million dinars, based on property taxes and farm payments based on child allowance bonds. The municipality of Leskovac intervened several times in the Ministry of Finance, but here to date the 13 million did not arrive in Leskovac. He's got ten more days till the new year. Give Leskovac back what he has every right to and what all other cities have won. That way we patch up a hole or hole in what is to be built in Leskovec. To return now to the comparison of Kragujevci and Leskovci. Leskovac and Kragujevac are in the details very close, but Leskovac has 91 elementary schools and Kragujevac is 73. In secondary education, Leskovac has 11 schools and Kragujevac 9 schools. In children's protection Leskovac has 36 institutions and Kragujevac 27. So, in all the legal elements that are taken into account in the allocation of funds from the Republic budget according to those percentages, Leskovac and Kragujevac are very close and are based on this, and because I do not see in Article 99, there is one item - additional funds - and it practically arises, respected by my fellow citizens, the problem of Leskovec. The Kragujevac in that item gets 347 million dinars, and Leskovac gets two zeros. So Kragujevac with these allocations, Kragujevac, because it is being collected, so if education funds were collected, for healthcare, for everything that is given out of the budget, Leskovac and Kragujevac would be approximated and come close to the same percentage, however, when these 347 million enter Kragujevac on that basis gets 26%, while Leskovec is taking part in the sales tax only 12.2%. Is it normal for a city with only 10,000 inhabitants to have less and less participation in sales taxes and on the basis of cultural funding, respected citizens and esteemed MPs, Kragujevac gets about 10 million dinars and Leskovac gets 2 million dinars. Kragujevac finances three cultural institutions, and Leskovac only finances one. Don't forget in this year, you know it well, in Leskovec, on the wooded ornament of Hisar was found a needle for which today's science has no interpretation of how an iron needle can live 15, 20 and change centuries without getting rusty. The Leskovac in the museum holds the greatest wealth, and the greatest treasure there is is the wealth of the Empress's city. So, the museum doesn't have any cultural units that are funded from this, so now you see if it's normal or not. Dear voters, they're probably criteria based on which Leskovac has one institution of culture, and Kragujevac three, the result of something out of it. So my citizens are moving towards the entry forward, and returning to the back, Kragujevac gets 555 million, and Leskovac gets 173 million or the total budget at the end turns out to be 1.5 billion Kragujevac in 2003, and Leskovec 656 million, and now you see whether I and what we said at the meetings and now I point out why we ask that this injustice be corrected by Leskovec. If because Kragujevac is a city, say one reason why a city with 10,000 inhabitants cannot be less of a city, when five municipalities are united in it, and because when I perform in my promotional meetings, if that is the only reason we declare it in 2003 Leskovac a city, so let him have a budget as close as Kragujevac has, because I know that the minister will respond that it is precisely because of the city, the 347 million dinars, to solve the infrastructure, but please whether there is a city in Serbia that has such problems in infrastructure as Leskovac has. Leskovac doesn't have a solution to the water system of the Bars. Not socialist, but this government that said last week - 10 years needs Leskovac if he wants his own resources to end the water system "Barje". The vulture is supplied from underground with water. Lescovac is supplied for 50 years and change from underground. There is, according to everyone's words, a great danger exists that if Leskovac continues to supply water from underground over the next 10 years, that Leskovac may experience the fate of Tuzla, that certain parts of the city begin to fail and that Leskovac begins to live in ruins. That's why insisting on Leskovac getting bigger funds. There's also no sign of a wastewater treatment plant. Leskovac as a town, as a narrow area of 70,000 people, 20 thousand people live without sewers and this huge settlement of Slavko Zlatanović, Bobište, Jančik, Rade Zunic and everything else. Therefore, it is necessary to solve the problem of sewerage by a wastewater factory for which the project exists and which also chokes the collector that is now coming out of a village, it is choking the city. In the end, the city is without a dump. The vulture was in the garbage last winter for a month and a half. It's the people of Leskovci who live in houses, and 80% of us live in houses and for a month and a half we lived with garbage on the door. Therefore, it is necessary to increase Leskovec's resources to resolve these drastically high problems. However, let me refer to something relating to Article 98 that shows a high hypocrisy of this government and this law, which we have pointed to in the process of passing laws, which is that the generous Republic has given cities and parts of agriculture, immovableity, moving things, insurance, etc. Last year, Leskovac had 4-5 million out of it. Indeed, the generosity of the Republic was great, and as much as these small funds are, they get municipalities, then it's something that's a serious problem, but the problem is that the municipality of Leskovac with so little resources is unable to help the village, so the village of that poor girl that Leskovac gets from the budget is in an even more difficult position and there are always new problems opening up. Yes, in the end, to return to the question of the dump. When I mentioned the issue of problems facing Leskovac during last winter's session of the Ecology Committee, which was a month and a half away from taking out garbage from him, the distinguished Mrs. Comic, with many sarcasm, commented that it was politics, that I was bringing politics into the whole problem, that it had nothing to do with it. Records from the Ecology Committee, about it, exist and can be seen. That, I would say, once again comes to the expression of Mrs. Komic's great love, when it comes to Leskovac. Also, I would like to ask her, when she is already at the responsible post where she is and she is holding a session of this house, at least in the name of the function she should learn, remember or hold ahead of herself as they are called districts in Serbia. When she warned me on Wednesday that she would punish me next time if I did not say the words of my southern Serbia, which I, be sure, write down and ask among the people, I wonder by which member she would punish me. God forbid, I could get sick and come here and stutter. Then how would she punish me? Second, let me get back to that. Let him learn where the MPs came from, James Stamenkovic, a colleague from that party. Mrs. Comic, I don't represent the woodwork district, because such a district doesn't exist. Me and the other four MPs, one from your party, represent the Jablani County. So we were elected to the Jablani County. Mr. Minister, it's not about the plank, it's about Jablanski. Please make a note, so talk about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25282	Under Article 84(2), I am obliged, as chairman, to inform the MPs that they are obliged to provide true information for the speaker. National MP Dusan Cvetkovic, as well as all of us 250, was elected to the electoral unit Republika Srpska, a single constituency. Right on line, MP Jakov Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25283	I understand Mr. Lesnjak's nervousness, since he's a candidate for the president of the municipality, so he wanted to use this for free advertising. I think he should have, correctness for the sake of making facts, not making some arguments here that don't stand. For example, he mentioned this water system called "Barry", which they built as the Shkodar on Bojana, and we're putting up an account, you have all the papers and you can go ahead, check what we did with those resources we had at our disposal. The way you guys did it, there's a criminal record against the former water manager, so we'll see when it's over. As for the "Zeljkovec" dump, you know that the funds are provided, that all permits and consent are provided, but simply, there is a group of people where, your party and NDS party with Milorad Marjanovic headed, organized these people who obstruct the entry of the construction firm to begin solving this problem. The problem has been a problem for 50 years. You didn't save him. We're able to solve it now and we want to solve it. We've secured everything, but you just can't stand to have someone better than you, that what you couldn't solve someone else and you're doing the maximum obstruction. I see here your amendments and my amendments. I compared them and I see that, in fact, you, with two days of delay, have prescribed my amendment to this bill. That's not the scariest thing. You've only been two days late here with the amendment, and as for the application for the president of the municipality's office, you've been late for at least 20 years. You are, as you say, a communist to the bone. It seems you have not been informed that communism has long been defeated in Europe.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25284	This concludes the morning session and continues at 3:15 p.m. The first registered speaker in the afternoon is MP Milutin Svedovic, followed by Miomir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25285	Dear ladies and gentlemen, may we please determine if we have a quorum? I'm realizing we have a quorum and we can continue the session. We continue the principle debate, according to reports for the People's MPs in the principle debate on the proposal for a law on the volume of participation of municipalities and cities in transport tax in 2003. The word is made by MP Milutin Svedovic, a member of the DOS-DSS parliamentary group. The following is MP Miomir Ilic, a member of the SPS group, declared for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25286	Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Chosen, I'm sorry there isn't a Mr. Minister here, but I hope someone will tell him what I have to say now. Namely, this law on the participation of cities and municipalities in the income tax and sales tax in 2003 is something most debated outside this assembly building, and as my predecessor said, Mayor Nisa, that even in the Permanent Conference of Cities there was much debate, in the presence of ministers and his associates from the Ministry of Finance. It is true that a concession has been made by cities, that certain funds amounting to 180 million dinars are transferred to municipalities and that an evener and primarily more solid distribution to undeveloped municipalities is attempted, and that's good. However, reading this chapter 4. The effects of law enforcement are said to be the basic parameters, which were used when determining the amount of funds for the preparation of the 2003 budget of municipalities and cities, the real growth of the social product of 5%, then the rise in the price in which the price is contained and transferred, is 14.1%), and this third item, which refers to the nominal growth of the social product of 19.8%. However, the government's memorandum says that this nominal growth in social product is at 21.77%, and there is some difference of 2%. If we take the social product to be 18 billion dinars, then that 2% difference is shown at $360 million, or 21 billion and 600,000 dinars, and it's probably, not likely, not shown here. As far as this part is concerned - financing of cultural institutions, there is my big remark, not to fund cultural institutions and monuments - complexes, type of memorial complex in Takovo, where the church, the cabin, before which the great prince Milos Obrenović, raised the Second Serbian Uprising in Cveti in 1815, was then not included in Milos Obrenović's birth home in Montenegro, then there was no Vracesnica monastery, which was named an object of great importance for the Republic of Serbia on 18 March 1949 and placed under the protection of the state. Then, there is no mention in this proposal of the church on Savinco, which is also put under protection, then, what the president of the municipality of Arangelovac said, there is no mention - of the complex to the first Serbian uprising, and I will absolutely support the amendment given by the MPs of the Zlatibor district, in which they are seeking to single out an increased percentage for the archive in Uzic. When it comes to increasing these percentages, I'd like to say that, for example, If the separation is increased by 10 million dinars, it costs the government only five million dinars, because over that volume 50 to 50%, so it's very small funds. I have submitted with a group of MPs from all parliamentary groups an amendment, which concerns the financing of the Museum of Mines - Such an end, and all of these complexes I mentioned, however, it has been rejected as untimely, and I will insist on the Finance Committee to include this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25287	I thank the People's Menu, and before I give my word to Parliamentarian Miomir Ilic, I ask the heads of Parliament to come to my cabinet for a meeting, to agree on a follow-up. The session will continue, co-worker Komic. The People's Messenger Miomir Ilic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25288	Dear People's MPs, I cannot greet Mr. Minister, because he is not here, unfortunately. It should be there, because in addition to the 2003 Budget Law, this bill on the volume of funds and the participation of municipalities and cities in the 2003 income tax and sales tax, and how important it is for Serbian citizens and local self-government. We can advocate as much as we want for local self-government, if local self-government all that we've passed on to it, certain law rights that came out of our decisions, there's no financial support, then it wouldn't be. As far as this situation is concerned, I would like to present in my discussion several elements and facts relating to the proposals made. It is 67 and a few billion dinars, as it already stands out for the purposes of local self-government, is a major item, but by the criteria that are given here, yet what is proposed is not exactly on one level, because it takes a little bit to balance between. To support it in some way, I quote this, there's an unwritten rule, and that's that if you have to add it to someone, then you have to take someone away. To take someone away, then you have to take someone away where you can. In this case, the promoter has just suggested that it be taken away where it can and by us can't. In this case, it was taken right by those same criteria in those municipalities where the Socialists won, and that is why I will use those rights and although I am an MP for a single electoral list from Serbia, my facts from Braničev County and I will give concrete examples. As for Article 2 means, according to the annual amount of funding for 2003, I can present the following data, that in eight municipalities of Braničev district where the Socialists have won and where they are in power in equal to five municipalities, in the municipality of Požarec they are not in power, but I hope that on December 22nd, the Socialist candidate will win and that we will get a 35th panelman, and then we will see what we will see. As for the municipality of Petrovac and there we share 50-50, for Kučevo we know from a known case where we were deprived of our parliamentary mandates. Looking at the concrete example of this law regarding these municipalities in Braničen County, it is these eight municipalities from Article 2 that looks like this - did the minister say that increased participation in this Article 2 almost for all municipalities, but for these eight municipalities looks by percentages the following - for the Municipality of Velika Gradišče, it is in a minus 8.86%, for the municipality of Kučevo, minus 10.41%, the municipality of Malo Crnica, minus 5.99%, the municipality of Petrovac is only an increase of 2.91%. If the criteria are also taken, i.e. the number of the so-called the permanent population is what is stated here, the population is always just what is there, so what went on weekends in Austria or on temporary work for up to a year, it is not a population. It is to be taken away from and taken away from, and they have not given any rights. For this reason, I cite a concrete example that only in the municipality of Žabari, instead of 13,005 citizens, there are 18,000, and there is a difference of 5,000. In the municipality of Malo Crnića there is a difference of 3,000, noting that the municipality of Malo Crnića is an undeveloped municipality and that according to these criteria of the municipality of Malo Crnića, about three million dinars were taken away. We know that in these municipalities agriculture is crucial to the citizens of these municipalities, then we can see what it represents for normal development and one and the other environments. As for the municipality of Pogorec, I must point out that in the share, this is a criterion, I don't know by which, if the criterion is per population, then our municipality has 85,000 inhabitants and is a figure of 67 million large figures, but I agree with the proposal, although at this point in the parliamentary group of the leading party, they suggest that it be the criterion of 1,000 inhabitants by the basic criterion, then such an amendment is acceptable to the other municipalities. I cite the following example, and it is related to Article 3. these are percentage rates according to earnings, according to the sales tax of services and product sales tax. None of these eight municipalities received any increase. I have to say, for example, the Big City Municipality in 2002, there was 22%, and now it's 11.8%. Next, Golubac 28%, and now 21%, continue Toads 30%, and now 27%, then Frogs 52%, and now 33%, now Dogs 40%, and now 23%, Little Blacks had 34%, and now 24%. Next, Petrovac - 25%, and now 16%. The town of Porevac 4.5%, and now 2.8%. I note that of the 141 municipalities listed here, the municipality of Pogorec and if it is based on tax and service income in 19th place, it is 141st percent here, not to say that it is more than harmful. Yes, you may be irritated by the Fireman as a city, but the Fireman is the seat and cultural life. For this reason, what is highlighted in some items, such as investing in culture, should be remembered and recorded that in Pozarevec there is a Gallery Milane Pavlovic - Barili, one of the world's artists, she is of Serbian origin, and which should certainly protect this gallery, not that there is sneezing and that these world works are being destroyed. In the end, I would have to mention these elements that have been presented in additional means. We Socialists, and under the leadership of our President Slobodan Milosevic, are never to give the big cities no more, but the withdrawal of 2.98 billion dinars for these four cities, that's fine. But it's okay to just stand it out. Why not develop our municipal infrastructure from additional sources in other areas, in municipalities in the south, in Šumadia, Vojvodina, eastern Serbia. I note, that if this is used for some purposes of municipal infrastructure, for a nicer city, for our Belgrade, then it should be evenly deployed in these other environments. If planting these red mangers is here on King Milan Street, investing in additional sources for our better-looking city, we support it anyway. I must point out the following, that if these mangers imported from Hungary employ additional funds that the citizens of Serbia have given, then, these are red mangers, and someone has said earlier that communism has arisen and that the past, however, we are introducing communism here, right on King Milan's street next to our assembly. In the spring, if they can bloom, the entire street of King Milan will be red. That's why we're confused, and we're socialists, and especially communists, that novelty and that skill, we couldn't even imagine. You have now restored the redness of our congregation. For this reason, we support it as one pelcher, but not as a pelzer that will allow, it is a municipal infrastructure, we advocate the Jasen, but also the red Jasens, especially in Kosovo, in southern Serbia, especially in Shumadija, Vojvodina, in Pozarevec, Smederev, not only in Belgrade, Novi Sad and other cities. For that reason, we're not just spending Zoki's money on these extra elections, we're spending money where it's supposed to be. We're in favour of additional funding in other environments. For this reason, we believe that this bill should be withdrawn, consulted by local self-government and agreed on what is also the criterion in the bill given and not achieved.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25289	Nine minutes and 40 seconds. This has spent time at the disposal of the SPS parliamentary group, so unfortunately, MPs Joca Arsic and Đura Lazic cannot take part in the debate in principle. There are no more entries on the lists of MPs for the word. Before I conclude a principled search, I ask whether the Presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 89 want to do so. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? Yeah. ) The speech is attended by MP Jovan Todorovic, an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25290	Mrs. Comic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am in no luck at all to have this presentation attended by Minister Djelic, but anyway, I would like to point out to you a few of the remarks that we had in the first part of the exhibition, which Minister Djelic did not respond to, because he thus found fit to establish something that is not true here for this speaker. Right, it is not true that Mr Djelic's claim that all municipalities in the Republic of Serbia received more funding through this schedule than it was in 2002. So that's not true, because there are three municipalities that have received significantly less funding than the law in 2002. I said it was Loznica, and it's 7,200,000 dinars. I said it was Dog and Big City. That's right. And if the criteria applied here were applied, so the rise in the price of 14.1% and the real growth of the social product of 5%, then these municipalities would have increased the funds in the nominal amount by at least 20%. Unfortunately, here some municipalities have received up to 10% less in nominal terms, and in a realistic double that was the case in the previous year. Secondly, I wanted to point out to you some data that might best illustrate the SPS's position in the sense that they would not accept the bill. I was talking about inaccuracies in the implementation of the 2002 census and the fact that in all municipalities in Serbia, we happened to have fewer inhabitants than in 2002. In some municipalities, this difference is drastic. So the Loznica is about 27,000 people ladies and gentlemen, and this is a whole small town or a whole one municipality, and it's impossible that these people are suddenly, that the residents of one municipality have evaporated and there are none in particular, which in this material is said to have taken into account the number of refugees in terms of the population criteria. I'll tell you a few specific figures when it comes to the number of refugees in the area of the Municipality of Loznica. So that's yesterday's data. In the area of Loznica municipality, we have 9,262 people with refugee status, 8,687 people from Bosnia and Herzegovina, 575 new citizens of the township of Republika Srpska, 210 displaced persons from Kosovo and Metohija and 3,000 displaced from Republika Srpska. So, those who have avoided the exceptions of the Muslim-Croatian Federation in Republika Srpska, and then disbanded and forwarded to the Republic of Serbia and today have the status of refugees in the municipal municipality. It is true that about 30% of them only registered on this list, and 70% did not want to be written as citizens of Serbia with residence on the territory of the municipality of Loznica. The fact is that these people exist and in previous times there were even 20 or 30,000 people with refugee status in the municipality of Loznica. So that's what I wanted to point to. Secondly, a criterion that applied to citizens who are temporarily living abroad with their families. We have 3,090 citizens exactly according to the list that are located somewhere abroad on permanent work, alone or with their families. If we didn't count either of them as residents of the township and count no man with refugee status, which is 13,000. Where's 27,000? It's one of the problems I'm pointing to, and it's certainly contributed to this funding schedule. Third, take a look at the entire projections of the planned sales tax in certain municipalities. I tried to group municipalities to the surface, according to the number of inhabitants, according to some real economic strength that I consider to be roughly equal, at least to the number of inhabitants. So those that could be comparable. Then take such data, the estimated sales tax in the municipality of Valjevo in 2003 is 1,013,000,000. In the area of Vranje municipality 704 million, in the area of the municipality of Kraljev 1,370,000,000, and in Leskovec 1,133,000, in Novi Pazar 499, in Smederev 1,440,000,000, in Užica 1,043,000, in Čačka 1,721,000,000, in Šapec 1,329,000,000. Now the minister says, not the percentages are not important, absolute amounts are important in terms of the part that separates itself from the sales tax collected in the area of these municipalities. Now you come up with such an absurd situation that Cachak sets out in the Republic budget on the basis of the sales tax of 1,721.000,000, and on the same basis returns only 64 million to his municipal register. Or, let's say, take a brown town that sets out 1,440,000,000 and returns only 80 million, with a percentage of 5.6%. Who says it's not an important percentage? If it was 10%, it'd be 144 million. That's the point. So no one should throw dust in our eyes and tell us that we don't care about percentages. The truth is that the percentages are first calculated, i.e. the absolute amounts are calculated first, and then the percentage is determined on that basis. This percentage is objectively applied to the mass of taxes collected in the area of the municipality, especially if a smaller amount is collected than is designed by this law. When it comes to profit tax, a similar story can be told. These municipalities I was talking about will set out in the Republic budget based on the income tax, say Valjev 526 million, Vranje 680, Novi Pazar 312, Čačak 780, Užice 752 million. They'll get crumbs out of it, they'll only get 5%. For example, Uzice will get 37 million, Cachak 39 and so on and so on. Only if there is a problem, but it is precisely this data that limits the total amount of budget that can be collected in these municipalities during 2003. You have that the total revenues of municipalities, based on all the basics, and also on the grounds which are the subject of this law and other incomes, for example, in the area of the Loznica municipality can be 349 million, in Leskovec 656, in Valjev 603, in Čačka 784. Please, I remind you, Cačak, on the basis of a sales tax of 1,700,000 and on the basis of a profit tax of over 600 million in the Republic's register, has allocated 2,300,000. This law limits his total budget not to exceed 784 million. So these are the paradoxical situations that simply neutralize this story that Mr Djelic told us today. Of course, we are in favour of solidarity to help stronger municipalities make them weaker, but how are we going to motivate stronger municipalities to collect extra taxes on how fully they are aware that all tax or all their efforts on this plan will go somewhere in the state register and they will not benefit much from it. Worse still, we, with this tax policy, with this kind of detachment policy, are going to force municipalities to collect their services, and above all it is about compensation for municipal, or building land. When it happens in municipalities, because it's one way to cover all possible costs over one calendar year, then we have a situation that we're overpriced by land, that investors who would otherwise build something in the area of these municipalities have no chance of paying only land, let alone building buildings. So that's what I want to talk to you about here today and think hard about, that those amendments that are proposed here are logical, they're meaningful, and they're trying to correct exactly these disparities and illogicalities that came up in the bill of law. So it's not just that we stubbornly insist on some percentages or some absolute amounts, but to figure out where it's actually in the budget of a municipality. The peak of absurdity is, the municipalities that help in some way at least relatively, because they can't even cover the minimum of their costs. On all terms, when Loznica, for example, has 14.1% of the participation in sales tax, and Cačak 3.6%, the password budget is limited to 349 million, and Cachanski to 784. Cachanski should be three times bigger, but it would have to be at least 500 million to meet all previous criteria in terms of material costs in primary and secondary schools, child care, etc. I have a way, and you, sir, if you've got something to go out for this pay phone, so tell me why there's a law to be passed, why there's no need to adopt. I'm saying what the problems are in this law. The minister has avoided this debate and thinks he is the only one right in this House. I don't think so.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25291	Are any of the other representatives or presidents of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? (No) I hereby conclude the search in principle and in agreement with Article 136(3). I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to review the draft law in particular. National MP Siniša Mitrovic, proposed by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25292	The President-in-Office, honourable fellow Members, in accordance with Article 137. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly suggest that the time for discussion should last for three minutes. I'm sure we have amendments that make quantification of this decision, so that'll be quite enough to argue.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25293	I would like to put to the vote the motion of MP Sinisa Mitrovica to limit the time of debate in particular by amendment to three minutes. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I'm closing the vote. For 67, against 46, there were no abstentions, there was no 51 vote, a total of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal of the MP Sinisha Mitrovica. I remind the MPs that it is time to discuss the amendment to the business five minutes. On 2nd item B. subpoints 29, 68, 73, 74, 82, 83th and 104th amendments were submitted jointly by MPs Dusan Cvetković, Radojko Petrovic, Nebojsa Jović, Hranislav Perić, Jovan Todorovic and Joca Arsic. The word is by MP Dusan Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25294	Dear Presidency, fellow MPs, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group Radojko Petrovic, Nebojsa Jovic, Hranislav Peric, Joca Todorovic, Joca Arsic and I submitted the amendment to Article 2. position 1. On a regular number of 29 - Great Plan to increase the amount of funds by about 3 million dinars, on a regular number of 68 - Kursumli to increase by about 4, on a regular number of 73 - when it comes to Leskovac by about 177 million, on a regular number of 74 - Loznica 20 million, on a regular number of 83 - Merošina 5 and on a regular number of 104 - Prelude 8 million. All these cities I mentioned have serious problems. The Great Plan has even made an account of funds with an error of 7,000 inhabitants. The position of the municipality that was underdeveloped has not been seen in Kurzumlia. The Municipality of Loznica did not consider the infrastructure problems and its position as a border municipality. Medvedje also found no need, given its position, to be in a border belt with Kosovo and Metohija, i.e. it has a serious and mixed population structure. The municipality of Merošin did not have sufficient regard for weak infrastructure, and in the municipality of Prepolje it was necessary in a more adequate way to look at the geographical position, the large depravity of the settlement and the large territory of the municipality, which conditioned the functioning of all the social activities financed from the budget. As you can see, the biggest increase we have proposed as an SPS parliamentary group precisely for Leskovac, for Leskovac as the fifth city in the Republic, and that is in fact the position of the SPS parliamentary group, which we are proving that the Socialists are seriously considering what the south of Serbia should look like against what the government is thinking and talking. Leskovac as a city with 1,025 square kilometers, as a city with 168,000 inhabitants, as a city with 130,000 voters, who hope to see me now, and I am speaking to them right now to tell them that here I suppose we are doing our best to convince DOS and Mr. Minister, who is absent, that Leskovac should meet because he has terribly large infrastructure problems. I talked about them this morning, but I have to mention again, because you DOS listen very little, so I hope you know how, not to mention that saying about repetition. Therefore, Leskovac was found with these problems so that he was practically and without a sanitary dump, I would say without any garbage disposal, city trash. Leskovac is a city that has terrible problems with resolving the water issue, because the water system "Barje", which was started recently and which was to be brought to a complete end now is not yet finished. Leskovac will face very serious problems if the water system "Barje", as the DOS government, i.e. as the forced administration of Leskovec argues, must spend a whole 10 years to end the water system "Barje", so I think it is necessary that, within the budget, the resources, which are allocated to solve infrastructure problems, Leskovac increase the funds by about 177 million dinars dedicated to the completion of the water system "Barje" so that Leskovac can start supplying water in the next two years. I'm saying this because you may not know it, and someone is laughing and unfortunately from the doctor, Leskovac has Vucje and Boeing areas of the terrible problems associated with very severe kidney disease, which are caused only by water and the resolution of the Barja system, the area would be left without the problem of nephritis that plagues the areas of Vucija and Boeing. I ask the government to consider and to know what nephritis is and what the hell it is for this neighborhood. I know that this amendment will experience the same fate as last year's amendments we endured, because it has been proven that this government and Mr. Djelic loves Leskovac as the quack loves the jug.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25295	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? (No) The People's MP Slavoljub Matic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. The amendmentr wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25296	I will not participate in such pre-election professions. I don't think this is the right place to bid on anyone here as much as they love their city. That's why, with a group of DSS MPs, I handed over this amendment, which, at least, wants some kind of irregularity to correct. Irregularity refers to one cut, different, according to the municipalities. We have 30 municipalities that have less than 1,000 dinars per capita in that volume of sales tax. So this is an attempt to make something we've seen, to generalize the problem and sort of fix it for 30 municipalities. The amendment reads: In the proposal for a law on the volume of funds and the participation of municipalities and cities in profit and sales tax in 2003, in Article 2 after item b, it should be added: "the annual amount of funds returned to municipalities under heading b cannot be less than 1,000 dinars per capita". So this is an attempt to make this law more just. In principle, I mentioned several examples in the discussion that I wanted to show how these municipalities, according to us, were damaged. We believe that many municipalities achieve a large tax on transport, a large turnover in legal flows, so it would be unfair to punish these municipalities with a low percentage of participation. I also mentioned the example of the Fireman, though, for the sole reason that I know the example best, an example where we have the population as a parameter, and we have seen for ourselves that the population can be added plus and minus 10,000 added or subtracted. In my opinion, it's an incredible circumstance. Also, we mentioned a number of accidents in municipal infrastructures. I think a proper cut can make this law more just. Madam Vice President, I must also say that the Finance Committee has no position on these amendments. I'm going to regret why we don't have those attitudes. The Finance Committee had no quorum on several occasions. I have personally tried to attend all scheduled sessions, but many MPs who swear here to parliament and the obligation of Members of Parliament to work regularly in the bodies of this Parliament, I must say that the MPs from that parliamentary group did not attend the Finance Committee. I think that's inadmissible. I think it is inadmissible that this House on such an important law does not have the position of a Committee of Resistants.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25297	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. ) The related amendments to Article 2 of point A of point 1, 2, 3 and 4 of sub-paragraphs 50, 94 and 124 and to point A of point 1, 2, 3 and 4 of point B of sub-paragraph 58, 114 and 148 were submitted jointly by MPs Bojan Kostreš and Novica Đurašković. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? The word is made by MP Novica Djuraskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25298	I'm not from Leskovec and I'm not going to tell you about Leskovec. I'm from kickinda, and I'm not talking about kickinda either. And we have a garbage problem in kickinda, too, but we're doing it pretty successfully because some of them went to the dump in history, so now we can do it. We tried to set some criteria, not just some local patriotism and not just some advertising. We don't need a promotion for this pay phone. We promote ourselves in cities and municipalities where we work and where we live. We believe that they should not be in a subordinate position of a municipality that has more than 100,000 inhabitants, which is, in Vojvodina, Subotica, Pančevo and Zrenjanin. That is why we have submitted an amendment to Article 2 and related to Article 3, where that injustice would be corrected. There is no reason for similar populations, similar to municipal problems, municipalities I mentioned or one Kragujevac, Nis, which is much larger than these municipalities, to be in such a position as to receive far more funding from this budget. I expect these amendments to be accepted. I will not report on the amendment to Article 3, because if we accept the amendment to Article 2, then a correction in Article 3 will have to be made.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25299	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments related to each other, with a correction, to Article 2 B of sub-paragraph 52 and to Article 3 of point B of sub-paragraph 61, were submitted by MP Marjan Rističević. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He's not present. ) Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. ) The related amendments to Article 2 of point B of point 128 and Article 3 of point B of subpoint 153 were submitted by MP Miomir Tadic. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He's not present. ( ) Are any of the authorized participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments, with a correction, to Article 2 B of sub-point 135 and to Article 3 of sub-point 160, were submitted jointly by the MPs Miroslav Martic, Natasa Mićić, Bogoljub Zečević, Zoran Mićović, Milka Marinkvoić, Branko Beševic, Predrag Mijailović, Zeljo Hurić, Vukosav Tomaševic, Sladjan Mijalović, Zoran Ćirković, Vasilija Pavić and Radojko Petrovic. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? The word has the People's MP Miroslav Martic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25300	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, a group of 13 MPs have tabled an amendment. Namely, she has submitted two amendments that are related to each other. Of these 13 MPs, six are from different parliamentary clubs, and seven are from different political parties. Namely, all the MPs of the Zlatibor County have submitted these two amendments, with the exception of SRS MPs from Bajina Basta, but he also said that there is nothing in principle against this amendment. This amendment applies to Article 2(1) and is required to replace the dinar amount of 97,246,693 in point 135. Second amendment to point 160. - Slightly, number four, replace the number 4.4. The explanation of the amendments is that this amendment refers to the historical archive of Uzica, which is of exceptional importance, territorial and organisational, for the entire Zlatibor district, or 10 municipalities of the Zlatibor County, plus Ivanica from Moravia County, which also belongs organisationally to this historical archive. The historical archive in Užica is located in the municipality building, in the basement rooms, which are in very poor condition, and partly in dislocated rooms. This building is prone to decay. The Ministry of Culture, along with So Užice and other municipalities, began a new building of the historical archives ten years ago, and this building was partly built. Practically, it's stiff. Over the past ten years, there has been insufficient funds to complete it, and it takes about 35 million dinars to complete it. The deal with the Ministry of Culture is that the ministry provides 50% of these funds and 50% to provide other municipalities of the Zlatibor district and Ivanica. We have suggested, in particular, that this agreement on the pooling of common funds is quite difficult, that this amendment ensures an increase of funds in the SO Užica budget for some 15 million dinars, and that So Užice assumes the obligation of all the other ten municipalities and, together with the Ministry of Culture, to complete this building of the historical archive. Since we have the support of both opposition and positional MPs of the Zlatibor District, I hope the Finance Committee and the minister will also have the understanding of this amendment. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25301	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, we move on to Article 3. On 3rd point B. subpoints 10, 29, 46, 64, 86, 115, 129, 132, 134 and 158 of the amendment, MPs Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukić and Adam Urosevic submitted together. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicant for the amendment? The word is made by MP Dragan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25302	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, considers the Serbian Unity Party to be in one dozen cities (at least we have so much time to explain, although the problem is all the cities in Serbia, when it comes to the part that returns to cities and municipalities) a very small percentage. I'll just give you a few municipalities, where we think it's planned for a small percentage to return to those municipalities. In Batocina municipality, 17.1 is replaced by a percentage of 20.9. The Great Plan, 7.7 is replaced by a percentage of 12.1, Despotovac, 18.8 is replaced by a percentage of 25.4. Despotovac is a small poor municipality and we think that the government, or minister, should accept this proposal, given that health care is in a very difficult situation in Despotovac. I said this morning that the state hospital there is very poor, there are two private offices, the owners are two doctors. One is Dr. Trifunovic and another is Dr. Pavkovic. The two of them have private offices and don't take care of the state hospital, so all the citizens in the Despotovac municipality, when they get sick and go to checkup, go to these two offices. We believe that this higher percentage, which we have suggested, is necessary for this municipality, given that this municipality is in a very difficult situation. However, behind Mr. Pavkovic stands the former head of the municipality, Racic, in the municipality of Despotovac, who was the president of the municipality and Pavkovic was the director of the House of Health. All the drugs, the ones they were getting from charity aid from donations, they were taking these drugs to Mr. Racic's pharmacies and now they're watching, through this newly formed party, this Socialist People's Party, to come back to power, but I don't think they're gonna make it. The Municipality of Lapovo, 5.6 is replaced by a percentage of 12.1, the Municipality of Paracino 5.3 is replaced by a percentage of 10.4. In the municipality of Paracino, cement was sold, it is known to everyone, and most of the money went to the government of the Republic of Serbia. Instead of accepting the amendment that we have proposed to keep part of the pair in Paracina and to help two factories, glass mills and stalls, which employ over 4,000 workers, and these workers are now out of work, the government had no hearing at the time, and it doesn't seem now. In the municipality of Razanj 45.8 is replaced by a percentage of 53.1. We believe that the Municipality of Razanj is a small municipality and that never, never, not even the former ruling party, has taken care of Raznja. The municipality of Rekovac 43.9 is replaced by a percentage of 51.3. The Svilajnac municipality is replaced by a percentage of 12.9 per cent. In Svilinco, everything also cares, nothing works, a very small percentage of people return to this municipality. The municipality of Cupria 10% is replaced by a percentage of 23.2. In this municipality, too, nothing works, no sugar, no MIP, INGRAP, DECON, a large number of young people are out of work in this municipality, and the government has no hearing when it comes to the municipality, so I mentioned this morning, or I proposed to the Minister for Local Self-Government, Mr. Sabic to schedule extraordinary local elections there, because the session SO has not been held in the last 7-8 months, and two people have the funds in this municipality. These mentioned municipalities have a large number of Serbs from Cosmeta in their locations. Nobody takes care of them. They were only invited when they were scheduled to go to elections, local elections, and those republican elections, which were called at Cosmet, and today no one takes care of them. They were suspended from assistance from 18 to 65 years of age, and on the other hand we did not provide them, or DOS did not provide them with any work. Also, in these municipalities, agriculture was developed, and we felt, since the government doesn't care about agriculture, nor the resolute minister, the one who had a nice haircut, when he was here that day, these agricultural engineers, as well as agricultural producers in Vojvodina, don't know what the price of grain is. I asked him, and he went out for this pay phone and said that only God knows, and he forgets that God didn't send him to the Republic Assembly and that God didn't vote him, but the people of Serbia, so the agricultural producers lost their answers.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25303	You've been speaking for six minutes. You can also use the time available to you, as president of the parliamentary group, for up to ten minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25304	Thank you. There's no regressed oil. The regulated oil was promised by this government. There's no credit, and it's known that agricultural producers can't start without credit. Then, there are many empty stables, not only in these municipalities, which are mentioned here in my discussion, but in all of Serbia, a large number of stables are empty, and that the resolution minister does not want to provide them with credit and that agricultural producers return to production and that they can live and be good to the Serbian government. It is obvious that the Serbian government is not taking care of these inner cities. I will tell you what the price of the bus ticket in Jagodina is for 15 km from village to town, not only in Jagodina, but in all other cities in Serbia, except Belgrade. Between 30 and 45 dinars, with 20 dinars in Belgrade. We have nothing against it, but why should we from the inside always be humiliated and not be foreseen in the budget, such as the intended cities in Serbia? Finally, let me say that the Soviet Union will not vote for this proposed law for the reasons mentioned, and we believe that this budget is not good and that is why we will not vote for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25305	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? (Branislav Ivković, from town: Replica. ) National MP Branislav Ivkovic, you have the right as president of the parliamentary group, and you are looking for a replica. What's the basis for the replica? You have the right to discuss amendments as president of the parliamentary group. Are you familiar with the party's last names? Right on line, MP Branislav Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25306	I'm sorry you may not have noticed yourself while you were talking, but you've been trying in a rather pervasive sense to mention the Socialist People's Party. I need those viewers who are now involved, who did not listen to your presentation in the morning, to say that I am truly very pleased with the fact that you who have such a powerful media machine that you acquired in the previous period, and as a successful businessman, use even the assembly speaker to try to deal with a really one and real candidate for the president of the municipality, and that for Despotovac, with Dr Pavkovic. In this regard, Dr Pavkovic is obviously a man with deep roots in his hometown, who lives with his parents, who is there with his children... Hello, what are you talking about? Sir, if you'd like to-- hello, take the phone booth, so please contact me there, and I know that it's very difficult for you from the DSS now that it's happened, I apologize, Madam Chairman, but I would ask you to continue my presentation...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25307	I ask the Members of Parliament to obey the Rules of Procedure with respect to all speakers and to comply with the obligations of Articles 100 and 101. Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25308	It is clear that each of us in this room presents his parents with his behavior, and if someone in his house has learned to talk to - hello, and to those with whom he talks, it speaks more about parents than about himself. Mr. Markovic, Dr. Pavkovic is a candidate of the Socialist People's Party, we are extremely pleased that such a man is a candidate and we deeply believe that he will receive citizens' trust in Despotovac, as well as Mr. Gojko Veličkovic in Leskovac. I, as president of the Socialist People's Party, like the fact that you, besides your Palma plus, use this pay phone to try to deal with the candidates of the Socialist People's Party in your aura, and you obviously consider it your pasture, because this is the only place you've stood up for the cities of the Pomorie area. Indeed, one MP earlier this afternoon was right to say that it was very difficult to speak about this bill because man cannot avoid such patriotism. For many of us, it would be better not to go out for a pay phone, to stand up for our cities, because there are other cities. (Dear Markovic, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25309	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? You don't have the right to say a word since you've taken advantage of your time as an applicant for the amendment and as president of the parliamentary group, and you've caused a replica. If no one ever answers again, we move to Article 3. On 3rd point B. subpoints 29, 40, 49, 83, 89, 99, 100, 112, 127, 129 and 135 amendments were submitted jointly by MPs Dusan Cvetković, Radojko Petric, Nebojsa Jović, Hranislav Perić, Jovan Todorovic, Joca Arsic and Ljubomir Mucic. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? Yeah. ) National MP Joca Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25310	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, I consider myself not to be unnatural, but I'm not even in Bannet's party. As the chairman, Mrs Comic said, a group of MPs submitted an amendment to Article 3 of the proposed law on the participation of municipalities and cities in profit and sales tax in 2003, which is also associated with Article 2 and the proposed changes in absolute amounts, and considered that in this part of the proposed municipalities where an increase in absolute amounts is proposed, adequate and collection of funds for these proposed changes must be ensured. It also proposed corrections in participation rates, so, as said in the regular number of 29 Great Plans of 7.7, it is proposed to be 9.2%. Regular number 40 Gajn Han instead of 16.2% is replaced by 23%. In Doljevac, the percentage of 22.6 is replaced by 30.6 per cent. Bullet, percentage of 27.8 is replaced by a percentage of 30. Furthermore, Leskovac percentage 12.2 is replaced by a percentage of 27, Medvedja percentage of 60,5 is replaced by a percentage of 83,4, Merošina percentage of 22,3 is replaced by a percentage of 25,3, the percentage of the average of 27,2 is replaced by a percentage of 32,2 Preložina percentage is replaced by a percentage of 25,8 is replaced by a percentage of 45,8 is replaced by a percentage of 63,1 and a Svrlig percentage of 28 is replaced by a percentage of 43,3. In this way, it is proposed to allow these adjusted rates also to increase these absolute amounts, as is the case with these municipalities which are also proposed by amendment to Article 2 of the Law that we are talking about. I would like to say one more thing, here in the debate, the minister, explaining the law, said that these rates are corrected and secured and Article 4 provides additional funds where income is achieved through the allowed, and by balance, 50% of the funds remain local self-government, and 50% goes into the budget from that more accumulated part at this rate. However, the practice has been that for several years now, and here for the third or fourth time, corrections are being made down, making it impossible for municipalities to make those revenues more effective. On the one hand, we are talking about the need to leave more independence to local self-government, to stimulate more production, more traffic, better fund-raising, greater control, and, on the other hand, through the constant reduction of these amounts and these rates, it is possible for the part that goes through this part to be reduced and the assembly of municipalities, i.e. local self-government, to raise the basic resources to meet their basic needs. It's already said here, and I want to point out again which is why on one occasion it is, someone can say local patriotism, and man can talk about the environment that comes best from, and I can't talk about what it's like in Subotica, or in Indjia, I can talk about how it's in the Great Plan. That's where two rough mistakes were made. First, the population was reduced by a total of 7,000. Apparently, they're workers abroad, there's not that many of them at all. If the Great Plan has 39,500 voters, it cannot have 44,000 inhabitants and cannot be denied on this basis. It can, if it's on Kostunica's system and if this incorrect statistical data is applied, but I'm telling you that 7,000 have no workers abroad. That number is correct and that's 2,000. The second thing, it is wrongly taken as a criterion, because their members live there, exercise rights, these workers and when they come, and come once or twice a year, all their rights are realised in these municipalities, even strengthened because they need to take out the confidence of children's allowances and confidence in their property, the beliefs they need to exercise their rights in the countries where they work. Therefore, they have an increased need to address local authorities and administrations in order to obtain certain data. One more thing, I'm finishing up, this is where the Great Plan came into a rough mistake, a total of 12 primary education departments, is reduced and is about 640,000 in total. I ask that it be re-checked and that the correct data be determined, and that can be explicitly determined, if this is already a problem this is absolutely an exact fact. There are exactly 234 primary schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25311	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, we move on to the amendment to Article 6 submitted jointly by the MPs Đura Lazić, Ljubisa Maravić and Sreten Mitrovica. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Đura Lazic. The amendment submitted by this group of MPs is the last to submit an amendment to the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25312	On behalf of the SPS, we have submitted an amendment to Article 6. With this amendment, we propose to delete the text "in a consolidated account of the Republic's vault" in Article 6's position and instead to stand "in the Fund for the AP of Kosovo and Metohija". Why are we suggesting this? The adoption of this amendment creates the possibility for the Serbian government to set up a fund for AP Kosovo and Metohija, which can solve a number of citizens' problems in Kosovo and Metohija, and above all Serbs, Montenegrins, non-Albanian live, but also displaced, because it is not just about financing the municipal administration and beneficiaries of the municipal budget. We think that through this fund we would solve many of the social problems citizens face in Kosovo and Metohija, as well as in migration. Then, they would solve the problems of workers who worked in the economy, and now they are jobless and with no means to live. The fund would stimulate the work of small businesses in the Serb oasis in Kosovo and Metohija and many other issues citizens face in the area. I think that for the establishment of such a fund and the adoption of this amendment there would be a solid basis, because just to give some facts. For example, the special fee for Kosovo and Metohija paid during the sale of goods in Kosovo and Metohija is 5% based on the value of goods. On this basis, it works, for the period from 21 February 2001 to 20 March 2002, meaning 13 months, it also charged 442.978,000 dinars or 7,383,000 euros. About 561,000 euros are collected monthly on this basis. I think that these means could be largely addressed through the AP Kosovo and Metohija funds to address many issues and many of the problems people face, and the confirmation of the justification of our amendment to the council, also speaks in the text of the government's proposal on the 16th paragraph of the first paragraph, where it is said, among other things, that no temporarily displaced persons from the AP Kosovo and Metohija territory have entered this population. The municipality's objections to the number of inhabitants could not be accepted, as clearly the presidents of the municipalities, having regard to this problem, asked for an increase in funds on this basis, but their demands were not respected. It seems that displaced people from Kosovo and Metohija are neither in heaven nor on earth. They don't fit in here and we deny them the right to work, to live. Through this fund for AP Kosovo and Metohija, I think that in many ways the government could solve important issues and significant problems and pave the way for a more comprehensive view and solution of all the problems people from Kosovo and Metohija face. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25313	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. This concludes the examination of the bill in particular. Does the Proposer, or the Proposer's representative, want to give the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. This concludes the fifth item of the agenda. We move to the 6th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on the Budget System You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted on the draft of the law: joint MPs Jovan Todorovic, Ljubomir Mucic, Mr Radojko Petrovic and Prof. Dr Bora Stanimirović; joint MPs Mr Radojko Petrovic, Joca Arsic and Milos Nesovic and individual MPs Cedomir Jovanovic and Bratoljub Janacković. The amendments that will be filed until the law is opened will be sent to you in the course of the debate in principle. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you, according to Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of members of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, the presidents or the representatives, that, as long as they have not already done so, they have submitted statements for the word, so that a order of MPs can be made under the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and on the receipt of the lists by parliamentary groups. In accordance with Article 136(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a principled search (16.50 hours). Does the Proposer's representative want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a minister of finance and economy of the Government of the Republic, Mr Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25314	On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, it is my great honor, Mrs Komic, to propose amendments and additions to the Law on the Budgetary System that should be laid down in advance on the bulky side of the records of our public incomes and expenditures, to institutionally strengthen the transparency of public finances and further specify who, and under what conditions, can be made available to the money coming from the pockets of our taxpayers. So what has been going on for many years, with us, and especially in the 1990s, has been one issue, and these are the relations between business banks and state money, being done in a valid and transparent way, and especially to unarped professionalism in the management of these funds. The motion ahead of you has four key points. I would very briefly like to explain all these four key points and suggest that you adopt this amendment and supplement of the Budgetary System Act. Before we reach these four points, I would like to point out that these changes and additions are also amendments and additions to one system law, although our legal system does not know as much as in many other countries, including continental Europe, something between the law and the Constitution. As the practice of this year has shown, the Law on the Budgetary System in Truth plays the role of one organic or system law, because if we look at all the points of the agenda and this is the last point of this session around the budget laws, we can see that this Bill on the Budget System has had a very profound impact on everything we've talked about in the last few days. This applies to the final account, through the budget law, through the law on the budget of local self-government, the calendar of adoption, the accuracy of the documentation, and now to some institutional changes proposed here. What are those four innovations? The first concerns and this is an innovation that is institutional in nature. The establishment of a public payment administration is proposed. This is not the original institution in the sense that the functions performed by the Public Payments Administration already exist and the Office for Accounting and Payment as part of the National Bank of Yugoslavia is already performing them. So the intensity in this first part is to take over what needs to be taken into account the continuity of some state functions from what the Office of Accounting and Payment is doing and not to stop at, to gradually introduce so-called. Treasury functions and in this administration, in terms of much better budget implementation, transparency in it and much better predictability for both users and those bodies that run public finances on a local new, province level or at our country level. The Public Payments Authority is, if you will, one of the two functions to be taken over when the PDO and the transfer of payment traffic to business banks are scheduled to be abolished on 1 January. That's where we were taught the experience, not some experience that's far from us, but a very direct experience of the former SFRY republics, and I can say that things have binarized. Those republics that have in a regulated way predicted which administrations will take over what is the state function of the PDO today and on the income and distribution side are well past and I am talking about Macedonia and Slovenia and to a lesser extent about Croatia, and those like Bosnia and Herzegovina and if we take the experience of Republika Srpska in particular, which simply abolished what was SDK, PDO, ZAP or what was called in the various former Yugoslav republics, did not foresee adequate regulation and the institution to continue to perform these state functions. They had huge difficulties both on the income and on the dispensary side. You will notice that several weeks ago, by adopting the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, one number, one part of that law explicitly predicts that some functions, which have been performed by the PDO so far, are transferred to the tax administration and all of this is already foreseen in the sense that what was the previous control so-called. The stamping for the payment of earnings will be changed to one subsequent control by the tax administration and, of course, will be a lot of words, but this is not today's agenda point. On this side, however, and this is where this whole reform and institutional venture and reform is being circled, this time on the dissipating side, what must be left is recorded if we want to have well done and transparent public finances, this time on the dissipating side. The Public Payments Administration should also be able to remain what will allow at any moment in this country to know how much state money there is, where and if it is located somewhere where it is placed and known, and this will be gradually and determined, in the implementation of the budget at all levels that are control functions and who should be approved at all times, should be controlled and implemented. This is not fully prepared at this time, nor will it be fully completed until next year. It's one process, if it's a Slovenian experience and they're a lot of resources, people, techniques, information in it used. We've been working very closely with them, as well as with our other colleagues throughout this year, and it's gonna take us a few more years for the Public Payments Authority to really take over the so-called. vault functions. To start with what's first-class and to use one little word out, but it seems to me that the one in the domain of public finances can be used, it's in the national interest that we don't break public income accounts records and thus also public expenditure accounts. In this way, we will have one institution that will serve all levels of government and local self-government, the province, of course, and cities, of course, of Serbia's budget, direct and indirect users of that budget, and there will be more words about it when it comes to the agenda, and it seems to me that it will be quite quickly. It will also serve the authorities of the future state union of Serbia-Montenegro. In line with what is now foreseen in the Draft Constitutional Charter and the law to be implemented, the institution will also play a significant role in the implementation of the budget and the community, so that we will have what some of the former Yugoslav republics have managed to save wisely in terms of efficiency and transparency. We'll have one of those institutions. She'll be a super-recorded type at first. It will be known how much money there is where and what concerns the domain of Serbia's level, direct and indirect budget users, there will be a gradually inserted number so-called. Treasury functions, previous controls, the possibility that at the time of one order, it is known whether the order belongs to the financial plan, it is known when it is to be carried out, whether it belongs to that quota i.e. The maximum amount of public expenditure given by a direct or indirect budget user may be spent at a given moment, so that in some future which is due to a difficult and daily process being counted in years, the vision of the idea is, according to which this is going and this is one significant step, which is to be known at the beginning of one financial year, to be made one of its kind, if I may take one expression, the tunnel of those tasks which will all together in terms of paying what is approved in the Budget Act, form one budget implementation rhythm, so that if I take one example, if I have to turn something in return to one hospital, that this indirect budget beneficiary of the Republic of Serbia will form in advance of that mandate, that it is known that this order should be carried out on 15 April or 15 November, that in return, the body in charge of finance, in this case of the Ministry of Finance and Economy, in which case, at that moment, in fact, the amount of the amount of money, not only in which is necessary, at the time, in which is not later, the amount of the money, in which is necessary, in which is necessary, in the amount, in which is not later. As you can see, there is one very important idea behind it, and this idea is optimization in the management of all the resources that the Republic has. This is about cash. Today, the implementation of the budget at all levels is still primitive in the sense that we are far from that vision where a concrete act of budget execution should be pedantically planned, arranged and that, only at that moment, the exact amount of funding by the body in charge of the financing that should be implemented. Today, budget implementation is much closer to the approximation and one limitation of available funds. Still at all levels and your local experience is certainly the same, and we haven't gotten to that level yet. For now, every direct and indirect budget user needs funds. There is one painful process that is almost daily, where the resources available are allocated, and there is no certainty at any time that what is transferred to the accounts of budgetary direct and indirect users is what is really necessary at that time and in that amount. Only one proof, in terms of ineffectiveness of the system, is the fact that today out of 60 billion dinars of deposits in the banking system belong to the state. This means, on the one hand, one good news, mostly at the level of the federal state and at the level of local self-government, which is that incomes are slightly higher than those envisaged and expect one rebalancing to be used, but on the other hand, that means that we have huge ineffectiveness in our system, in managing these scarce assets. It happens, and not rarely, that at a time when one budgetary is urgently in need of one asset, that they are not available at that moment, while at the same time from one budgetary user who is supposed to be in the same position, that he has the same rights as the first one, there is simply one deposit by sight or which is served by a business bank. Simply in this way, the state does not manage at any level effectively with its resources and that is what this public payment administration should provide for in one period. There are, of course, painful and many months of preparatory work and I am here to thank my colleagues from the NBJ, the PDO, the Tax Administration and all those domestic and foreign experts, and there are a lot of them who have helped form this project, in what has helped us to know today which perpetrators, where, as much as this is one administration that will have some 80 outposts in the buildings of today's PDO. There will be around 800-850 perpetrators, and in this way we will have one smooth budget implementation, starting from January 1st next year. I want here, including the first part of my presentation, to mention two things that were mentioned in the public debate on these proposed changes. These changes and additions in no way mean the recentralization of our public finances. If you look at the way this public payment administration is set up, it simply says -- instead of every vault, whether it's the vault of Serbia, the federal state, the future union of Serbia-Montenegro, the provinces, cities, local self-government, instead of building a similar administration, there are huge savings in forming a single such administration that I am now illustrating without being centralized at the same time. So this administration is not the instrument according to which the Ministry of Finance or the Government of the Republic of Serbia is due tomorrow to tell Ariel, Novi Sad, Vojvodina -- no, that money you have should be directed to this direction and that direction. Of course not. Secondly, this administration is in no way here to deny the availability of its own revenues from various direct and indirect budget users. For example, if one university has its own income, this administration and way of handling money is not the way some central vault wants to establish control of these funds. This would not be overall, because in the first wave, this would lead to bigger problems in the implementation of these budgets and, in one other mahu, would raise questions about the very concept of its own income. If they are in the same way, they should be treated as the budgetary revenues that these institutions have, then that means something else, and that's not what's being proposed here. The efficiency that we have here is that if you accept this amendment and the addition of the Budgetary System Act, in the cheapest way possible, this administration will enable payment traffic within the state. This means that when money goes from Serbia's budget to an indirect user, when it works for example, local self-government pays what is provided, for example, for the material expenditures of an indirect budget user of Serbia's budget - school, in which case no fees of banks will be paid, nor will a commission of the NBJ be paid for so-called. RTGS, which should allow payment traffic between those banks and, this time, the state. That way that service will be much cheaper. If we take Bosnia, Republika Srpska's experience, it shows that those who did not anticipate such an institution, not only lost in transparency, to know in one place neatly arranged what revenues and expenditures of the state at all levels, but it turned out to be a much less efficient system that cost the state a lot more. And in addition, what I'm saying is that through the entanglement of one such administration, we'll have the opportunity to propose additional functions for those local self-governments who want it, without coercion, whether it's a placement of available funds, whether it's functions in terms of vaults. This will be done according to some offer of these services of the Public Payments Administration, not in the light of some coercion that would be contrary to the principles set out in the Law on Local Self-Government, or in this law that we were just talking about. So much for public pay management. As for other innovations, these are consolidated vault accounts. I can say that this reform has caused great attention at the local level, at the level of the province, at the level of the budget, at the level of indirect budget beneficiaries. What's this about? It is a reform that will enable what we talked about earlier, and this is about better management of available resources. That means the consolidated vault account won't be one. Local self-government and the province will have their own, but with a consolidated account of the Republic's vault and tomorrow's state union, we will have one system of consolidated vault accounts that will at any moment enable effective management of the resources available. And here you have one transitional period, as you can see, next year, where we should have, at the level of the organ in charge of finance, optimization at that level, management of those funds. The third thing I'd like to say is that these changes and additions are closer arranged under what conditions and who can afford state money. We saw in the budget inspection reports last week that we haven't had enough of a system yet. These provisions allow those responsible for managing funding at local level, at the level of the province, at the state level and tomorrow at the level of the state community, to have in this way clear competences and responsibility to manage these money optimally. See, that's where I'd like to stop, how the relationship between state money and business banks should be organised. Let us remember a reform that the late Governor Avramovic carried out, which then gave up. The general practice in continental Europe is that the banker of the state is the central bank. In this place money is the safest, but in many countries in transition we see that we do not have such a clean model. Experience, and this bitter experience by some local self-governments who saw some of their deposits trapped in smaller banks and where Serbia's budget had to intervene, has shown that there are clear rules of play in the placement of state money, not only because of efficiency, but also because it would not happen tomorrow to those who run local self-government, the province, the state, that some money that should be used in terms of the Budget Law is not captured and lost because some business bank has problems. That is why in these changes and additions there is an empty period where the responsibility for handling goes to places where it should be, and that is in bodies that run finance, not thousands of points where today we have moments and a lot of unhealthy competition from business banks. I don't want to comment any further, because we have various memos and various ruthless examples of how this competition takes place. This should be done in a transparent way and that those in charge of finance manage the team, only them. However, this does not mean that there are many banks at stake today, that, as the late Governor Avramovic did, in one day we will withdraw deposits that are now in business banks, and as I mentioned earlier, 15 billion of them, out of 60 billion dinars. We already have one transitional period, until next year, and after that transitional period, a time in which the clear responsibility of those who run finance is established, to place these funds through a consolidated vault account. I think we will then come up with a situation where the state's deposit will gradually be reduced due to the optimization of funds and because even business banks in some perspective should not see the state, local self-government as their main committees and clients, but rather turn more and more to citizens, businesses and thus do what their trade is, which is to be business banks and not state banks. In this way, we will avoid the paradox that we are living with today, which is that the budget of the Republic of Serbia is in debt with a business bank that has a federal government deposit. Thus, the Republic of Serbia pays interest on money received from Serb taxpayers. It's an absurd thing to break up with. These changes and additions will make it possible. The last thing I'd like to say, which is the fourth, is that in these changes and additions, we're going to allow what's in the budget for the next year that you adopted a few days ago. It is that our country, which would be the last in Europe at this time in this sense, will begin to finance its budget deficit in a civilized way, which is through the broadcasting of securities of value. There will be no and no development of the capital market in Serbia unless Serbia's vault starts broadcasting short-term securities of value. It's the backbone of all capital markets. These bonds will be short-term at first, only for a few months, and it will also be a small amount. In this way, it will be possible to provide one false contribution, as they are called economists or financiers, according to which other securities of value will also be ranked, especially bonds issued by certain companies. It is the backbone of one capital market and, of course, the experience of all countries, not only developed, but also transition countries, the right way to finance one budget deficit. This last year, as you saw in the final account and in the budget discussed last year for 2000, in a huge amount of what borrowing in the banking sector is, it's borrowing from the NBJ. In a year or two, and that's the last tape that exists between the central monetary government and the state, to look at the exhumation, not so far from us, that way of borrowing is not suitable, because borrowing from the NBJ is a borrowing that has a strong credit multiplier, i.e. that it encourages the creation of monetary mass to a much greater extent than borrowing from companies, or from our population. In this way, there was a bond between fiscal policy, the issue of securities from one side, and the conduct of monetary policy. Our idea is to make it possible, over a year or two, to be able to fully finance the budget deficit in this world-renowned way, not through funding from the NBJ. Of course, behind that will be a number of provisions, it is far from our idea to make some rapid changes. This will gradually develop, but in this way we will allow both our citizens and our businesses, our banks that have available funds, to be able to invest in high-quality papers, and this will be a equally recognizable sign and securities of value, which will represent Serbia. That's it. Summing up one reforming law, in the sense that it also carries out institutional reform and enables the implementation of the budget and on the dispensing side to maintain transparency, and, if I may say so, to preserve what is good in the PDO, and that is its state function, which has enabled a very high degree of transparency on the income and the dissipating side for our public finances. There are not many countries, with the exception of the ex-Yugoslav republics, where literally at any moment you can know how much public income, how much public expenditure there is, where there is state money. I can say that this is one of the great achievements of the PDO, which at this point, when, in accordance with some of the principles of the market economy, payment turnover moves into business banks, we must not and should not lose. The fact that it's on the receiving side, which was also the story of what was done with the tax procedure law and the tax administration, which was done two weeks ago, we need to complete and determine on the dissipative side, through the establishment of a public payment administration. In addition, we have the opportunity to professionalise the management of available funds through the introduction of the vault account, to be much more efficient and to gradually, in the years to come, introduce various vault functions, without decentralisation of public finances and without quantifying the original incomes, our own incomes from various institutions. And finally, through this way, we allow Serbia's deficit to be financed in a world-wide manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25315	Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? There is a word from MP Dragan Tomic, deputy president of the National Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25316	Dear Members of the People's Parliament, I must say that this bill will not again cause positive effects in the local community. No matter what the minister said, I say he won't. I'm talking about the following facts, and they're cruel. I have to say that by changing the tax system, when the percentage of 1.3% of employees' earnings has been abolished, and it has been related to solidarity of housing, it has been causing huge negative effects in the area at local level for two years. These are harsh facts and they say that in all of Serbia, when it comes to the area, the area of public, residential, municipal construction in local communities, it works only in the area where the private sector has been able to self-initiately lend solidarity of housing, and when it comes to what public housing companies have funded, with that percentage, or the 0.5 that remains now, it shows that it does not work. I think it is one of the problems, which continues to take place in local self-government, and it will not have a positive effect in the next period, and in this law there are no criteria, nor are there specifics, through which to provide or strengthen the part that is important in local communities, because I should remind, in all local communities, in previous years, the average of 100, 200 to 300 apartments, by pooling the funds of working organisations, private entrepreneurs and individuals. The second segment I want to talk about is the development of rural local communities. The development of rural local communities has almost died. Malate no, there is no activity, there is no activity on the introduction of self-indulgence, and no existing parity is used, which used to be: 50% self-indulgence investment, and 50% of the reaction of a certain public, municipal or other body in the local community, which monitored the work. This primarily referred to a road company, in the area it was done. Then, a water company, in the local environments. There is almost no longer the possibility of this parity being respected. There is no such thing as the development of local communities at this point. They're only used to agitate themselves for the election. There is no longer any activity in local communities. The telephony in rural local communities is dead, new electrifications or repairs of electricity in rural meat communities are missing. There is no question about the construction of water, road and other infrastructures in local communities. These are essential elements, which show whether this law and the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia has effects where it should be, and these are citizens of the Republic of Serbia. So there's no effect, and I'm saying it's full of truth. In the end, you shouldn't be walking around the cities. Walk through these local communities and you'll see if the telephony project is going on, whether the pillars that were set up for electricity two years ago, if anyone even put a wire on them, or whether they've been placed on those poles by any traf. That serious investment part, which existed in the earlier period, simply disappeared, does not exist. Politics can be like this, or something like that, but definitely, these are the truths, and I think the citizens of Serbia understand this well. Furthermore, I have to admit that this part of the funds in local self-government units may have increased in nominal terms, but when it comes to trust in business, when it comes to additional funding from the municipalities budget, in the last year, and I expect in this year that there will probably be a number of competencies on local self-government units, so that even these existing budgets will not be able to finance everything that makes life in a city, that I'm not talking about the development of upgrades. It's culture, sport, art and everything that makes that cultural mile of a city. For example, in my Šapac, the Sabbath National Theatre is almost no longer working, although it was one of the most famous in Serbia and has had numerous successes in these so-called so-called ". years ago, which you're talking about. There was a great woman at the head of that theater. She lost her job today, called Zlatica Popovic. Serbian culture knows her, but for nothing, the theatre still doesn't work. Furthermore, what is also important, and it makes life in local communities and cities, this infrastructure job, it is an activity that is very important to me. Regardless of this primary effect, through this law, 99 municipalities will have no effect at all. Plans and programmes to be presented in the adoption of the local self-government budget will likely be a mere wish, as they will not be realised. There is no sublimation of activities in this plan, there is no investment code, very difficult to achieve this function. Not to mention the other part called the functioning of local self-government. A number of suits are in local self - administrations, numerous congregations barely function or move the quorum to function. It is difficult to make decisions that are in the general interest of citizens. These are facts that are cruel and represent the real truth where the budget of local units will be found next year. Next, when we put together this whole mile of activity and look on one side where the budget is, there's another part, and that's the economy in the local environment. In Serbia's economy, there is no co-operation in all local areas between local banks and business entities, no credit policy in the area, no primary production lending, raw materials procurement, everyone is waiting for what will happen to privatisation. So, there's no income that stays in local self-government units, the level of profits in local self-government, the tax on services falls, the total volume of sales taxes, and they stay in local self-government units. These are all the facts that will show that in the following year, the budget that we adopted and which is not good for me, because it will not be effective for what it really should have done, because it does not have that social communique, has no relation to agriculture quality, does not look at all sides of the position, it will divide into the budgets of municipalities in this way, so that it will continue to fall that level of infrastructure activity, that fundamental right will not be achieved, because all of Serbia's rights are being achieved either in local communities, or in local self-government units, or in municipalities. More rights come true in the Republic, but part of that mile will certainly not be a sublimation of this fact. So, when we put all these facts together, I don't think there's been a good redistribution of all these funds, there's a good plan on how to proceed. I think we're going to have a downturn in activity in the economy, not to speak in the development of infrastructure in local communities, and we're certainly not going to have one quality approach in culture or in those other forms of upgrade in local self-government units. We don't think this law is good and we won't support it for that reason. I didn't want to talk any further about individual municipalities, because you can go from community to municipality and everywhere problems are similar or different, but 99% of the problems can be identified in the same way. It's our attitude around this law and we won't support it anyway.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25317	Right on line, MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25318	In accordance with Article 97 of The Rules of Procedure, therefore, since I was directly called by the previous speaker, regretfully I must say, that it seems that no one in this room has listened to what the previous speaker has spoken about, or even the President of Parliament who had to notice that the previous speaker is not talking about the law on the budgetary system or amending the law on the budgetary system, but is talking about the draft law on the volume of funds and the participation of municipalities in the income tax and sales tax. Also, at the end of his presentation, did anyone hear or not, at the end of his presentation, say that his, call a parliamentary group consisting of people who do not have the right to be in parliament under the Law on the selection of MPs and by the Rules of Procedure and on the basis of the authority of the Administrative Committee should be outside this parliament, but by the will of the DOS, most of them are still here, although these mandates are in the previous elections, as applicants of the SPS electoral list now, in order to see on Friday, which is why these mandates were kidnapped, and of course, because of the support of the government. So, I regret once again to say, the previous speaker totally missed the subject, and no one in this room noticed that he was talking about a completely different law that was passed and debated in principle and debates on amendments. Indeed, a comment from someone special to all of that, it shouldn't be, do you agree?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25319	The right to replicate, MP Branislav Ivkovic, as president of the parliamentary group. The MP was given as an individual, a right to replication, and then challenged to the replica of the parliamentary group, and this is a representative of the parliamentary group, can, forever, and you used it, you used it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25320	In the performance of Mr Dragan Todorovic, the MP of the SPS, all the misery and misery of the Socialists in Serbia is reflected and the reason why the Socialists fell to such low branches. Imagine that Jeca's prosecutor reporting from the SPS. We really don't regret that people have lost their base, which he can't bring together ten people at the session in the municipal board election conference, and the Socialist People's Party's municipal board numbers over 400 members in the town of Pirot. I can only say this, it would be better if members of the SPS from the MP's club were secretly supporting the activities of the Socialist People's Party, and we'll be silent when they are wrong and we'll support them whenever we can, because the only chance we can finally have for the stability of this country is that one reformed wing of the Socialist People's Party appears essentially to counter the DOS regime, where I include the DSS. For the sake of truth, to repeat once again what every sparrow on the branch knows in Serbia, the Serbian Constitutional Court has disputed the constitutionality of Article 88. The law on the election of MPs, precisely because of DSS MPs, requires the DOS coalition to take their mandates away. Since the 88th and open public debate on the constitutionality of that member has been challenged, it is clear that the DSS has not been deprived of its mandates, and thus also to the MPs who have brought the few votes to the SPS at the time, and cannot be taken away from those mandates. At the same time, Mr. Todorovic, our lawsuit is under way at the Supreme Court of Serbia, which we ask to correct Mr. Sabic's decision and recognise the legality of the sixth extraordinary congress. It is the only chance to come to the unification of all Serbian Socialists. If Serbia's Supreme Court judges as well as the DOS minister, I call on all Serbian Socialists to join the Socialist People's Party and to create an opposition to the DOS regime. (Dragan Todorovic, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25321	No, you challenged the replica, there was no replica on the replica, this was the use of the right to replicate as the head of the parliamentary group that you challenged with the use of the right to replication, and it was caused by MP Dragan Tomic. We're done here. (National MP Jovan Todorovic requests a word. ) The word has the deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group, MP Tomislav Nikolic. Please, there's no replica on the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25322	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on 26 February this year we passed the Budgetary System Act, whose amendments and additions are proposed by this bill. The minister pointed to some novelties and some further explanation of some subsequent regulation of the old provisions which I suppose he was unable to consider when he proposed this law. However, this bill has shortcomings if we really want to have one good law on the budget system, and in principle this law is good, then the government of the Republic of Serbia should be made known about the amendments submitted by MPs to this bill. I would like to inform you, Mrs Micic, that you did not ask the Assembly's consent to enter into a debate under this draft law without the government's opinion. As you are, and probably not enough MPs to vote on it, so you have made it so quiet and we have begun to discuss it, and if you have to get special authority from the National Assembly to discuss the bill without an opinion that the Government would submit to the amendments submitted by the MPs. Our amendments were designed to correct the bill. Which is where the law is going to differ from that text that has so far been in place, and it hasn't even been applied, so this year has passed. The law could only have been passed now, if it had already seen what was wrong with it. Let it be from now on. Indeed, a public payment administration is set up to be part of the finance ministry. Then it means that you should have thought about it, whether it's even established by law. Why would the National Assembly set up a department of the Ministry of Finance by law? This could have been put into amendments to government or ministries laws. It could have been the Ministry of Finance that set up its own administrations, its departments under the law. The National Assembly is not engaged in the organisation of the ministries. Furthermore, Article 8 which has been completely changed now introduces some new powers of the minister, i.e. authorised persons of local self-government, or a person authorised by the minister or one in the local self-government. So far, only liquid reserves could be placed and could not be placed on the foreign market of money or capital. In Article 8, and do not mind me, paragraph 7 or 8, the Minister of Finance's right is introduced that the money in the consolidated account of the Republic's vault, other than the co-income referred to in Article 4(2) of this Article, and other than the funds for which the international contract provides to limit their use, so that it can invest it in the domestic or foreign financial market of money or capital. I know it's you, and I warned you a month ago, that you've filled the budget and budgets of the local self-government and the budget of the Republic of Serbia. This has led you to think suddenly that this country has so much money, that this people only has so much money that by taxing, excise and various other taxes, you will fill so many budgets that you will have money to place on the financial market, on the money market and capital market, and even abroad. The question arises, and why didn't you, which we had to do with the amendment, why didn't you foresee responsibility for how much that money was placed past the provisions of Article 53 paragraph 7 of the Law? I warn you that the provisions of Article 53(7) do not apply to the allocation of funds, but to the borrowing of the budget. We had to amend the debt to provide for and place the funds you foresee for the new Article 8. And the question is, what kind of brokerage house is going to place our funds, where our stock exchanges are going to "play" and what happens if that stock market breaks down overnight? I'm very interested in the next day where we're going to pay our pensions, health care, education, judiciary, military, police, direct and indirect budget users, and where then he's going to be the minister who's authorized to place these funds. If you carefully read Article 8 and all views, you will see that local self-government can also place funds on the foreign market through the minister, all through the minister, and the minister has come from abroad, from such a money market. There's that, yes, yes, Minister, I don't trust at all those who aren't tied to this country. I have confidence only in those who are firmly in Serbia and who think in it to spend their lives both them and their heirs. Furthermore, how is it that in one such poor country where the minister convinces us that he can barely make ends meet that many users are at risk, so there is no one for this, so if you're looking for these, tell me who to take off with, suddenly the minister says we'll have the funds so much that we'll place them and we'll be interesting for some money and capital market. What are the funds, ministers, with which we would be somewhere interesting, except for speculators, for washing some money, for transactions across the Shessels islands, or what they call those islands? In Article 10, which is your new Article 78, you have predicted that the funds of direct and indirect users deposited as deposits after seeing business banks remain until 1 July 2003. Why, for the means of seeing for six more months at a business bank. I understand the funds under the contract you provided for by 31 December 2003, but why the means by sight. If it's something to see, it's invested and removed from sight. If the funds are invested by sight, you can take them down when the law comes into force. We said by January 31st, let the banks be ready for the budgets they see to be gone. Why until July? In the light of the bill of law, what led him to write this article and, of course, the positions of the 6th and 7th which I do not understand. I have to admit, I've read this new article 10 several times, a new member of 78, and I don't get it, and I'm gonna have to read it out loud, because maybe there's someone here who's smarter than me and more educated, and I accept anyone who explains this to me that he's smarter than me and smarter and more educated. He says this: In 2003, money from direct and indirect beneficiaries of the budget funds of local authorities that were committed to the business banks as part of the consolidated account of the local government vault, the administration authority will deposit to the consolidated account of the vault at the end of the deadline of the handout and no later than 31 December 2003. We're in 2002, and you're telling us about the funds that will be invested as armed in 2003. The law won't give them a chance anymore. The law will enter into force by New Year's Eve, and no one will be able to depose with the financial banks any more. It won't work. We don't give the law any more. And if you'd said, the funds were in hand in 2002, everything would have been clear to me, but you say the funds that were committed in 2003, and we're in 2002. Next attitude...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25323	I'm warning you of an overrun of the time allowed.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25324	I'd like to use the next 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25325	All right. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25326	On the funds of direct and indirect beneficiaries of the local government's budget, which have been allocated to business banks in the period from the date of entry into force of this law until 31 December 2002. The law will enter into force on December 25th or 26th, and why you are now predicting local self-governments to split up for those few days, to conclude contracts with business banks so that they can avoid a consolidated vault account by December 31st. He can't. The law is in effect. Whoever had the extradition agreement until the end of the contract and no later than 31. In 12.2003, and who had no agreement on the disarmament can no longer arm it. He can't arm the funds. I guess that's why the law's being passed. That's why the payment administration is set up. Everything needs to look like the law, everything needs to be applied in practice. Nothing should be the basis for speculation. I don't know which bankers you like. I don't know which one, maybe the Commercial Bank, maybe the Delta. You like "Delta" bank awful. You keep all the funds at the Delta Bank. Maybe there, maybe you'll run for these three days, all local self-government. Perhaps you've already instructed them to run to those banks, for the three days you've been armed for another year. Then why are we passing the law? Then we'll wait for December 31st, 2003, and pass a law by which there won't be a single day of interagency in which it can speculate. That's why I think it would be good, and of course we did, and she didn't mind our congregation service. I like to resent it when someone does what we did now, but you've convinced me it's possible. We have submitted amendments to two members of the law that have not been amended by your proposal, but it was necessary that these two members be changed as well. One refers to the allocation of funds, that it must be so as not to endanger financial stability, and the other are criminal provisions. You know what, Minister, if we're giving you the authority to place funds even on the foreign financial market, we have to predict for you, when you commit that violation that puts budgets at risk, we have to provide for you a criminal sentence. For you, of course, there is a criminal law, there is a law on criminal proceedings. It's all there for you and it's not questionable. I didn't want to introduce criminal provisions into this law, but there are general rules for guilt. This is for violations. This law did not provide for a penalty for a violation if the funds were placed in such a way as to endanger those assets that were placed. You've just provided a fine for the borrowing funds that cause financial instability. You must foresee responsibility, criminal responsibility, and for the funds you've placed. I know it's not some amount for you, 20 to 200 thousand dinars, but that would make the law look like law and that all Serbian citizens realize that there is a responsibility from every adult citizen, including the minister, why not.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25327	Before I give my word to the minister, allow me just a brief explanation, as you initially said we continued our work without the government's opinion, the session was led by Mrs. Komic. There is no breach of the Rules of Procedure because this law is proposed by an emergency procedure, and Article 159(3) says, "If the Government does not give an opinion on the draft law within the specified time limit, the bill will also be considered without the Government's opinion." There's no need to make a statement to the Assembly about it, so we haven't broken the procedure. Finance and Economy Minister Bozidar Djelic reportedly.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25328	Mrs. Micic, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, congratulations, you have carefully looked at these provisions and responded at technical level, which is why various circumstances are foreseen. We just wanted there to be no hole in the law. Of course, this isn't some appeal for someone to launch funds now. It's clear where you want to go. He wants to see a situation next year where only the authorised persons who are hired to deal with finance are the ones who will manage finances and with available funds at the level of the Republic, at the province level or at the level of local self-government. Today and here we need to see this transition period and what we are going towards in the set of what and the situation that we have today, and that is that we have a rather unhealthy situation where any financial director, any institution, direct or indirect budgetary user at any level, can make some decisions on the placement of some funds without them being neatly arranged. They, thanks to the existence of the PDO and tomorrow's Public Payments Authority are registered. You know where the money is, but the whole philosophy here is the transitional period, that it's professionalized and, of course, the perspective is that the state money is not in any of the risky charters or any of the risk institutions and let's see a little of what we're starting. We started from a situation where in the 1990s we had very harmful contracts that were against the law of many ministries, take the Ministry of Interior, take the Ministry of Health, sign various contracts with some business banks, which were then held by those funds. At the time, it was almost the only available funds in the dinars, at the moment when no one in our country trusted in the banking sector after hyper inflation, stealing foreign exchange savings, stealing loans for Serbia's rebirth, Jezda, Dafina, pyramid savings banks, and therefore we found one situation where people without any responsibility were doing a lot of what with state money, sucking up state money and passing and passing to potential, and afterwards profiting from business banks. For the last year and a half, two years with this has been broken down in terms of no more such wild phenomena, but yet it has not been sufficiently arranged and the goal of course is to make the state money so well planned that it should in no way be something that bankers see as their potential, nor the budget dinar should be seen as a bank dinar that should be the basis for some lending or multiplier in lending or forming, and even creating a money mass. No, but in a transitional period and the meaning of these transitional provisions is that we must respect the fact that even a quarter of the potential, as the bankers of the banking system today in Serbia say today, stem from deposits by sight or by the hand of our budget direct and indirect users. These are mostly local self-government deposits, and when it was cut off at midnight on December 31st, it would question the stability of the banking system if it were done all of a sudden, because simply that money that is there on the deposit was placed. This can later have effects on the real sector or on our citizens, and therefore there is this transitional period, but here and there we agree on philosophy, next year of professionalisation and in the following steps it is that no business bank should see the state local self-government as its priority clients. That's not what the state budget's for. In some perspective, a state bank has to be just a central bank. As for the placement of funds, of course what will be proposed next year, it is further elaborated on these provisions, and it is one law on public debt, a modern law where you will see a series of details, where, how, in what way. In the meantime, there won't be much activity in this domain, of course, and it's clear that we have a number of provisions in the Budgetary System Act that limit the way these funds can be placed. Today you have a situation where Serbia's asset allocation literally has to go through the NBJ or Serbia, which leads to an asymmetric situation, where there are a large number of clients, but only one service and one place where this job can be done, which is not healthy and particularly not healthy for Serbia's vault and what the resources of our Republic are available. We need to establish a better balance in all of this. The last thing I would like to mention is that if you notice the transitional provisions of this law, we have the possibility that finally what is a Serbian property, and it seems to me that the Serbian Radical Party also had one action a few years ago, which is that what the PDO infrastructure is and must be seen as a Serbian property, must be seen through these transitional provisions that it is finally both registered and recognised as Serbian property. It's not just buildings. There's an information equipment, there's a network, there's a number of funds, our economy and our citizens funded, and it's state property. Through these provisions, which are complemented by some amendments in this law, we will have the certainty that after this transformation, the NBJ will focus and only have two functions, as it should, and this is the management of monetary policy and supervision of the banking system, not the issue of business space, rather than the conduct of some other activities that do not belong to one central bank. That way she will be focused on what her mission is and just what her mission is.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-17-0.u25329	I would like to thank Mr. Secretary for his presentation. With this exposure, we'd end our day's work. Before that, two notices. The first is the session of the Committee on Culture and Information, which will be held tomorrow at 10.00 hours in hall 48 on the second floor. (A voice from the O.R.: Who made the appointment? ) He has scheduled the chairman of the Committee on Culture and Information. He didn't sign. I think it's all right. The second notice -- I had consultations with the heads of the parliamentary groups, and we agreed to set a voting day tomorrow, since it was Saint Nicholas's Thursday, so we wouldn't work. So I'm setting tomorrow's voting day. Orientatively, if we continue at this rate, I think it'll be about 15.00 hours. Dear People's MPs, we continue the work of the Fifth Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units. I figure we've got quorums so we can keep working. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Milan Radulović, Branimir Trajkovic, Zivanko Radovanchev, Slobodan Radulović; Milos Radivojčević and Petar Misic (before noon). I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. We move to the 6th item of the agenda: – I would like to remind you that, in yesterday's session, following the opening presentation submitted by Mr Bozidar Djelic, Minister of Finance and Economy, MPs Dragan Tomic, deputy president of the National Socialist Group and Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group, participated in the debate. Do any of the other presidents, or deputies, want a word? According to the Rules of Procedure, there is a word for MP Zarko Obradovic.
