ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-21-0.u18724	The respected presidency, respected fellow MPs, is certainly not one of the laws on the agenda today that will bring about an improvement in citizens' standard of living within a short time, so that it certainly does not enjoy some great public attention, especially ordinary people. However, it is one of the laws that we need because of the reforms in which we are and it is a law that certainly represents in the area of finance a kind of constitution, a legal project that lays down the basic principles under which the current government and any future government will have to act to respect certain financial discipline that this law imposes. This law, along with the law on public procurement, which is to come to the agenda, forms the basis of this discipline. The result of respect for these laws will certainly be an expression of what all DOS parties have promised citizens. First, I'd like to give a review of what the law is about, and later on, some controversy that I think is in one member of the law, in one chapter of the law, given. Surely, this law provides a methodology, I would say a nearly textbook methodology for planning, preparation, adoption and control of budgets and financial plans. It has a stream of experience, as well as practices and theories, arranged countries. We saw yesterday, and we know that, not only developed Western and present-day countries, but also the experience of our government in the inter-war period. The novelties that are given in the members of this law, the most important novelties, are certainly comprehensive, because this law regulates how matter must be respected in the financial part of the Republic government, so that budgetary discipline and all that it imposes must also be respected by the authorities of autonomy and local self-government. Also, the same law gives what must be respected by mandatory social insurance organisations and thus the comprehensiveness, in one system way, to say, the textbook way, is well given. In addition, novelty is a budget calendar, a timing that the government will have to act on. So, the Ministry of Finance, as long as in two months, will already have to do some preparatory actions that we all here will have to control and monitor and thus see if this law is really going to be in practice and respected. Budgetary inspections and audits have been introduced, as authorities of independent control, implementation and budget monitoring. The novelty is also a vault, as a single account, which has already been said of quite a few things. What might be some kind of controversy in this law is these budgetary objectives. This, as one, in a way, the accounting document of accounting behavior imposes some strict conservative constraints as its objectives. These are macroeconomic stability, sustainable and stable economic development and a reduction in financial risk. However, in countries such as ours in the current political and economic situation, each government, present and future, must be careful not to oppose those objectives, i.e. because of someone at a given moment of economic discord, which seems possible, does not lose financial discipline and thus does not endanger the fundamental postulates of this law. In fact, it can be said that the harmonisation of these three objectives is the basis of any government's good policy in any country. Also, what this law means little to citizens in this now difficult economic situation is that the quality of this law and its respect do not guarantee itself success. It reduces the risk of government usurpation in the financial sphere, which we have witnessed in our country in a period of socialist rule; we have witnessed that in all the countries of the socialist lager and financial discipline there has been virtually no. It did not set itself at the level of law and simply a good practice, the home business of the state. This law certainly introduces these restrictions. This law can be a powerful weapon for all those who want to monitor and who have the opportunity to monitor the financial operations of all authorities. It will certainly be a powerful weapon for my party, the DSS, to control their partners in the ruling coalition, but it can also be a powerful weapon for all current opposition parties to control the current authorities. In that sense, we can conclude that the previous government had a bad practice, as regards giving opportunities to control some financial actions. The current government behaves in a similar way, so this law will change that practice. The consequences of the law being passed in our current macroeconomic situation can't be quickly good, and I've talked about it before, surely we can't expect this law to help our economic recovery. That's not his goal. Chuck, it can be realized that in some ways it will reduce the flexibility of the government. A good example is that the finance minister, Mr. Djelic, is not here in the O.R. right now. I don't blame him for that, but I can only say as an example that we are adopting a very important theoretical law which is the basis of his ministry's operation. He, coerced by the current situation, is in a situation to put an end to one, so to speak, economic fire in Serbia. So this case shows this controversy. On the one hand, we introduce discipline, but in some ways we also deny ourselves the ability to do things as freely as our predecessors in power used to do. So it needs to be taken into account, and everything has to be harmonised well, in order for this financial discipline to be not itself a goal, but something that brings opportunity for better future development, for foreign investment, and therefore for increasing citizens' standards. I can point to some speech we heard yesterday, on the one hand, the theoretical concept of this law has been criticised, I don't think it's in place. I think critics of this theoretical concept can make a parallel with their criticism of the Privatisation Act, which later turned out to be part of their programme. On the other hand, the second criticism was about something that I was talking about, that basically this is just a theory, and it's not going to contribute to the lives of the citizens. Those who said that had to bear in mind that there was a theory, and we all agree that it was necessary for all developed countries, countries that wanted to be arranged, they did not bring that theory in legal form during their rule. In this regard, support should also be limited, the political support of the DSS to this law. So, we certainly support this theory, this accepted theory, and that does not mean that we support neither the political moves of the current government of Serbia nor the moves in the financial sphere of the finance ministry. Normally, we believe that this law will introduce order and normal, the DSS will support this law for these reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-21-0.u18725	I thank the People's MP. People's MP Pal Karolj, the authorised representative of the DOS parliamentary group, the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians, came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-21-0.u18726	The Honorable Presidency, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the DOS parliamentary group - the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians - considers that today's law that we are considering, the law on the budgetary system, is a very important law in a series of these laws that are necessary to make this country a better, safer, safer and to live in a way that is worthy of the citizens of our country. We're starting with this practice that when our man comes out into the white world, with a bread belly, to find some job either as a worker, or as a manager, or as a owner, he manages in that white world as a rule, lives the way we all want to live. What's the difference, when a Serbian citizen goes out into the white world and gets there, and he couldn't manage it here in this country. There's a difference in that environment, in that environment, in that system of states. It's just that difference. It's not the difference in the citizen, it's not the difference in air, it's not the difference in water, it's the difference in the system in which that citizen lives. Our obligation as ambassadors of the people chosen by the people is to create and bring laws that will be in force in the developed parts of the world. Laws that we could go where we want to go, which is Europe and that we live in a way worthy of everyone. This bill on the budgetary system is the first law to sort out the issue of creating and spending budgets at all levels. In that sense, it is the backbone of the financial system of the state and local authorities. In that sense, it must be accepted and realized in the principles given. We expect these new laws to come that will regulate all areas of our lives. All the laws that will come need to be compatible with the system of the modern world and I urge you to vote for this law to also give a vote for the new laws that the Government will prepare for us, and all in order to enable this country and all of us who live here to be much nicer, to live much better and much happier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-21-0.u18727	I thank the People's MP. Is anyone else applying for a word from the president, or a representative of the parliamentary groups? No, I don't. A total of 15 MPs have applied for the principle debate. The first has the word of MP Dusan Ilic - for, and after that, MP Bozidar Vucurovic - against.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-21-0.u18728	Dear colleagues, the budget system is a set of regulations, institutions and mutual relations between these institutions in one country. It is very important that this system and these relationships be firmly regulated. What's important to us right now is to see what relationships are between these institutions, and primarily between the executive and the representative bodies. I believe that this bill is well regulated by these relations and that practically this bill allows one rational functioning at all stages of the budget: in its creation, adoption, implementation and control of the budget. I think this area of mutual relations is what we need most to be interested in right now. This bill well sets out clear time frames that allow clear control of representative bodies. However, what is not good and we have tried to define our amendments are issues of responsibility and we have particularly insisted on the finance minister's responsibilities in this bill. It is good that the Government has accepted this amendment and I believe it is positive. At the same time, we have also proposed that a special information system be introduced to regulate the vault, which is a new institution, which will allow for better control and supervision in the work of the vault. I'd like to point out in particular what the DSS reserve is. With one amendment, we tried to solve the problem that emerged in the area of the work of inspection services and budgetary inspections. We believe that mutual relations, organisation and coordination of inspection levels are not well regulated and we believe that the right to appeal is also not well regulated in this bill. It's one reserve we have, and with our amendment, we're going to try to change that. Also, we tried to introduce a special area as far as budget inspection is concerned. I have assurances that a special law will regulate external budgetary control, and while the DSS had the president of the Assembly, while chairing this House, an initiative has been launched and the Finance Committee has accepted this, to raise the issue of organising a supreme audit house. We are even in the Proposal for a Law on Local Self-Government (Mr. Jovanovic, I apologize, if I may finish), in fact, we tried another in the Bill on Local Self-Government to introduce an institution that would represent a council of public accounts or a supreme audit body that would control, which would be a practical external control. The important thing is that the initiative was launched, that the representatives of this parliament were visiting Slovenia, exchanged experiences with representatives of the UK and that is what is good. It would be positive if it continued with this external budget control, so that the representative bodies would have one supreme control over the implementation of the budget. So these are the only reserves we keep and we've tried our amendments to change that. Anyway, this law is necessary and we will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-21-0.u18729	The People's MP Bozidar Vucurovic has the word, followed by the MP Slavoljub Matic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-21-0.u18730	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is a shame that the finance minister is not present here today to remove my dilemma from any of the words of his rich arsenal, but unpunished words, to begin today's discussion, whether to say the bastard, the mobster, the hohstappler, or anything else, without getting a heads-up. Since poetry has been expelled from this congregation, I expect it will soon be expelled from the bookstore. I'll look back with a few words on this bill and a few more words on the credibility of the applicant of this law. The law on the budgetary system is necessary, we all agree and none of us will attack the need for such a law, but of course we will attack the insolence and inconsistency of this legal project with the laws currently in force, we will point to the need to amend a large number of laws in the area of finance that will arise after the adoption of this law, because it is obvious that this law will be passed. For the first time in one parliament, and in parliaments since 1991, I have experienced that the legislator begins his presentation by praising other people's budget law and budget system, radical law, and impairing his law. So he said yesterday -- here's what the budget law should look like, it was, if you remember, one book of several hundred pages; and like this, he said, it shouldn't look, so he showed the budget of the former government, undemocratic, of 35 members, and then he showed his budget law of 20 members. I didn't understand it, but when I read that law, it was all clear to me. The law is in fact the schedule of the ministry's hours of work and local authorities in charge of the adoption of financial regulations. That's where we can see when anyone gets out of bed, when they go to work, how many hours they'll be working on that legal project, when they're going to take a break, and what they're going to do to us at the end of the day. That's not bad. However, it is bad that these deadlines and the Constitution, and in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and other laws, are not what these laws now propose, so it will normally be very necessary to change all this. The budget is scheduled to be adopted by the end of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly at the latest. This law proposes to adopt the budget on 15 December, meaning 15 days later, and what else is foreseen by this law, and we adopted the Law on Public Revenue and Public Expenses in March 2001. The law has submitted for the adoption of the same ministry and the same minister. And see what's written in that law, and what's not in this law. In this new genius legislative project, excise tax is not the source of revenue, and in the Excise Budget Act is the source of revenue, and in the Law on Public Revenue and Public Excise Costs are the source of revenue and when we give the amendment that excises are the source of income, the government says - well, excises are a kind of tax form and as such they enter here. Why, then, did they not enter the Law on Budgets and the Law on Public Revenue and Expenses as such? The budget says that excises are the source of income. It says in the budget that the material costs are expenses, and in this brilliant law there is no expenditure. How does one who causes direct damage to Serbia's 15m-mark budget annually, or, say now, 7 or 8m euros per year, to do something to make transparency (here is transparency for me here too, and then writes - ha, ha, I have no idea what it means, believe me) that the budget is transparent, every month two to three million marks, this government damages the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Each month, ten million dollars per month, the government throws into the Republic of Croatia's budget. Every month, this government forbids our companies to work because, my God, they have to do Croatian firms, and when our companies don't work, there's no 20% service tax, no 20% sales tax on this country. How can we, regardless of what kind of law this law is, support the law proposed by the minister, which MPs and people even call hohstapplers, bitangs and mobsters? How are we going to support the law proposed by a minister who, like Mahmut Bakali, doesn't remember after 15 seconds what he said about this pay phone? How are we going to support the law of a man who asks me to read him a song from the first bench, and then applauds when the chairman gives me a warning, two warnings? Not at all. I've exceeded my time. I apologize to my colleagues.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-21-0.u18731	Your group has 27 minutes. The word has a People's MP Slavoljub Matic, followed by a National MP, Nebojsa Jovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-21-0.u18732	Ladies and gentlemen, the Democratic Party of Serbia believes the law is good and will vote for this law in principle. By submitting several amendments, I think that we are correcting the text of the law itself, with the desire that some other laws, which will come on the agenda of this assembly, be similar to this law. Of course, this is not the reason why, even when we praise the law, we do not find any regrets, because this law is not ideal, as nothing we have done so far can be ideal, but only perhaps part of some of our wishes and desires that as soon as our country becomes part of a single Europe, and this law that replaces the 1991 law, the law on public income and expenditure, which was certainly one of the brakes of Serbia's very entry into Europe, means this law introduces a series of newspapers and effectively fills a hole in this part of Europe, a hole in the sense of Serbia that did not have a modern law on the budget system. I will only remind that all the countries in our environment, and especially the countries in the former SFRY, have already passed similar laws, by saying that our bill is one of the most instructive ways and represents this area in an instructive way until the end, and it is on page 27 or 28. Similar laws have been passed in neighbouring countries, but these laws are written on only six or seven sides and that is one of our objections, this narrative and perhaps one textbook model that was used in writing this bill itself. However, what should be commended is that the bill detailedly covers and elaborated issues of planning, preparation, adoption, implementation and control of the budget, both the republican and local self-government budgets. This law introduces a very important institution, which is a vault. The vault also has the importance of Western democracies, even at the head of the vault are ministers. It is certain that this law will mean and will make a certain contribution to the regulation of public finances in a systematic, unique and comprehensive way, which is certainly an exceptional step towards this existing regulation. The objection to narrative and the textbook model that was used has already been mentioned, but one perhaps more important remark should be mentioned when it comes to this bill, which is to remind ourselves of the first importance of modern budgets. The budget is no longer purely administrative, but a modern budget and budget planning characterises a close link with financial and economic, major political leverages in one society. Our country, which otherwise adopts and spends about 50% of national income, becomes the main factor in the development of national economy. The bill provides for a budget memorandum, which could bear the name of the economic budget. Maybe it could have been included in this legal project. What is also important is the lack of solutions that would take a step further and that would allow the budget not only to be a budgetary technique, as it is written here, but to be a driver of deeper changes in budget finance. It was therefore necessary to provide for and include in the text the modern methods of evaluation of budget costs, methods of evaluation and rationalisation of budget sources, the introduction of an economic account in budgetary planning, which would certainly allow greater economic responsibility for public services and certainly economic efficiency of social governance. When we have one calculation in front of us, let's say the cost of schooling students, except for the cost of schooling there should be included in the budget planning, the length of education, the possibility of hiring students, the time when they can be employed. It's a very wide area that requires complete access. It is also necessary to introduce that system in the planning that is present in Western models, which is that there is no possibility of someone getting budgets without presenting their programmes. So a line or direction: a program, a budget; so there's no money without good programs, and that way we introduce responsibility. I hope that the resolution minister will plan to develop this model in the coming years, so that, of course, they become part of Europe. I will remind only one fact that the Democratic Party of Serbia, within the framework of the Bill on Local Self-Government and how it dealt with a single amendment, tried to introduce the principle of responsibility, including political responsibilities, monitoring and control in the public finances sector. We have proposed a committee to deal with the political control of public finances, public expenditure. Unfortunately, this has not passed, in an insufficient way this topic is being treated in this legislative project, but it will also not be late, perhaps in the very near future, that such a system of political control and we are introducing some of our additions to this law, as one of the basic principles of the work of all public finances.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-21-0.u18733	The word has a folk MP Nebojsa Jovic, followed by MP Goran Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-21-0.u18734	Dear People's MPs, the government of the Republic of Serbia is trying with the draft law on the budgetary system, and this should be welcomed, to organise in a unique and comprehensive manner the budgetary system in which it proposes a way of planning, preparing, adopting, controlling the Republic's budget, territorial autonomy and local self-government. The draft law states to Article 4 that the budgetary objective is macroeconomic stability, sustainable, stable economic development and a reduction in the financial risk of the Republic. I do not agree with the proposed formulation, because I believe that these are more political phrases, thus avoiding responsibility for macroeconomic issues, and I believe that by providing the budget for the next fiscal year, the country's economic policy is being determined, economic stability is being maintained, development and employment are being ensured, the financial risk is avoided. In Article 5. The draft budgetary system has been regulated by the issue of budget volume and it is not disputed that all receipts are expressed in total amounts, and all expenditure in total amounts and that they must be balanced, but that they do not agree with the position of the 5th member mentioned, as this gives too much authority to the Government and to the competent executive authority of the local authorities, who may have the resources achieved by the end of the current year, in particular which the payment is neither possible nor limited to the amount shown in the budget. The bill provides that the minister, i.e. the local authority of the administration, is obliged to directly monitor the implementation of the budget and inform the government at least twice a year, i.e. the competent executive body of the local authorities. I find it necessary to prescribe the obligation to quarterly, i.e. Every three months, the Government delivers a report to the National Assembly, i.e. the local government’s competent executive body to the local parliament, on the revenue and expenditure achieved over the past period. As of October 5th, reformists say, this brings transparency to how revenues are made and budgets are spent. This draft budget system gives Article 4 its real meaning, i.e. confirms that the proposed budget system is in fact a technical budget system, as the member shows the budget calendar of 30 April, when budget preparations start, by adopting a budget memorandum, concluded on December 25th, when the local administration authority responsible for finance delivers the budget to the local government. If the budget calendar is foreseen, I do not understand why Article 14 of the draft budget system law is not sanctioned by Article 47, because if all is provided for by the budget calendar, then those most responsible must also bear sanctions if they do not adopt acts within the deadlines provided. Although Article 28 provides that in the event that the National Assembly, i.e. local self-government, does not adopt a budget before the start of the fiscal year, forced funding is made during the maximum period of the first three months of the fiscal year. Should there be an alternative to forced funding besides the proposed budget calendar? If it's supposed to exist, I think it's a really long period of three months for that. Article 24 regulates the issue of determining the draft budget. There is no dispute, that the minister delivers the draft budget to the Government of the Republic and the Government to the National Assembly. However, the new Law on Local Self-Government gives high authority to the president of the municipality and should, after receiving a draft budget from local authorities to decide on amending the budget drafts, establish the draft budget and deliver it to local self-government. The president of the municipality does not have to be an expert in the area, and his expertise in this area is being established here, and his powers are being placed above the municipality's parliament, which is also elected by citizens. However, the Law on Local Self-Government is so passed and there is no change there now. In further presentation, I would refer to the return of more or less paid budget revenues. If more current revenues are charged from the debtors, the refund will be made in accordance with the law governing the payment of public revenue. The recovery of these funds shall be carried out on the burden of payment of the current income account. But there is a problem - if there is not enough funds to make a return, the payer responsible for the refund of current incomes, it is required to ask the user of that income to transfer the amount of funds to the public income account from which the refund is due to be made to the debtor. The draft law does not define the deadline within which the payer is obliged to ask the user to recover the funds. That is why the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group is asking the amendment to do so within three days. We also believe that it is necessary to reduce the time limit of 15 days to seven days until the user transfers the funds to the payment account, that the payer issue a order to transfer the funds from the current income account to the payment account of the current income from which the refund is made, because they are not his funds if they are paid as an excess of public revenue. As for the change in the appraisal during the year, it is said that in the event of the creation of a new direct beneficiary of budgets, funds for its business or authority, they are provided from the current budget reserve. It is true that the funds of the current budget reserve are used for unplanned purposes for which no appraisal within the meaning of Article 48 has been carried out, but I believe that large government powers have been given, and so far this has been mirrored through the formation of a large number of agencies that have become direct users, so the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group has asked to delete Article 3. 41's position. When I have already touched the budget reserves, I believe that the budget reserve should be differentiated to certain amounts, and in this sense I propose that the current budget reserve is up to 1% of the total revenue for the financial year. This shall be sufficient for all unplanned purposes for which they have not applied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-21-0.u18735	I thank the People's MP. The word has a folk MP Goran Cvetanovic, followed by Radojko Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-21-0.u18736	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS advocates a fundamental reform of the country's financial sector, with a clear concept and direction of financial reform, with the law on the budgetary system as a result of sound policy and a clear social programme. The government is leading fiscal policy by increasing tax rates and burden on citizens and businesses, and restructuring the banking system is done exclusively through the liquidation of Serbian banks, instead of effective reduction of the vast grey economy. The government is using reformist rhetoric rather than taking measures to implement fiscal policy with a clear strategy for financing health, education, education, culture. The budget law and other legal regulations governing this area determine who makes the bill on the budget, the decision on the budget and the financial plans. The decision offered by the Government allows the Government to adopt regulations that will reduce the responsibilities of the National Assembly, local congregations and competent authorities, institutions and funds. If the work of the Government is transparent, why only follow the implementation of the budget twice a year when it is necessary to inform the competent executive authority at least four times. The opening of sub-accounts and other accounts opens up the possibility of major abuses in the use of budget funds. Why there are no provisions in the law necessary to solve the matter that the law regulates, the legislator has also given definitions of, for example, the budget surplus and deficits, as if it were not the law, but a lecture at school. The budget calendar obviously resembles a reminder of the finance minister, more of it personal than a member of the law. For the purpose of determining the draft budget and delivering it to the National Assembly or the local Assembly, the instructions, the memorandum and the guidelines are internal documents between the donors and the beneficiaries of the budget funds, so they should not be subject to this draft law. The proposal that the National Assembly gives consent to the financial plans of mandatory social security organisations gives these institutions the importance of the parallel body of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, thus establishing their executive character, which is not foreseen under the Constitution. When it comes to fiscal years and temporary financing, why again leaves the possibility of a major delay in budgeting and temporary financing being made during the first three months of the fiscal year. The permanent budget reserve is obviously not processed, because if the budget deficit is planned for the current fiscal year it is absurd to plan the funds for a permanent budget reserve. Why is the bill not defined within what time limit the payer is obliged to ask the user to recover more or wrongly charged budget revenues. I see no reason why contracts on short-term loans and short-term securities should be decided by the minister because there is a real danger of abuse and self-government of the executive authority. If we have already adopted the Law on Local Self-Government increased the financial powers of local self-government, why can local authorities not issue guarantees under this bill. The Serbian Radical Party believes it is impossible to gain insight into borrowing if the president of the municipality himself negotiates the borrowing of units of local self-government, both with foreign and domestic creditors. It is therefore necessary to consider such a decision on borrowing with the executive body of the local authorities and it is necessary to agree by the council committee of the municipality. What is evident and against what is SRS is the establishment of a vault and a single consolidated account, in order to prevent the introduction of even greater centralisation in the financial sphere, because it is obvious that the finance minister wants everything to be placed under his patronate, and it is evident that he is not, most likely because of that, even present, because he cannot deny it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-21-0.u18737	The word has a folk MP, Radojko Petric.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-21-0.u18738	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, by passing this law, is clearly seeking to achieve more order and discipline in the entire budget system. However, the proposed solutions do not mean any improvement in the current situation in this area. Some proposals mean a step back from the solutions so far, some being unspeakable and leaving the possibility of different interpretations. In further presentation, I will point to some of the predetermined findings. In particular, in Article 14. The draft law prescribes a budget calendar for the preparation and adoption of budgets. The proposed procedures are a really good assumption that the budget can be prepared thoroughly and in time, started from municipality to republic. Also, according to the proposed calendar, preparations for budgeting begin on time, as early as 30 April of the current year for budgeting for next year. The same article provides an obligation for the competent executive body of the municipality to submit a draft budget to the local assembly by 5 October, i.e. the Government of the Republic of Serbia to submit a draft budget to the National Assembly for adoption by 1 November. And, just when praise should be given to the introduction of such newspapers, we find out that it doesn't mean much in practice. The possibility remains that the budget of municipalities and the Republic can continue to be passed until 31 March of the financial year and temporary financing for the first three months. To justify the tolerance not to adopt the budgets until December 31st? I don't know who can justify that the congregations of the municipalities of October 5th, which is in three months, and the Republic Assembly of November 1st, ie. within two months, until they are presented with established budget proposals, I cannot schedule assembly sessions and adopt budgets. Furthermore, in cases where an obligor requests to recover more paid liabilities and when it is found to be right, some very long-term deadlines are left unwarranted, until the funds are recovered, although he is entitled to do so. Article 48 regulates the issue of forming and using the current budget reserve. It is lacking that it is not prescribed what is the maximum amount compared to the total revenue for the financial year. This amount, as well as the fixed budget reserve, should be prescribed in law. In particular, the issue is a chapter of debt and guarantees, where the proposed solutions are left with a lot of uncertainty and a lot of confusion. The proposed solutions on borrowing, holding borrowing negotiations, issuing guarantees, etc. are very discriminatory. Easy debt to banks in the country and abroad to cover budget deficits has major consequences for the future period. The loans must be taken back, and increased by interest. The other thing is when credits are used for the purchase of repromation, equipment or for some investments, where production dynamics and profit-making are expected. And the second is when loans are used to cover budget deficits, they go into public spending; they can only return from taxes. This again leads to a slowdown in economic flows and a reduction in economic activity. I only remind myself that this year's republican budget provides for a budget deficit to be covered by loans from domestic banks of 5 billion and 460 million, and from foreign loans of up to 13 billion and 420 million. Then, in Article 64, where the calendar of preparations, implementation and submission of the final accounts of the budget is prescribed, it is likely that it was left out by mistake to set a deadline - until the competent executive body of the local authorities submits a proposal for the final budget to the local assembly for adoption. This failure, I hope, will simply be corrected now, when adopting this law and considering the proposal by MPs in the form of amendments made to this law. Finally, due to the limited time for discussion, I would like to point only to the issue of budgetary control and audit. The establishment of internal budgetary control, special internal control services, budgetary inspections and audits and local inspection and audit services is clearly defined. These services will have staff, space and equipment, performers, among other things, and control the application of the law in the area of material and financial business. However, there is no provision in the draft of this law that these services in their work should cooperate with related services, such as the financial police of the Republic Administration of Public Revenue or the financial inspection of the National Bank, i.e. the Office for Accounting and Payment. The SPS in this regard, and in order to raise the efficiency and rationality overall, the functionality of the social system, proposes that the obligation to co-operate these institutions should also be prescribed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-21-0.u18739	I thank the People's MP. The word is made by MP Vitomir Plužarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-21-0.u18740	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we need this and the other laws that must be passed in this house as soon as possible, because that is the basic condition for us to enter the European Union. To achieve this, governments should be able to present several years of programmes, including careful coordination between partners at different levels of work. The speed of adoption of this law is conditioned not only by entering our country, but also by preserving all donations that are not free, and it is known whose money is invested in our country. Probably the proponent of this bill wants to achieve more order and discipline in the overall budget system, but this way the proposed law looks more like an economic textbook than the law, which certainly cannot be the goal of the law. The law must be concise, clear and contain only the provisions necessary to regulate the matter it regulates. This bill instead of containing only the necessary provisions for a single and comprehensive way of regulating the Republic of Serbia's budgetary system, it also contains provisions that have the character of an internal normative act or a reminder of the Minister and the Ministry of Finance and Economy. The obvious examples are art. 14th and 17. It's a bill of law. In Article 14. The bill talks about the calendar of the republican budget, which looks more like a reminder than a member of the law, and at least it's funny. Article 17 also treats the contents of the instruction provided by the Ministry to direct beneficiaries of the budget, and the minister already has their promises. Also, the law is imprecise and it is inadmissible that the proponent does not foresee excise duties as one of the basic sources of income in sources of funding. You say this is one of the key reform laws governing the budget system in a single and comprehensive way, defining the planning, preparation, adoption and control of the Republic's budget, the province and local self-government. And that key reform is to set up a vault at all levels. If you introduce this institution into the budget system, you will manage money flows more effectively, inflows, and outflows of budget funds and budgets. Betraying and borrowing sounds very nice, if only it were true. The bottom line is that by setting up the vault and opening a single consolidated account, you practically cancel all individual giro accounts of all users; both direct (i.e. ministries), and indirect (i.e. courts, mandatory social insurance organisations). That's the point. You want to control everything from one center. All the money in one pile, and it'll be spent as the Chancellor says. Tito didn't do that kind of centralization either. It's a kind of dictatorship in the financial area. That's what you and here in the Assembly are doing, but only as a terror stronger over the weak. When the Rules of Procedure comes on your hand, you use it, when it's not working on your hand, you vote on it and you move on. You plan to open about 150 vaults, which will employ 15 people. Imagine that army of people. You're planning some major auditors - ordinary, some top auditors. Who can pay for that vast army of people, and go to the variant - a thrifty and cheap state. The people have nothing left to make out of the money you're expecting. I see from the bill that you want to borrow abroad, broadcast short-term securities of value to finance current liquidity deficits. How are we going to apply this budget system to cities when we haven't regulated them by any law? This area of cities has yet to be resolved. And the Law on Local Self-Government was adopted only as a wish, as it should only start to apply after regular new elections. The budget system is an attempt by the Serbian government to divorce budget wishes that have always been transparent. This system creates a system that cannot be controlled, which is the ultimate goal. Why can't he control himself? Because this system is all to the point of being torn apart by instructions and supporting acts that the army needs to systematicise, but I hope this budget system doesn't even come to life. You, instead of going towards reducing public spending, you're making it stronger by this law, even planning to charge for your comfort and chukununci. And the greatest pearl is that you also plan to make it possible for local self-government. Knowing your staff at the bar, I'm afraid it'll take us 50 years to detach the municipalities. This law we Serbian radicals will not support.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-21-0.u18741	The word comes from MP Zarko Obradovic, and after that, MP Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-21-0.u18742	The respected presidency, respected fellow MPs, has been said several times over the past few months in the debate on different financial issues that these issues will be resolved or regulated by the future law on the budgetary system. The bill today comes before the Serbian Parliament's MPs. Looking at its contents, you can say a few findings and ask a few questions. First, the bill contains a number of provisions that cannot be formally objected to. These are general views, assessments, new names for already known and applied actions and procedures, methodology for budgeting and financial plans, explanation of specific concepts, responsibilities of individual entities, deadlines for prescribed actions and many others, mostly already known. The question that arises is whether this law was necessary at all, because the whole content of the law could be proven through one sublegal act. If the bill has already been made, to what extent it will be implemented, what is written applicable, what is it that makes this law special for us to discuss it today in the congregation. The essence of this law is, in my opinion, that it foresees so far the unknown centralisation of money management, while at the same time constantly talking about decentralisation and financial independence, which on a large door speaks of deficits in budgets, at the republical and local level, which is the absoluteisation of the position and right of the minister to manage all financial resources, either as a direct commanding officer, or as someone whose consent is needed for the availability of money. In fact, the law wants to institutionalise existing practice, even solutions that are the majority of the congregation, and the minister himself, have repeatedly been criticised, condemned as unauthorized, unsuitable, as something that is a relic of the past and which will not seem to be in the future, which seems to be. I specifically think about taking money from the Republic of Serbia's budget and its placement for other purposes, as was the case with the EPS, which we saw a few days ago in the framework of the guarantee debate. Personally, as well as my fellow Socialists, I don't mind the state's money being rerouted to other purposes, if that doesn't put budget users at risk. The EPS, unquestionably, was needed for a remont because it worked in impossible conditions, where it was not possible to obtain spare parts normally, and especially because the facilities were destroyed and damaged during NATO aggression. But what we can't accept is this double government approach to these and similar issues. In fact, whenever there was a need for criticism from the previous government, the minister, in addition to political assessments, assured all MPs and the public that there would be "transparency of public finances" and that there would be no "unsettled budget users". It is not transparent at all, nor is it concerned about budget users, taking money from the budget and giving it to other needs, and not informing the public, except when it has to, as in that case. Even the minister, not blinking, said that if the Assembly does not give credit guarantees, money should be asked of some other budget users. I mention this for the reason that the current government is working in completely regular conditions, while the previous one has worked under conditions of sanctions and war. Secondly, the budget system, through the vault, includes social funds, pension, health care, which is not in line with the essence that funds are managed by those who finance these funds through the contribution. Third, this bill is definitely setting up a deficit in the budget, as something with which the current authority accounts permanently. This government directly confirms that the economic situation in the country is extremely poor, that production practically does not exist, that domestic sources will not be able to meet the country's obligations, except by increasing taxes, but then the question of who will be able to pay it. Laws that have been vehemently announced to fill the budget, such as the Extraprofit Act, have not yielded any expected results. In law-making, large revenues were also discussed by the Socialists as the main extraprofitters. However, when a list of extraprofessors was published, it was seen that there was no socialist among them. Elan has also dropped to enforce the law, as extraprofitters should have been sought elsewhere, among their own, and with the fall of the Elan, the flow of money into the budget has fallen. The effects of privatisation, as a model for covering the deficit, are now not spoken at all. Foreign donations are hardly mentioned. So, all that remains is credits to fill the deficit, but loans, as is known, cost. Of course, it'll cost us too. Fourthly, the lack of the law on the budgetary system is also reflected in the fact that, unlike the Law on Public Revenue and Public Expenses, there are no well-established areas financed from the Republic of Serbia's budget. Namely, the Law on Public Revenue and Public Expenses in several members, 18, 19, 20 and 21, very detailed, item by item, states beneficiaries of financing, while this bill contains general, mainly principled provisions. Fellow MPs, what has been called a flaw in the past year and a little more days, this will be a virtue after the adoption of the budget system law. In fact, it is essentially a technical law, not systemically, whose function is to improve the image of the government of the Republic of Serbia in public. The budget deficit, rather than being resolved, will be transparently demonstrated, and the consequences will be felt by citizens, primarily by those who have done their civic obligations neatly. For the reasons mentioned and mentioned by my fellow Socialists, this bill is not acceptable to us.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-21-0.u18743	The People's Messenger Milorad Mircic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people, Toma Busetic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-21-0.u18744	Here, the Serbian Parliament has the honour of joining the so-called developed European countries. This budget law was passed by Croatia, adopted by Republika Srpska, adopted by Montenegro, adopted by Macedonia; why not join this developed Europe, why should we create problems for the European Community, why should we create problems for the IMF? Best to pass such a law, and it is much better and more useful than the proposal by Žarko Korać to enter Europe in his way. It's unrecommended, especially for us Serbian radicals, and you do what you want. It's interesting that the minister here with his panic and almost schizoid speeches wants to cover it, which is to centralise financial resources. The government should not defend the law by attacking the opposition and opposition MPs. The law defends itself by argument. This centralisation of financial resources, through the central vault, was carried out not by the government or the minister holding hands, or the paw better said, is an appropriate term for them, on these financial means, but by the European Economic Community to have a review, so that it controls all the funds available in the Republic of Serbia. Based on these funds in the central vault, the IMF would determine a further policy it would implement or lead towards Serbia. Then you have to publicly admit what it's about. Gentlemen, here we have heard from the minister himself, and he proudly said that the representatives of the European Economic Community are already in the government, that foreigners are telling us what we are going to do and at what time in Serbia to invest, what we should do in Serbia, that someone from abroad will tell us. It's not a shame, it's not a shame to admit it. But to know the people of Serbia whose hands are his destiny; in whose hands are the finances, it determines Serbia's fate. After this law, I'm 99% sure there's a law on public procurement or whatever it's called. Here is how, in the future, the Serbian Government should do this: the resolution ministers will submit annual plans for the use of allegedly budget funds; then the person concerned, who is in front of the European Economic Community, or the IMF, will assess whether it is worth it, whether it is useful or rational to go into that investment; based on his assessment, the funds will also be transferred. It looks very nice, and you could educate yourself, gentlemen of the ruling coalition in Montenegro. When Minister Resorni comes, let's say, for traffic and that the priority of building roads in the part of Niksic-Plužina, and then the Englishman, Mr. English, because he knows the good situation, he sets out a priority and says, "This time is not useful," we'll do it another time or we won't do one, but we'll move it to improve tourism. What does this law open as a possibility? That's exactly what I was saying, making cash available. Who's going to have it? The one holding his paw over financial resources will be the one, which is exactly the representative of the European Economic Community. Did you see that, someone's being transferred, and then someone decides whether they need it or not? Direct, indirect, budget users, they can do whatever they want with resources. Their duty and obligation is to deliver the plan. The realisation of this plan is periodically controlled. Pavlovic, you don't know this, you don't understand this. If you only knew one reality, if Tito had died, you would have acted differently. (Freedan Pavlovic, from place: There are two Pavlovics, who do you mean? You're the same. Now let me get into it. What's interesting here? It is interesting here that something is being imposed by the European Economic Community. How do you do that? Through MPs in the assembly, then we MPs will later be held accountable for the success and failure of this government. As you go, gentlemen, free in Serbia, any bandit can say that he is as reformist as you are. That's proof. Now, this is your reform.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-21-0.u18745	The word has a folk MP Toma Busetic, followed by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-21-0.u18746	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is very difficult today to talk about this law when our President, Slobodan Milosevic, in an impressive way reminds the whole world, and unfortunately part of his own people, what has been happening in the past 10 years, who has started wars and what crimes he has committed... (President: Please return to the topic. )......................................................................................................... NATO pact to our people and our country. When it comes to this law, I would just refer to the 59th member, who speaks about how organisations in the area of compulsory social security can be in debt to domestic and foreign creditors for capital investments. The paradox, gentlemen, is that today is about capital investments in the area of social security when we know that all these organisations do not have enough resources for regular work. The example works in health care, regardless of what is set out in the budget seems to me five billion, these funds are a drop in the sea and planned revenues will not be enough for 50% of the needs, and when it comes to health workers' salaries, when it comes to the needs of a wide range of insurance companies. Well, when we talk about a pension fund, where the situation is equally difficult, no matter what government predicted 127 billion for these purposes, what capital investments we're talking about when pensioners are going to stay for three pensions this year. That is what Minister Djelic himself admitted, as pensions will be adjusted three months and 50% of salary growth and 50% of the cost of life. When we talk about the Employment Service, we know very well that there are significantly reduced rights that have been in our time, and I will remind you that there is only two years of compensation provided for those insurance companies who have over 30 years of internships; now we have that for those who are 25 years old, only two years of cash compensation is provided. We know that in this year, 100,000 more people will be out of a job. When we take this number and in 2001 it's out of a job of more than 100,000, it's a whole million out of a job. Director of the Employment Service, rather than worry about how they will find the funds to cover these cash benefits, Director Svetozar Krstic tells us that he will organize labour fairs, where it is very important that men do not have white socks on black shoes. You know, that would be very funny if it wasn't tragic. The position of the 7th member shall refer to the possible loan of the mandatory social security organisation from the Republic's budget. At first glance, it might look like a good move. (Can you calm them down a bit, listen, it's an interesting topic. ) How the budget will borrow funds for these organisations, when we know that it itself is deficited by 38 billion and we know what is said to replace the deficit. It's through donations, through credit and privatisation. Of course, the conditions for donations are very difficult: the extradition of Serbs to The Hague, the shutting down of Republika Srpska, the release of all Shipara from prison. Please, after the speech by Slobodan Milosevic and performing at The Hague, the extradition of Serbs to The Hague will not be easy. Finally, when we talk about loans themselves, we have warned you many times, we Socialists, that you should be careful when using IMF loans because they are bitter experiences in many countries. Poland and Czechoslovakia got the biggest loans, and Argentina, and their debts are now over $100 billion. Only for interest in all these countries is 50% of the national income. And another good example, perhaps also important to us: Ethiopia received donations in time, but donors did not give those funds to be spent on starting domestic production, they already went to US banks, and they gave them loans to the IMF that were on interest of 10% or 12% on an annual basis.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-21-0.u18747	The word has been made by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic, the remaining time of the SRS parliamentary group is five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-21-0.u18748	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have been in this House for 10 years as an SRS MP, and during that time I have heard many prime ministers, many ministers, we have considered many bill proposals, declarations, but such a sweet-talking minister as Mr Djelic has not heard yet. And believe me, because of this sweetness, the people believed certain promises, so they even gained some sympathy among the citizens of Serbia. Yesterday, he showed two books, a fat book that represented the budget of the Bulgarian Kingdom of Yugoslavia and a small book that represented the 2001 budget. Today I brought a little book that represents a list of promises made by the government of the Republic of Serbia and Minister Djelic, and that big book that represented promises I couldn't bring because it was a huge book. So, ladies and gentlemen, we have come to today's adoption of a law that will show transparently how the budget is made, how the budget is adopted and how the budget is spent. What we are interested in as Serbian Radicals and citizens of Serbia: the government is interested in offering a budget that will be acceptable to citizens, who will be able to fill their resources, to meet the basic needs of budgetary users and those financed by law from the Republic of Serbia's budget. We cannot argue that Minister Djelic also has some professorial ambitions, so it is said for the native Pirocan, that what we say is the authority of the government or of some authority to spend budgets legally. That's how we learn from our minister in this law, which is not a textbook, but a law, that budget incomes and expenditures must be balanced. Then we have something else we really need to learn, this isn't the law, this is the textbook, that if current expenditures are higher than current incomes, there's a deficit, and if incomes are higher than expenditure, we have surpluses. We also have a work calendar, so it is said firstly, on 30 April, the minister in co-operation with the authorities responsible, etc. Brings that, too, but there's something missing. There's no telling what the minister was doing that day in the morning, let's say, he got up at 7:00 in the morning, went off with his uncle at the market, then shaved, then this, then that. It takes gentlemen to be transparent. What we're asking this government to do is to be transparent in another way. Not to be found out on the first RTS programme, from a fight between DOS representatives, between the two DOS wings, that Minister Vlahovic should wear bucagia, that Serbia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia have a pair of eggs on the eye or eggs from President Kostunica's eggs cost 250,000 German marks, that some things are happening that we had no idea of. Is it necessary for Serbia's DOS representatives to find out what's going on out of a fight? To learn from a senior official of a political pair and former president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia that 400,000 marks from a donation for health care have been stretched out, spent on various NGOs. To make laws like this, which we have been waiting for for a year and which are getting worse and worse, to get money from abroad, to also get divorced by some NGOs, to spend beyond the law and beyond the public. So, again, for the SRS, it is completely irrelevant how the government of the Republic of Serbia will adopt and make this budget. What is important for us is that we monitor the spending of this budget, that each item is based on the law, that any spending from that budget is legal, that the budget is acceptable for small businesses, that it is acceptable for those who are engaged in large production, that it is acceptable for citizens of the Republic of Serbia and that to the extent that the budget funds are collected all the beneficiaries of the budget are satisfied. All of this represents a tra-la-la, and this entire extraordinary session has been conducted in the adoption of laws that will not apply or will not apply for a few years. Much more important things await Serbia and politicians in Serbia. Anyway, it looks like it's time for the Serbian radicals to start with the myths, so let's go, Panchevo, and Nis, and so on.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-21-0.u18749	The word has a folk MP, Jovan Todorovic, and after that, MP Golub Rajic. National MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic has used the time of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-21-0.u18750	Mrs. Micic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am sorry that Minister Djelic is not present here today, because I want to highlight several important issues in this debate, which have not been mentioned in the current course of the story of the budget system law. First of all, several basic impressions, it would be said that this law is comprehensive, that it is systematic, that it can therefore be drawn from the conclusion that it is of quality, but only at first sight. Yet here, a few key questions can be asked, in my opinion, essential questions, and above all in the part concerning the application of the law. I think that this law is somewhat premature and that it is difficult to apply in our current economic and financial situation, starting from the level of the Republic to the level of local self-government and autonomous provinces. Secondly, I believe that this law is not necessarily in line with the relevant federal regulations, especially those that regulate the issue of sovereign debt and jurisdiction in creating this debt. Third, I believe that the basic budgetary objectives mentioned in this law, given the previous circumstances, cannot be achieved. It has been said that the main budgetary objective is macroeconomic stability, stable economic development and a reduction in the financial risk of the Republic of Serbia. That's the basic budgetary objective. Whenever a budget is made, it would have to be a basic budgetary objective, and unfortunately here we can't talk about a stable macroeconomic situation, neither possible and stable economic development, nor about the fact that the Republic of Serbia has a reduced financial risk at a time when we carry out the 2002 budget, especially the fact that the republican budget is deficited by more than 38 billion dinars, i.e. over a billion and 300 million marks. This alone cannot reduce the financial risk because the state is already in the beginning obliged either to ino-trustors or to its citizens on the basis of meeting basic needs in various areas of life. Minister Djelic tried to say in his presentation yesterday that we have some quality and new categories in the law on the budget system, with particular reference to the vault. I would like to remind you, gentlemen of the MPs, and also of Minister Djelic that the vault is not a newspaper that came with the arrival of Minister Djelic as finance minister, but to remind him that we also had this financial institution in the previous Yugoslavia -- the vault. The question is just how will this vault function, when there is a obligation for all those who, through tax and contribution, finance to place all these funds in one single consolidated account, and to allow the consolidated account to open and the corresponding sub-accounts and other accounts, as stated in this law. Why is that a question? First of all, previous experiences show that social security funds had no obligation to the previous vault, and experiences from Europe say they had no obligation to deposit their financial resources on that unique consolidated vault account. They didn't, because in the West as well as in ours, there is a difference between the obligations of the users to the funds and the commitments to the budget. Because, as we know, we're investing in funds, and we're paying taxes in the budget, and that's a significant and fundamental difference. In this way it is denied, but it is least said that it limits the right of those who pay and contribute and manage these funds. Theoretically speaking, it can happen, and given our practice, it's perfectly safe to assume that we will be in such situations, for example. the funds of the pension fund for the salaries of employees in the field of education or in health care, and that pensioners cannot be paid in time for pensions at the appropriate amounts. Of course, it can happen the other way around, but the main thing is that all these funds are being overcentralised at the level of the Republic and that we have such or similar categories of vaults both at the level of the autonomous province and local self-government. Then it opens up to each other, an essential question. We are now going to open the consolidated account by decision of the finance minister at the competent office of payment, i.e. at the Office of Accounting and Payment. Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what will happen the moment the PDO, or payment service, is abolished? Then who will open this unique or consolidated vault account? Which business bank, given the fact that we know what our situation is in the country's banking system? Are we also going to come up with such solutions that the decision to suspend the work of the Office of Accounting and Payment is made at the federal level, or are we going to need to open our consolidated accounts to foreign banks as well? There are a number of key issues here that even the vault as an institution will work if we respect the law on the abolition of the PDO. So are we going to be able to make a combination eventually, that this consolidated account of the PDO, which I think would be rational and comprehensive, would be transferred to the National Bank or to the Post Office or again according to the minister's decision to another business bank? What is the business bank that is able to do in this moment, and counting on a year in advance, payment transactions for all the beneficiaries of the budget, at all levels in this country? Ladies and gentlemen, I also remind you that in the future, according to the budget system law, the National Bank of Yugoslavia will be only one service of the Republic government, which will carry out its decisions in the task of borrowing and, above all, foreign borrowing. Here, essential questions can be asked about who needs it in this country and can decide on government debt. As you know, the bill gives all authority to the minister and the minister makes a decision on borrowing, on taking short-term loans both with domestic and foreign creditors. The question arises whether it's an experience from European practice or something that we're trying to bring here through this law to a small door and what's going to happen to us? We affirm here, which is generally not good, which violates the rules of budgetary balance, affirm the budget deficit, and then the minister will always be able to reach out for foreign loans to reduce or eliminate the deficit in the budget. This raises the question of what kind of budget it is, which presupposes a lack of funds and presupposes that, in order to fill the budget, we will have to take foreign loans, even in the short term. Who can actually decide that? Even in this regard, I have proposed an amendment and it has been rejected, and I have suggested that the debts of domestic creditors be decided by the government, and foreign creditors are not decided by the minister, but by the National Assembly on a proposal from the government. Then we could talk here about whether it's a whole and rational budget to fill with foreign debts and loans, while neglecting the fact that it's not disputed to take a government debt, but to place it in capital investments, to build highways, to build factories, to build railways, etc., but it is controversial to take foreign credit, to put it in the budget and to spend it as public spending. It is a dispute, and after that, we may find that the minister, who concluded the debt contract, such as Minister Djelic, went back to France or another country, and left the country here in debt, because he had the right under the law to conclude any debt and no restrictions on the amount of that debt. The question is the conditions under which these debts can be created in this country. Many things are open here, and please, this law gives the law to the executive body of the municipality, which is the president of the municipality, that it also concludes contracts for the borrowing of local self-government without the decision of the local assembly. That amendment was rejected by the government. What does that mean? It means that we're going to have some president who's going to take as long as he wants to fill that municipal budget, that he's funding some activities, and then we're going to take him down, but his responsibility under the law won't exist. We'll have a vault at the level of local self-government, we'll have a review and control of the business of public enterprises, and that's what the law says, in which the state owns 50 percent or more. But here, the question arises, by which law, public enterprises operate. I remind you that these companies operate under the Company Act, that these companies form administrative and, in particular, I underline, supervisory committees, which are responsible for the audit and control of the business of these companies. I do not dispute the right of the owner, so let it be the state, to participate in the decision-making process, to participate in the control, but it is disputed that at the level of local self-government, a budgetary inspection or another who will have the powers of auditors or control in public enterprises, while ignoring that these companies are operating on the market and that they can achieve and profit, that they can be privatised in a way that has been determined by the Law on Privatisation of Public Enterprises, but the Law of Privatisation of Public Enterprises, and that enters into another sphere of the independence of these companies and the de facto quality of work that can be achieved in these companies. I could talk a lot about other questions in this, but the question is, why are we in a hurry, why are we in a hurry, and why may some future events be prejudicial? Ladies and gentlemen, the government debt is in the jurisdiction of the federal state and the National Bank of Yugoslavia and it is not right to set up such things for the National Bank of Yugoslavia to serve the Republic government in creating debts. What are we talking about? Do we think there will be no Yugoslavia? Why are we so quick to prepare for such a variant, even though negotiations on the subject are not over? It is a question that is being asked here and whether the government is actually pushing the Republic of Serbia before all agreements are reached, into an independent state, which will be able, among other things, to be in debt in the way that suits it. I do not dispute the right of the Republic, but it must be primarily a procedure to be implemented on a federal level, as long as there is a Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. It is not right for us as the Republic of Serbia to take any step that would go hand in hand to those, above all, those people in Montenegro, to learn from it or to conclude that Serbia will not be with them and to tell them to leave us. So that's the essential message that can be drawn from this law, and that's why I'm sorry that I can't hear Mr. Djelic answer these questions, what exactly was that provision trying to achieve? Who now prevents the federal government or the National Bank of Yugoslavia from deciding whether a sovereign debt should be introduced into the Republic of Serbia or not. And there's most DOS. Why are we taking this to a republican level? That's one key question for me, and I think it deserves a careful and delicate answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-21-0.u18751	Do you want to use 30 seconds? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-21-0.u18752	Serbian Radical Party MPs, because they have made sure who Boza Derikoza is, will not vote for this law because Boza has eaten these citizens and this law will do something even worse by making Europe miserable, and you want to go to Europe and therefore the Serbian Radical Party does not want to go along with you in such a Europe.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-21-0.u18753	The word has the People's MP Golub Rajic, followed by MP Slobodan Tomovic. The remaining time for the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group is 12.5 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-21-0.u18754	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, on the agenda of the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is the draft law on the budgetary system, proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia to adopt an emergency procedure, in order to organise the budgetary system in a uniform and comprehensive manner, and in the context of planning, preparation, adoption and control of the budgets of the Republic, territorial autonomy and local self-government. This law regulates the establishment and jurisdiction of the vault of the republican budget and the budget of local authorities, where all budget receipts would be made at the expense of the vault, with which all payments would be made, as well as the uniform arrangements for the adoption of financial plans, borrowing and issuing guarantees, accounting and control of plans of the Republic Health Insurance Institute, the Republican Pension and Disability Insurance Fund and the Republic Labour Market Office. The budget system law should replace the current Law on Public Revenue and Public Expenses. It will apply on the eighth day from the day of publication, except for provisions relating to local authorities, and the deadline for the adoption of all other regulations under this law is 12 months. This is another law that, like an omnibus for Vojvodina, such as the Law on Local Self-Government, the Law on Privatisation, the Labour Act and others proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, will bring chaos into the state. Serbian citizens didn't expect it and they don't deserve it. I don't know how necessary it is to implement the economic policy of Yugoslavia and Serbia in 2002, when we recently adopted the 2002 budget with 38.8 billion deficits; only to legalise it. However, no matter what, MPs of the Socialist Party of Serbia, as always, will try, as far as possible, to correct the law. This law avoids the government's responsibility for macroeconomic policy and the draft budget for the fiscal year by political phrases. And we haven't forgotten the DOS deal with the people. However, we see the situation today. So, there is no responsibility for the failures, and the government and the local authorities, when it comes to the availability of the funds, are given great powers. The payment of income is not limited. It is evenly fiscal with the calendar year, where there is no possibility of extending the budget year. I think the finance minister is being given too much authority. Of course he must be responsible for the implementation of the budget, but the National Assembly is certainly responsible for the government of the Republic of Serbia. When it comes to compulsory social insurance organisations, this includes republican pension and disability funds, the Republic Health Insurance Institute and the Republic Labour Market Office, especially members 6, 7, 20 and 25 of this law, I do not think they are well-organised, because these organisations are both given consent to financial plans and programmes by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the National Assembly. It is not necessary to tie specific contracts with direct beneficiaries of the budget, where their obligations and responsibilities are established and bonds are created, because they have an absolute level of responsibility for the management of the commitments undertaken, they are responsible for determining the revenue, as well as the character of the expenditure of the funds. The law provides for a budget reserve of up to 1.5% of total revenue for the financial year. Maybe it's a lot because so far it's been enough and 1%, but it doesn't maximise the amount of the current budget reserve and this should be fixed by amendment, regardless of how difficult it is to determine the amount of funds for unplanned purposes. In the part of the law that regulates government debt and state guarantees, I think the finance minister is given great authority and that's not good. The minister should certainly make proposals, so he can sign contracts, but with the consent of the government and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, where executive and legislative authorities would have greater responsibility. Because of everything the Socialists out there can't accept this law because it doesn't bring anything new, except it centralizes all the financial resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-21-0.u18755	The word has been given by Slobodan Tomovic, an MP for the Socialist Party of Serbia, last reported in a principle debate on the law on the budgetary system. Mr. Tomovic, the Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group has seven minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-21-0.u18756	It won't take that long, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People... It is good, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since we have successfully overcome these technical sound-related difficulties, I will try to keep your attention briefly on some of the accentes related to the draft law on the budgetary system, and this should essentially represent a summary of what my fellow Members of the Socialist Party of Serbia have already said. [[microphone is not enabled]] Therefore, the SPS does not dispute the need for such an important area, which relates to the budgetary system, to be managed in a unique manner and comprehensively. In view of this aspect alone, we can say that this proposal, which MPs will declare on this day and the next, is done quite correctly and that the methodologically defined solutions given here are indeed something that is quite correct about the trade and technology done in this law. But we want to draw attention, in addition to the things that are listed in the definition itself, let's say the borrowing for liquid liquidity. It's perfectly fine that it can exist, but only theoretically, because if it's serious planning, if the budget is seriously planned, if the sources are predicted in a way that they're realistic, then it can't come to the point that the source doesn't fill the budget in the dynamics in which it's said. So it can only exist theoretically, and it can't be something that in all situations when something isn't going to help us, so we're going to say -- here, we're going to print the bonds, so we're going to cover it up, so we're going to print the bonds again, etc. It would look like a little bit, you know, that old joke when someone took the exam for the captain of the ship, so he asks him, "What if it was a storm and he says, "I throw an anchor?" So what if there was another storm, he says, "I throw the anchor again?" Then the third, the anchor, where did he say, so much anchor, and he says, "Where did you get such storms?" You know, in those storms, it wouldn't be good if we printed those bonds. So it can only exist in theory and theoretically. Our next grudge is about the dynamics of passing this law. We simply think that this law of ours should comply with federal law. As far as we know, it's in preparation to pass that law, and then the question arises - and why are we in a hurry to pass this law? It can do that, said counterpart Todorovic, to cause doubt, that we are in a hurry not to know what will happen to the solution to Montenegro, so if this solution does not respond to the interests that mean a comprehensive Yugoslavia, then we have a law by which we will be able to function. Something like that, unfortunately, can be seen as a preliminary ruling. That's why I think there's been room and reason to make this some kind of consensus, because even in that Federal Assembly, our colleagues, members of different political options, are sitting. Also, I would like to draw attention to one more thing - we are here, in situations where other laws have been passed, arguing that the accent should be given to the legislative authority in relation to executive power. So, if you remember, right from this pay phone, not only the representatives of the SPS, but others, we have pleaded that we, as MPs, as the legislative authority, have greater powers than the executive authority. If so, and if we stick to it, then it's confusing, and I'm going to have to quote what's written in Article 52, and in the context of the debt and guarantee chapter, that the Republic may be in debt with a domestic or foreign trustee, in accordance with the law. So he goes on to say, "The Republic can conclude short-term loans contracts or broadcast short-term securities to finance current liquidity deficits. "And then, "The conclusion of a contract on short-term loans and the broadcasting of short-term securities is decided by the minister. The Republic can provide state guarantees for legal persons' debts in accordance with the law, etc." Not to quote now and Article 53, where it is said that in the process of concluding the debt contract, the minister makes a proposal, and the government makes a decision. The essence of this story is in the following -- it cannot be decided by the minister. It's decided here, because that's the practice we started a few days ago to inauguration. Does this mean that we want to give up such a practice? The minister can make a proposal, the government can make a proposal, but whether we're going to be in debt, whether we're going to make short-term loans, whether we're going to print bonds, etc., can only be decided by whoever made the decision on the budget. Because if something changes then that's why he can, then that's what he has to decide. That's why I think in that part -- which is the constant question of whether the legislative authority is above the executive, and I think it is and should be -- this should be done here. In any case, I think the law has the shortcomings that have already been heard here; as far as dynamics are concerned, there are needs and reason to comply with federal law and I'd just like to plead to do so, so let's discuss this law and then adopt it. Until then, unfortunately, we'll be against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-21-0.u18757	I thank the People's MP. This was the last registered speaker. Before I conclude a principled search, does one of the presidents of the parliamentary groups want a word? The word has been given by MP Veroljub Arsic, an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-21-0.u18758	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, before I start talking about the law itself, today and these days I've been listening to everything and everything, so it would be a turn, especially when it comes to demagogy, to say that demagogy and that same story of yours is about permanent reintegration, a connection to Europe and so on. Because, since you've been in power, even the banana states, like Macedonia, are introducing border insurance. These are your successes, your domains, you have failed to make it easier for you to facilitate the visa regime in no country, don't tell me more about the connections to Europe. As far as the law itself is concerned, I can tell you that it's okay for a law like this to regulate this matter to be voted upon. However, it seems to me that the legislator of this law is not regulated in the law, does not adhere to certain economic principles, so I can say that the law itself is incomprehensible, because when we look at Article 2 of the definitions covered by this law, I come across words that I don't even know what they mean. Not because I'm not well-read enough, but because those are words of foreign origin. Then I come across here and the legacy of the past, such as the organisation of mandatory social security, and I think the law already provides for a second term, a second term. This brings us back to the time of basic organisations of joint work, working organizations, Edward Cardell, self-government, and self-government can at least be in the budget. As far as Mr. Djelic's presentation is concerned, I see that you had to, and he mentioned that, too, to introduce guarantees in the budget system law. I'm sorry Mr. Djelic isn't here. It seems to me that every time I have to get out, he gets out of the O.R., and the reason he doesn't come all day and he gets it from Mr. Veljkovic, as my colleague from the parliamentary group, he doesn't seem to be waiting for the rest of us to talk. But as for guarantees, all your budgets have been made in deficits so far, and you've been talking for months about how you're going to make donations to cover budget deficits. What happened in this congregation a few days ago actually confirms that this is not true and that donations are a great pre-election lie. Because we've just given the EPS a guarantee to execute the repairs of its facilities. And that way, by selling the Serbian economy, you'll be filling the budget deficits. Mr. Minister also touched that the Assembly would have the right to gain insight into social security funds. As far as I am aware, Article 7 of this law regulates this, and this reads as follows: "The Minister, i.e. the local government body responsible for finance, is obliged to regularly monitor the implementation of the budget and inform the Government at least twice a year, i.e. the competent executive body of the local authorities. " Nowhere in this part, ladies and gentlemen, there is no Assembly. According to this article, the SRS has submitted an amendment and I think it is normal for the Assembly, which accepts and changes the budget, not only to be able to review the final account, but also to oversee budget implementation during the year. The SRS also predicted that according to this law and the adopted amendments, the Assembly should be informed of the budget implementation plan. Mr. Minister spoke to the powers of the budget inspection and it seems to me that, according to him, the budget inspection should not only oversee the regularity and legal basis of budget implementation and spending, but also give recommendations on how these money should be spent. So that comes down, ladies and gentlemen, to the next -- the budgetary inspection comes, say, into the EPS, into the mine, examines how money is spent, so now to technicians, engineers, people of the profession, determines where the coal supplies are, how to dig, etc. Or, as market inspection would come to trade shops and tell merchants which goods to purchase, which not to purchase. The law itself has so far been able to break the obligations between the state and the taxpayers. This law removes this possibility, and now I'm asking a question -- it happens often that the state owes to a company, regardless of its property, because this company often deals with imports and exports, so it creates obligations to the state. This law does not provide for beatings. The state will count on him, in case he doesn't pay his dues, 0.2% interest a day, and he won't have the right to charge any interest to the state. When it comes to the vault and the availability of funds, it can be said that it is an unprecedented centralization, and it is particularly suspicious from the moment you united the tax rates 17% and 3% in the republican rate, because those so far 3% went exclusively to the Ministry of Defense, so again the question is whether by one law, and there have already been a lot of stories about that money control, doesn't want anyone to control the military. Let's remind ourselves, it's still the only state body that doesn't control Mr. Djindjic. For the end, the budget is charged with revenue derived from taxes, excises and revenues from public enterprises. What's funny about this whole story is that this law, in fact, is that you make taxes and budget systems from the roof. In order for Mr Djelic to be able to fill his budget, it is not only necessary to raise tax rates and put even more burden on the poor material situation of our population, but to create market conditions that the economy in general can function normally. It is the obligation of the state, and the obligation of the economy to fill Mr Djelic's budget through taxes and other taxes. I already said once that taxes are, in fact, benefiting love between taxpayers and the state. But Mr. Djelic still has that love in one direction. As for the book he displayed as the budget of the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats, and Slovenians, these books were written 70 - 80 years ago. Unlike you, from the Democrats, we've been over it for a long time, so we've been in front of you for at least 70 to 80 years.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-21-0.u18759	The word has been given by MP Dragan Tomic, the mandated representative of the SPS parliamentary group for this item of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-21-0.u18760	So it is definitely a fact, ladies and gentlemen, that there is something missing in this bill; no matter what we call for European experiences, I must say that in the European Parliaments you are calling for, first and foremost, before the adoption of each budget, a debate on the economic and macroeconomic policy of the government in that country for the current year for which the budget is adopted. Here the term macroeconomic policy is mentioned, you don't know which one, you don't know who or don't know who -- whether it's for power or for the people. The economic policy of each country must be presented to parliament, the citizens will hear it, and will know from that how they will live next year, which their conditions and parameters are set in tax policy, development, economy, employment, perspectives for young generations, etc. This proposal does not contain any of these elements. That's a clear fact. We do not need to consider stories here as representatives of one party or another, this is the need of the population, all citizens and this Parliament, because you do not have the right to have that experience that you are calling for to eliminate in this law. Secondly, this is a law that has absolutely technical character. This could have been solved by a manual or by certain sublaws. In this case, the government of the Republic of Serbia will have to bring in a series of sublegal acts, which will lay down rules of conduct for all budget beneficiaries. There's a contract coming up. It is an experience from the West, but it must be specified in direct budget users, in indirect budget users, as well as in how mutual rights and obligations will be regulated. Furthermore, this law definitely establishes itself and introduces the deficit to all doors as one category of special importance. I have to say, in this year's time, we've established four parameters that will fund budget deficits. The first and basic privatisation is: by introducing funds into the Republic of Serbia's budget. It is said here that it will be one of the main revenues for financing budget deficits. That's where we differed in concepts, because we asked for business, banking, local communities from which companies were sold. Secondly, donations were mentioned. It's been said these days that there's nothing to do with that job, for all sorts of reasons. The third is the dedicated credits of international organisations, which are of an ultimative character, according to a special interest system, for a long period and for a long number of years, exclusively for financing budget deficits. The fourth is the law on extraprofits. The figures have been mentioned that some 8 billion marks will be charged on this basis in this country, with estimates and statements that the funds will be targeted for the welfare and that they will be distributed to the citizens of Serbia. Obviously, if someone thinks they're elements for a serious government, if someone thinks they're arguments to fund the state with, then we don't completely understand each other here. The main economic policy arguments of a particular government are: healthy economic development of the economy; healthy national banking that will serve economies with real interest rates; healthy tax policy based on real taxes. So it's not a problem if someone here pays 200 dinars or 2,000 dinars of tax; the problem is if we've charged someone 200 million taxes. In the right way - the fight against the gray economy. The term has been kicked out of the public lately and there's talk of fighting corruption and bribery. No, gentlemen, against the gray economy. She's one of the problem generators in this country, and there must be a serious struggle on this plan. The old communist phases were -- when you don't want to finish something, form a commission. On this basis, in this country, various councils and commissions have been formed, by my estimate, one-five, that send messages to the citizens. That's what professional people do for a living. We used to have Curtis' fighting teams, and today we have Djelic's crews. There's nothing to do with that job. It's systematic work, mutual respect and clearly justified control in one organ, not in seven and eight organs, as it now stands. There's no real fight against the gray economy. Next, it's no newest vault. The vault is needed and it is necessary, but we cannot hand over the vault exclusively to the finance minister, call it the keynote of the state register, but clearly define what parameters they are. We cannot bring into that part the resources of the users and the providers of pensions, disability, health, labour markets and other areas, where it is clearly defined that contractors in this business are service providers and users. Those rights must be under their direct control. There is no dispute over the fundamental control of the state, from the government, from all the institutions that need to be controlled, and even from this Parliament. Their availability must be basic, and in their interest it must be made known. Why aren't we talking about reforming that structure here? And she survived our power, and she survives you as one of Hydra's heads that no one can do anything, we have no fundamental changes in that area, we have no changes in the rules in that area, we have no real taxation in that area. Also, we have an intervention in some categories of population, such as pension insurance insurance, agriculture, capital, gross income from an employee in an economy that doesn't belong to them, their income category. And not to mention other categories, which also exist. So, in the good part of the law, we replace the thesis, do an absolute centralization of finance. Therefore, there can be no speech about decentralisation, about flexible observation of Serbia's economy. There's no story here about economic policy, and there's no story of how to get out of the deficit. I guess every government struggles to have a surplus in finance. It will result in tax collection, customs collection and a stable development of the economy. This will result in happy people in education, in health care, in the judiciary, and we will have the employment of young generations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-21-0.u18761	Thank you. Since there are no more applications for discussion, neither the president nor the representatives of the parliamentary groups, I am concluding a principled search. I put the draft bill on the budget system to vote, in principle. For 124, against 43, the abstentions were not voted by 12, a total of 179 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly adopted the draft bill on the budgetary system, in principle. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. Here you go. [[Zagor in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-21-0.u18762	The proposal under the Rules of Procedure has a right to an MP, and you know it well. Come and say it. ) In accordance with Article 138, as well as the previous days, I propose that the debate on amendments be held for three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-21-0.u18763	I would like to put a vote on a proposal from the People's Parliament to hold a three-minute debate in detail on this bill. Each proposal is specifically decided. [[Zagor in the O.R.]] No, we're going to make a salad proposal, and we're going to have a debate about it. I ask the Members of Parliament to plead with the vote. For 100, against 29, two abstentions, were not voted 45, a total of 176 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided to search the details of this proposal for three minutes. According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-21-0.u18764	Madam Chairman, I really don't know how long you'll be conducting terror in this assembly towards the MPs of the SRS and ignoring the fact that we're reporting for a word in the Rules of Procedure. You didn't give us a replica yesterday. You leave yourself the right to conduct terror in this congregation, which is truly unimaginable. The proposal of the SRS MPs is to discuss each amendment for one minute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-21-0.u18765	If I understand you correctly, the proposal is to limit it to one minute? Yeah. ) I am putting to the vote the motion by Parliament of Parliament Gordana Pop-Lazic to limit the debate on amendments to this bill to one minute. For 55, against 14 abstentions, the 11 did not vote 83, out of a total of 163 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has rejected this proposal. We continue the discussion in detail. [[Zagor in the O.R.]] (Free Janjic, from the place: According to the Rules of Procedure.) On what basis do you? Only the heads of the parliamentary groups, the presidents. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-21-0.u18766	Not that Mr. Pavlovic was the heir, he was just wearing Tito's staff, and he didn't get anything in his inheritance. I suggest that the debate lasts ten minutes. This gentleman who throws me, don't identify himself with his patients, otherwise he's a marijuana doctor.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-21-0.u18767	Okay, I'm putting a vote on a proposal from the People's Parliament to hold a debate on amendments for ten minutes. For 31, against 48, abstentions 6, there were no 84 votes, out of 169 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Bozidar Vucurovic submitted to the 1st amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The amendmentr wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-21-0.u18768	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I can see that the microphone is not on. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I see that the applicants of this legislative proposal yearning for the terminology of their ideologists, Cardellus and Labus, the independent complex organisations of joint work, independent complex interest organisations, social, health and any other insurance, etc. I have proposed with my amendment; will you, Madam Chairman, please, remind members of the Women's Network, that they prefer to solve their burning problem by petitioning the hairdresser now that it is no longer around the cake, and leave me alone to explain my amendment. I asked that the term "compulsory social security organisation" be replaced by "emergency and funds" in order to get you into Europe as soon as possible. Europe and European legislation do not know the term - the organisation of compulsory social security. If you told an Englishman the organization of social security, he'd die laughing. The institutions and funds are the terms used in Europe. But there's no problem here in terms, even though the government is unwittingly defending him by the fact that it's in Article 68. The Constitution. In Article 68. The constitution does not stand, of course, but because insurance and users participate in the management of the funds of institutions and funds. In this new coin that enters the vault, consolidated, is run by the finance minister. So no more institutions and funds, there's a finance minister who manages the funds of these institutions and funds. The constitution, Article 68, which is called upon by the government, says the rights on the basis of mandatory social security are provided through an organisation managed by insurance and users. These organizations are funds. Social fund, health fund, pension fund.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-21-0.u18769	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. ) I am putting the amendment to Article 1 on the vote. For 16, against 100, the abstentions were missing, did not vote 41, out of 157 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-21-0.u18770	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, for all the time this assembly has been in session, and that's more than a year, DOS's majority of one thing, I don't think, has learned. Whenever restrictions are imposed on the opposition MPs when it comes to the time of the amendment or the duration of the discussion, the discussion is normally much longer, much longer than when there are no restrictions. When there are no restrictions, MPs are focused on their presentations, are not in the mood and do not have time to worry about obstructing Parliament's work, and cutting time for each MP to explain his amendment is an obstruction of the right of the MP who is abused by the parliamentary majority. Please, don't throw it away, I'm using my time of amendment, otherwise I could have been as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group to discuss this reduction. That's all I'm paying attention to. As for Article 2 (you do not know what point is on the agenda, shame on you), as I have already spoken in my presentation, it is in this bill on terms that are not domestic, which do not exist in the Serbian dictionary. One of those expressions is the word "appropriation." It is the word of French origin, and the SRS thinks that if the people can't correct some mistake, they can at least rule it out, so it proposed by amendment to Article 2 that the word "apropriation" be deleted and that the domestic appropriate words that would mean "authorised budgetary resources", which is the right definition of that part of the law. Please, before we go to the vote, I will ask the president or the chairman of the National Assembly to establish the quorum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-21-0.u18771	National MP Veroljub Arsic expressed his doubts about the existence of a quorum for the work of the National Assembly, and I ask you to establish the quorum by electronic system. Here you go. I would like to inform the MPs present that today's session will continue after the break at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-21-0.u18772	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please insert identification cards into the MPs' units to determine the quorum. I find that we have a quorum and we can continue the debate in detail and decide on amendments to the draft law on the budgetary system. National MP Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? You've already spoken. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? An authorised representative of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group has sent me a notice saying that the parliamentary group and each of its MPs are individually withdrawing all amendments submitted to the draft bill on the budgetary system. So, I understand that this amendment by MP Veroljub Arsic was withdrawn, as well as by MP Dragan Colic as member 3. Members of the 4th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Rada Bajic and Hranislav Peric. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given by MP Dragan Tomic, as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-21-0.u18773	Dear Members of the People, Article 4 is one of the most important members of this law and is talking about the budgetary objective, which is the objectives of each budget. We said macroeconomic stability, sustainable and stable economic development and a reduction in the financial risk of the Republic. We treat that first attitude the other way around. We ask that it read: "The government of the Republic of Serbia, by making a proposal for a budget for the next fiscal year, determines economic policy." So it must be determined who is responsible for economic policy, because it says in the Constitution, the Budget Law, writes in every place responsible for economic policy and the economic development of the state. We can't go with the categories, but a clearly defined category. It means, "it determines the economic policy of the state, it is responsible for safeguarding the economic stability of the state, ensuring development, employment and avoiding financial risks. "That's about what it's supposed to say. Of course it's been denied. The motives for why this is rejected include the following: I guess you don't want responsibility for economic and economic development, employment and economic stability, you don't want the responsibility of hiring young generations, and you probably continue to promote budget imbalances, deficits in the budget, promotion of reasons for deficits in the budget. It's just amazing that whoever's responsible for these key developmental things doesn't accept it and doesn't want his basic mission to be that way, although in all other documents, it's a basic task for every government. Who's gonna take responsibility? You do not expect the people of this country or this congregation, which is only a legislative body; the congregation will not be horned for candles. It must be whoever is responsible, who is the executive body of the state and who is responsible for economic policy. When we say macroeconomic stability, it's like we're in a theoretical economic class. We're not even students, we're not students, we're people who need someone to answer to, we're chosen by the people, and we need someone to answer for this country's economic policy. Why he's running away from it, it's what citizens know best, and they're probably feeling on their back right now. So I ask this assembly home to adopt how it is proposed by Socialist Party MP Rade Bajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-21-0.u18774	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 47, against 118, there are no abstentions, not seven, a total of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I find that MP Goran Cvetanovic withdrew the amendment that he submitted to Article 4. It's a bill of law. Members of the 4th amendment, with correction, were jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Petrovic, Dragan Lazic and Dusan Ilic. The government and the Finance Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Stevan G. Guduric. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The MP is not present. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 36, against 112 abstentions, he did not vote 31, a total of 179 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I find that MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic withdrew the amendment to Article 5. It's a bill of law. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Mucic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here's a word from the People's MP Ljubomir Mucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-21-0.u18775	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia MPs, I have tabled an amendment to Article 6. The draft law on the budgetary system and proposed to delete this member for several reasons. First, it is pointless that responsibility for the budget and responsibility for decision-making is prescribed by this House itself, i.e. that the Assembly is responsible for budgeting. The second reason is technical, I have suggested that this member be deleted given that in several places, four or five, the basic provisions that are regulated by this article are prescribed. In Article 6, which I have proposed to delete, it says - the National Assembly is passing a bill on the budget of the Republic. Article 25 also states that the National Assembly, i.e. the local Assembly, brings the budget of the Republic, i.e. the budget of the local government, and in Article 2, also in the area of definition, writes - the law on the budget is the law that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia approves for each year expenditure and other expenditure, income and other income, borrowing and other financial transactions of the Republic. So it's written in three places. It also states in Article 6 that the organisation's financial plan for compulsory social security is carried out by the competent authority of the organisation, in accordance with the law or other regulations. Article 25 again writes - The National Assembly agrees on the financial plan of the organisation of compulsory social security; in Article 2(4), the financial plan is an act of the organisation of compulsory social security, which includes an assessment of the volume of current incomes and other incomes and the volume of current expenditures and other expenditures for a period of one year. In the last position of Article 6, it is unclear and confusingly written that, if the law is not otherwise prescribed, the authority responsible for the adoption of the budget and the financial plan referred to in Articles 1 to 3 of this Article shall independently schedule total revenue and expenditure, in accordance with the budget. Indeed, I think that all of this is excessive, given that it is clearly defined that it is responsible for the adoption of the budget of the Republic of this Assembly, or the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the local self-government, or the Assembly of local self-government, is responsible for the adoption of the budget of local self-government, and in Article 25, it is clear that the definition of the financial plan of the organisation of compulsory social security, which brings the board of directors, is given by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. For these reasons of technical nature, I have proposed to delete this member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-21-0.u18776	I thank the People's MP. Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 49, against 113 abstentions, there were no 16 votes, out of 178 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I find that MP Branislav Blazic withdrew the amendment to Article 6. It's a bill of law. I find that MP Vitomir Plužarević withdrew the amendment to Article 7. It's a bill of law. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Petrovic, Dragan Lazic and Dusan Ilic. The government and the Finance Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Mucic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here's a word from the People's MP Ljubomir Mucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-21-0.u18777	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have also tabled an amendment to Article 7, in which I have proposed an amendment to the position of the 3rd and 4th members. Paragraph 3 of Article 7 states: "For the implementation of the financial plan of the organisation of compulsory social security, the competent authority of the organisation shall respond to the Government". I suggested that instead of this attitude, it reads: "For the implementation of the financial plan of the mandatory social security organisation, the competent authority of the organisation corresponds to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. ". Why did I suggest this? In view of what I was saying about Article 6 that the financial plan of the mandatory social security organisation is brought by the Management Board or by the competent authority, and the agreement on the financial plan is given by this Assembly, I therefore suggested that this assembly have insight and to be informed about the business and achievement of the income, i.e. the implementation of the expenditure of the organisation of compulsory social security. That was the reason for me to propose an amendment to point 3. Article 4 is very important and I think that we have talked many times in this assembly about the need to be familiar with the implementation of the budget revenue and the implementation of budget expenditures. The article 4 of this article reads: "The report on the implementation of the budget to the National Assembly, or local Assembly, is submitted in a manner determined by this law." It is not written anywhere whether or not it is submitted or submitted, nor what it should contain, so that this assembly does not have any insight into the revenue until the adoption of the final budget account for the past year, i.e. the implementation of budget expenditure. I suggested that the report on the implementation of the budget, as well as the financial plan of the mandatory social security organisation for the January-September period, be submitted by the government to the National Assembly by November 1st of the current year, and a little later for local authorities. Why did I suggest this? As early as November 1st, we are moving into the budget process, so the basic rule is to consider a report on the implementation of the budget for the previous nine months of the current year, in order to have insight and the basis for planning, i.e. the adoption of the budget for the following year. Also, the report on the achievement of revenue and the implementation of budget expenditure for the current year is also important for determining the tax policy for next year, as well as for creating an economic policy for the next two years, as foreseen by the budget system law. We always advocate better control of budgets and budgets. However, this law on the budgetary system does not guarantee that this assembly will have the right insight into the availability of budgetary resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-21-0.u18778	I thank the People's MP. Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 45, against 108, the abstentions were not voted 25, out of 178 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I find that MP Gordana Pop-Lazic has withdrawn the amendment to Article 8 of the bill. I find that MP Lazar Marjanski has withdrawn the amendment to Article 10. It's a bill of law. I find that MP Stevan Kesejić withdrew the amendment to Article 11. It's a bill of law. I find that MP Miroljub Veljkovic has withdrawn the amendment to Article 12. It's a bill of law. I find that MP Bozidar Vucurovic withdrew the amendment to Article 13. It's a bill of law. I find that MP Alexander Vukic has withdrawn the amendment to Article 14. It's a bill of law. I find that MP Bozidar Vujic withdrew the amendment to Article 15. It's a bill of law. I find that MP Srboljub Zivanovic has withdrawn the amendment to Article 16. It's a bill of law. I find that MP Slobodan Janjic withdrew the amendment to Article 17. It's a bill of law. I find that MP Zlatan Jovanovic has withdrawn the amendment to Article 18. It's a bill of law. I find that National MP Natasa Jovanovic has withdrawn the amendment to Article 19. It's a bill of law. I find that MP Petar Jojic has withdrawn the amendment to Article 20. It's a bill of law. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Tomovic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 35, against 108, the abstentions were not voted 35, out of 178 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. The MP withdrew this amendment. National MP Tomislav Nikolic withdrew the amendment to Article 24. National MP Nebojsa Jovic submitted to the 24th amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. There's a word from the applicant for the amendment, MP Nebojsa Jovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-21-0.u18779	On behalf of the SPS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 24, which speaks about the establishment of a budget proposal and the delivery to the National Assembly, or local self-government. In this article, it is not disputed that Minister Vlad is proposing a draft budget, that the government consider the draft budget and submits a proposal to the National Assembly for adoption, but in this article I suggested that the composition of the 5th budget be deleted, because I believe that large powers are given to the president of the municipality, who should, upon receiving the draft budget of the local authorities, decide to amend the draft budget, consolidate the draft budget and deliver it to the local assembly. Given the level of authority of the president of the municipality under the Law on Local Self-Government, giving this authority to request additional information to the president, as an executive body, which does not have to be a professional person in this area, the function of the president of the municipality would be absurd. As I said, the president of the municipality doesn't have to be an expert on this area, this is where his expertise is being established in this area, and his authority is being placed above the municipal assembly, which is also elected by citizens. For all the above, I suggested that Article 24’s position be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-21-0.u18780	I thank the People's MP. Is anyone else answering for a word on this amendment? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 40, against 109 abstentions, there was no vote of 26, out of 175 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I find that MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic withdrew the amendment to Article 25. The 25th Amendment was submitted by MP Golub Rajic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There's a word from MP Golub Rajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-21-0.u18781	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, on behalf of the SPS Parliament Club, on the draft bill on the budgetary system, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to be adopted by the National Assembly by an emergency procedure, and as Minister Djelic here said yesterday, that is the most important economic and system law, I have submitted an amendment to Article 25(2), which I have proposed to change and read: "The government of the Republic of Serbia agrees on the Financial Plan of the Obligatory Social Insurance Organisation." In the proposed member, instead of the government of the Republic of Serbia, it was proposed that the National Assembly do so. By determining that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia agrees with the financial plans of the mandatory social security organisations, these institutions are given the importance of a parallel body to the Government of the Republic of Serbia or to the competent ministry in the area, which also establishes its executive character, which is not envisaged under the Constitution. The government did not accept my amendment, as the proposed provision retains an existing solution to the Law on Public Revenue and Public Expenses, under which the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia gives consent to the Financial Plan of the Obligation Social Insurance Organisation. In the discussion of the principle, I said that the members of the law, which regulate this area, the administration or former funds, are not well-organized and I think my amendment to Article 25 is better arranged. I suggest you accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-21-0.u18782	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 43, there are no 104 abstentions, 29 did not vote, out of 176 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Veroljub Arsic withdrew the amendment to Article 26. It's a bill of law. National MP Miroljub Veljkovic withdrew the amendment to Article 27. It's a bill of law. Member of the 28th amendment was submitted by MP Joca Arsic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept the amendment. He has the words of the applicant for the amendment, MP Joca Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-21-0.u18783	Dear fellow Members, here we are today, as has already been said, on the agenda is the Budgetary System Act. Since we have been dealing with very important systemic issues these days, such as ensuring working conditions, the security of crossing the street, and the questions of cookies, we finally have to deal with one issue that is serious, edits the way and is more natural about how the budget should be made. With my amendment, I tried to correct one illogicality, which is provided for in Article 28, in particular by his fourth position, which is the retention of the institution of temporary financing, unless the budget is adopted in the regular procedure within the scheduled deadlines. The fourth position of Article 28 states: "temporary financing, in terms of the position of the 3rd member, is carried out in proportion to the funds used during the same period in the budget of the previous year and up to one quarter of the total revenues allocated in the budget of the previous fiscal year." The 3rd is said: "In the event that the National Assembly, or local assembly, does not bring the budget before the start of the fiscal year, temporary funding is made in time of the longest three months of the fiscal year". So, there remains the Institute of Temporary Financing for those who, as is said here, do not bring the budget into the time foreseen by this law. The budget calendar was presented as a defined process for the creation and creation of the budget, envisioned exactly on dates starting in April of the month, ending on 15 December of the current year, and when it comes to the republican budget, and when it comes to the budgets of municipalities. Gentlemen, may I remind you that you have provided for the final position of Article 14th sub-paragraph 15 - the adoption of the law on the budget of the Republic and the adoption of the budget of local parliaments by December 25th, by the local authorities of the administration intended to carry out the financing, are required to deliver the budgets of the local self-government minister. With this explanation, I think I've explained enough the need for the absence of this attitude. I suggested that in the event of a possible inability to meet the congregation, these deadlines in paragraph 3 should be reduced to one month and one twelveth would be foreseen in attitude 4.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-21-0.u18784	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 51, against 107, a abstentioned one, was not voted 28 out of 187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Milorad Mircic withdrew the amendment to Article 29. National MP Lazar Marjanski withdrew the amendment to Article 31. National MP Natasa Jovanovic withdrew the amendment to Article 32. National MP Dragan Colic withdrew the amendment to Article 35. National MP Sreten Mitrovica submitted to the 36th amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The amendmentr wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-21-0.u18785	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SPS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 36, which speaks of the management of the commitments undertaken. In this regard, I have suggested that Article 36(2) be deleted, which speaks of direct beneficiaries of the appropriations being committed on the basis of a written contract, unless otherwise prescribed by law. I think direct participants in the budget should have an absolute level of responsibility for managing their commitments. I believe that direct beneficiaries of the budget should not assume obligations based on a written contract, but in itself it is understood, as authorised direct beneficiaries of the budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-21-0.u18786	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate applying for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 50, against 105, the abstentions were not voted 34, out of 189 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Goran Cvetanovic withdrew the amendment to Article 36. National MP Branislav Blazic withdrew the amendment to Article 38. National MP Vitomir Plužarevic withdrew the amendment to Article 39. National MPs Miomir Ilic and Zoran D. Nikolic submitted together to the 40th amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The People's Messenger Miomir Ilic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-21-0.u18787	The honourable MPs, since the parliamentary majority is in a hurry to adopt this legislative project, we will speed up the adoption of this law, and we will go a short way, and we are interested in much more important topics than the adoption of such laws, which we will soon change, and I will explain briefly. I have submitted to the text of Article 40 a amendment relating to the return of more or less paid budget revenues to the beneficiary of the budget for which they are intended, for a period of three days, in order to make the funds more or less wrongly paid. The government has not accepted this amendment of mine, for reasons it does not consider that it is not within the spirit of the deadlines provided for in the collection of income, but I believe that it is no argument and I believe that the amendment should be accepted, because it is given a three-day period for the income that has been collected to return in such a way. For this reason, because the state also collects some incomes that can be called extra revenue, because every day when an orderly obligation is not paid, it accounts for an interest of 0.2% a day, so I don't see why, if there is a wrong payment or more funds, it doesn't return within three days. I thank and do not withdraw the amendment to Article 41, I just do not want to participate in the debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-21-0.u18788	Does anyone else sign up for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 50, against 110, a abstentioned one, was not voted 29 out of 190 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, with written notice and signature, withdrew the amendment to Article 40. Also, MP Milorad Mircic withdrew the amendment to Article 41. Members of the 41st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Miomir Ilic and Zoran D. Nikolic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The MP has already explained this amendment. Is anyone else answering for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 44, against 109 abstentions, there were no 36 votes, out of 189 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Stevan Kesejic withdrew the amendment to Article 42. National MP Bozidar Vujic withdrew the amendment to Article 43. The amendment was submitted by MP Hranislav Peric to Article 48. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The amendmentr wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-21-0.u18789	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 48, where the budget reserve is regulated. I believe that there should also be limits on the budget reserve, not to be minimum or maximum, but to provide one percent of the total budget reserves for that fund. If this is not done, then there is a lot of leverage in the budget and there could be abuse of these funds or a higher figure for the budget reserve. For this reason, I suggest that my amendment sets out 1% in the budget reserve.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-21-0.u18790	Is anyone else answering for a discussion? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 48, against 110, the abstentions were not voted 30, out of 188 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Srboljub Zivanovic withdrew the amendment to Article 48. The amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Todorovic to Article 49. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The amendmentr wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-21-0.u18791	Ms. Micic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment refers to a permanent budget reserve. You have seen that this law stipulates that 1.5% of the total budget is allocated to a permanent budget reserve, with a view to preventing adverse consequences for human health and life or the destruction of material goods in the case of natural disasters - floods, droughts, fires or other emergencyes. The amendment refers to the part which provides for the possibility of the permanent budget reserve being used to finance other budgetary expenditures in the budget of the Republic or local self-government, but is not prescribed to limit the amount of funds, nor is it limited to the time of use of those funds in the event that an appropriate loan is made for the settlement of some budgetary need. The amendment aims to regulate the amount of fixed budget reserves that can be used for those other purposes. It is proposed to be one-third, with the SPS thinking that the time of use of these funds should not be longer than 60 days. It's primarily for reasons of caution. In particular, it should also be borne in mind Article 13 of this Budgetary System Act, which specifies the possibility of either the right of the Minister or the competent financial authority at the level of local self-government in order to be able to place a liquid budget reserve. Then there are several issues and possible problems: what happens to us if we exceed the quota of one third or we exceed 60 days to finance some other commitments from the budget; or, according to the law, through the minister or the competent authority of finance, we placed, and which means under some conditions, some loan to other entities for the use of some of the budget funds; what happens to us if, God forbid, then and at that time, great floods such as in 2000; this was the case with Loznica and the environment, that several times in just two months, there was a huge flood with enormous material damage, with people's health threatened and material goods in the area. And not to mention that it's possible, because nature is unpredictable, that other extraordinary events happen, and then we'd have a really big problem how to prevent such events if the budget is empty and the budget reserve is empty for some other purposes. That is why I find it illogical for the Legislative Committee to refuse this amendment. The exception is a few amendments that are allegedly legally possible... (President: Time. ....................................................................................................... and it turns out that one such restriction is not legally possible. I would ask the Assembly to consider all this and adopt the proposed SPS amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-21-0.u18792	Thank you. Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 54, against 106, a abstentioned one, was not voted 27, a total of 188 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Aleksandar Vukic withdrew the amendment to Article 49. It's a bill of law. National MP Zlatan Jovanovic withdrew the amendment to Article 50. Member of the 52nd amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Todorovic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The amendmentr wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-21-0.u18793	Ms. Micic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is about an amendment that I think is very logical and is in line with the debate we had in principle in the morning about certain powers of the minister, and when it comes to government debt. I remind you that this article provides for the possibility, i.e. the Minister's right to conclude on behalf of the Republic of Serbia, government debt contracts, or short-term loans from domestic or foreign creditors, in order to settle the budget deficit. There is nothing more logical than having a real budget deficit in such a situation during a financial year, the government is talking about it, and after talks in the Government, we also make appropriate decisions in the National Assembly. This cannot be an undeniable right of the minister, as there is a possibility that the minister would not assess the situation well, and why he would take responsibility for the state to go into debt to foreign creditors on the basis of the budget deficit. So every debt is a rusty friend, and it takes as many people as possible to consider this whole situation. That, ladies and gentlemen, we don't think that the vault is one trick or one scam, which is supposed to make everything transparent, and that only those who need to see the situation in that vault see neither the budget nor the budget system, nor the funds that blend into that consolidated vault account. Why am I talking about this? Because the IMF is over what's called the so-called IMF. A stand-by arrangement prescribed a commitment to the Republic of Serbia and the SRJ to introduce a vault until September last year. We're already kind of late in that sense. What's a consolidated account like that for? It serves to allow the IMF to see what we, as MPs, cannot see or what the people cannot see contrary to all the declarations that both the budget and spending on a consolidated account will be transparent and visible to every citizen in this country. Secondly, there is nothing more natural than the government making decisions on borrowing with domestic creditors, and that this National Assembly, like that story we had about giving an EPS guarantee, discuss the issue and make appropriate decisions. It is therefore the highlight of the absurdity that the Legislative Committee says that this amendment is not legally possible and that it is not legally possible in this assembly to make a decision under which the Minister's rights regarding the creation of a sovereign debt are limited in any way.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-21-0.u18794	Thank you. Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 46, against 106, no abstentions, no 36, a total of 188. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I find that MP Petar Jojic has withdrawn the amendment to Article 52. It's a bill of law. National MP Vladimir Garčević submitted to the 53rd amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The amendmentr wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-21-0.u18795	The Honorable Presidency, honourable fellow MPs, I thought I would limit my own self-will, self-rule and more than that the kingdom of Minister Djelic, who has dual citizenship. I thought the Serbian government would accept it as something normal. I guess for Serbian citizens, it's enough that Minister Djelic has 12 billion dinars. Take 5% and figure out how much of this budget is 200 and some billions, plus another 12 billion. There is no more self-power than is now being built. There's been talk, we want decentralisation. You've raised money in one place and one man to decide on loans, one man. He says the government is going to Serbia. I suggest that he participates in this, in the conclusion of the loan, the Prime Minister, and they don't want the Prime Minister, I don't suppose they trust Djindjic...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-21-0.u18796	Do I need to remind you of the text of your amendment? Please, get back to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-21-0.u18797	It's an amendment. If you don't trust your president, how do you expect the opposition to have that trust? I think you accept my amendment, but I respect the Prime Minister. [[Zagor in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-21-0.u18798	Thank you. Does anyone else sign up for a word? No, I don't. I'm putting it to a vote. For 40, against 106, the abstentions were not voted 40, out of 186 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Slobodan Janjic withdrew an amendment that he submitted to Article 53. It's a bill of law. I find that MP Ljubomir Kragovic withdrew the amendment to Article 58. The amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Todorovic to Article 58. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The applicant of the amendment wants a word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-21-0.u18799	Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment concerns the powers of local authorities in the work concerning the possibility of local authorities issuing guarantees. We now have a bill in which local authorities can be in charge and on the basis of capital investments, but cannot, on that basis, issue an appropriate guarantee. I suggested, I think, that this is a practical solution, that local self-government and competent local authorities, in the event that their public enterprises whose founders are able to provide adequate financial resources or other investment by a foreign partner or a domestic trustee, can issue appropriate guarantees on the basis of such investments. I don't see why it would be a restriction for local self-government to issue such a guarantee, because I guess it's easier from the point of view of finance, expenditure and budget income to issue a guarantee, than to take a loan or a loan that's embedded and which has its own cost position in the budget of every local self-government, including the Republic. Secondly, when it comes to debts, it is illogical that local self-government can take on debt, and it cannot guarantee and it is illogical that the competent executive body of local self-government decides on it, which is, as we know by the Law on Local Self-Government, the president of the municipality. It is proposed that we amend the position 4 on which the borrowing decision, and I add the guarantee decision, can only be adopted by the local assembly on the proposal of the executive body. I would change attitude 8. In this direction, the total debt-based assets made by local self-government over one year plus the amounts contained in guarantees issued by local self-government cannot exceed 50% compared to the implementation of the local self-government budget in the previous year. The bill said it was 20%. Please, what capital investment at the level of local self-government can be made if that investment represents only 20% of the budget achieved in the previous year. I know from experience that most municipalities in Serbia don't have a budget bigger than maybe two or three million marks on an annual basis. Which capital investment can be talked about, if only 20% of these assets, which will say 200 or 300, up to 500,000 marks can represent capital investment. I have suggested increasing this percentage and because the amount of guarantees can contain figures that will exceed 20%, but total and debt and guarantee cannot exceed 50%. Unfortunately, this amendment was also rejected by the Legislative Committee because it is not legally possible and there is no reason why.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-21-0.u18800	Does anyone else sign up for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 52, against 111, four abstentions, did not vote 19, out of 186 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Radojko Petrovic submitted to the 64th amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept the amendment. The amendmentr wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-21-0.u18801	On behalf of the SPS MPs, I have tabled an amendment to this Article 64, with a proposal to prescribe a commitment until when the competent municipal authority is due to submit the adopted draft municipal final budget account to the municipal assembly for adoption. This law wants deadlines for the procedure, preparation and adoption of the budget, as well as deadlines for the submission of the final account, to be regulated in a uniform and comprehensive manner. This article shall specify the calendar of the procedures for the preparation, assembly and submission of the final budget account. In particular, it is prescribed that by 1 June the competent municipal authority of the administration shall submit to the finance minister the final accounts of the municipal budget adopted by the competent municipal executive authority. I believe that it is obviously missed to prescribe obligations and deadlines, that an accidental failure has been made, that the final account of the municipal budget is delivered to the assembly of the municipality for adoption. In the adoption of the municipal budget, a precise deadline has been set, and that should be the exact time limit for the final account to be delivered to the assembly of the municipality. As a result, I proposed that the deadline be fixed and that it be specific on 31 May. It's a really reasonable deadline. The deadline will avoid the possibility that the final accounts of the municipal budget be late delivered to the municipal assembly or not delivered at all, causing serious problems and disagreements on the ground, even the possibility of someone deliberately causing obstruction. However, the government replied not to accept the amendment -- "because the proposed calendar for the submission of final accounts required that by 1 June the local government authority responsible for finance submits to the minister the final account of the local government budget, adopted by the local government's competent executive authority. "You see, there is no obligation to deliver to the municipality, and some analogy is introduced, which in any case on the ground can be interpreted differently. If we look at Article 74, where criminal sanctions are prescribed for missing deadlines and reporting, it is not mentioned anywhere that criminal sanctions are prescribed or that it is an offence if the final budget account is not delivered to the municipality. For this reason, I really believe that the amendment has room to be accepted and to remove this, in any case, I mean a random failure that came from the promoter.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-21-0.u18802	Does anyone else sign up for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 52, there are none against 117 abstentions, 19 did not vote, out of a total of 188 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 69th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Petrovic, Dragan Lazic and Dusan Ilic. The Financial Committee has adopted this amendment, and the Government and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does a representative of the applicants of the amendment want a word? Here you go. ) The word has a People's MP Srdjan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-21-0.u18803	Dear colleagues, a member of the 69th regulates the work of a budgetary inspection in the first place. We believe that it is not well defined enough, in fact that this budget inspection is not well defined by attitude 1 and we believe that attitude 1 should read as follows: "The work of the budgetary inspection is independent. Her work, powers, markings and others will be regulated by the government's special act on the proposal of the finance minister. This act will also regulate the right to appeal against the inspector or auditor in the administrative procedure." Once again, I think this is a better explanation, a better definition of budgetary inspection, and the Finance Committee agreed, and I suppose the minister would agree that he is here, so I suggest you vote for this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-21-0.u18804	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 116, against 35, with three abstentions, did not vote 36, a total of 190 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment most of the votes. National MP Bozidar Vucurovic submitted the amendment to Article 72. I find that MP Bozidar Vucurovic withdrew the amendment to Article 72. Members of the 73rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Petrovic, Dragan Lazic and Dusan Ilic. The government and the Finance Committee have adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Since we have completed the review of the draft law in particular and the decision on amendments, the proposing representative is not present and there is no final word. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. I put the draft bill on the budget system in general. For 128, against 50, the abstentions were not voted 10, a total of 188 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the draft bill on the budgetary system in general. According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-21-0.u18805	Since by the end of the work, ladies and gentlemen, there's been a little over an hour left, and we don't have a proposing, I suggest we take a break until the next day, so now we stop.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-21-0.u18806	I would like to put a vote on a proposal from the MP to set a break and continue our work on Monday, as the proposing representative is not present. For 137, against 39, the abstentioned were not voted nine, a total of 185 MPs. Most of the votes the National Assembly made a decision to continue the work Monday at 10.00 hours.
