ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23000	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the Fifth Extraordinary National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia held on 9 July 2002. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, today's session is attended by 87 MPs. In order to determine the quorum, I ask all members of the Parliament present to insert their identification cards into the MPs. I find that the application of the electronic system has established that we have a quorum for work and that we can continue the work of the session on the established agenda. I would like to inform you that the following MPs will be absent: Zaharija Trnavcevic, Jelena Milenkovic-Orlic, Predrag Stojanović, Milos Radivojčević and Sredoje Mihajlov. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-President, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. Also, according to members 83 and 84. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly of Natasa Micic invited representatives of the Centre for Free Elections and Democracy, the National Movement "Resist", the National Democratic Institute, the Association of University Teachers and Teachers of Serbia - the Kolubara Section and the representatives of USAID. I welcome the guests present. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: - PROPOSAL OF THE RADIFUSION LAW(s) I remind you that at yesterday's session we started a debate on the amendment to Article 29, which was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. Parliamentarian Vojislav Seselj took part in the debate on the amendment as the applicant for the amendment and president of the SRS parliamentary group. We are continuing the search for this amendment. Does any other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. We move on to the next amendment. The 29th amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Andric. The Committee on Culture and Information and a representative of the motionors at the meeting of the Committee adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I am aware that this amendment has become an integral part of this law. Member of the 30th Amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23001	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I suggest that this article 30 be completely deleted, which speaks of the suspension of a member of the council. It reads: "When a proposal has been tabled for the discharge of a member of the council, the council can, by two-thirds of the total number of its members, decide to suspend a member of the council against whom a motion for resolution has been tabled until the Assembly's decision has been made, but no longer than six months." This is an amazing provision. The council of the Agency is the authority of the state administration. This principle that any body, especially the authority of the state administration chosen by the Assembly, can decide independently on the suspension of its member, does not exist anywhere. In parallel with this, you would also have to amend the Government Act, so there it states that the government can suspend a minister, if a procedure for the replacement of the minister is initiated, until the process is over. You can't introduce a legal principle here that doesn't exist anywhere within the legal order. You're building a parallel legal order here. Perhaps in another system there is, there may be in the system of those people who may have written this legal text to you, but those who wrote to you and who work in certain embassies or other agencies had to first study our legal order; what they wrote to you, to previously comply with the basic principles of this legal order. You see, even under the judicial authority, the Constitutional Court cannot suspend a member of its own who assumes that the conditions for resolution are met on any basis, until he decides on the resolution initiative. It can't do that in the Supreme Court, it can't do that within the government, it can't do that with any state authority. You are introducing this on the agency's advice - that when someone submits a motion for resolution, the agency's two-thirds majority council decides that it is suspended from the work of the council until it is decided by the initiative. I know that here, in the practice of the legislative authorities, you have demonstrated something similar, completely anti-constitutional and anti-business. You have removed a whole assembly here by throwing out half of their MPs from the Assembly because they do not attend the assembly sessions regularly. (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. Do you continue? Here you go. I'm going on. You did it here. It's about the amendment, and I know what hurts you the most, and I'm pulling out a legal parallel between this member who is completely contrary to the full legal order and the way you are breaking the basic principles of the legal order, which you are implementing in the workings of the legislative authority. Failure to attend a meeting of the Agency's council is a kind of political stance. Someone elected as a member of the council may want to preserve his moral credibility and in conditions where two thirds of the council members directly fell under the influence of governments or some non-institutional factor, which is a much more realistic assumption. He wants to preserve credibility and wants to demonstrate his position by not coming. Then you two-thirds suspend him by means of a two-thirds suspension. But why do you even need to suspend it? That's a problem now. If a proposal has been submitted to resolve if there is already a two-thirds majority ready to suspend it, then what is the act of suspension if the two-thirds majority, despite its opposition, can vote anything that comes to their mind. Then why this kind of suspension? So, not only do you seek to provide an absolute majority of the agency's advice, the two-thirds majority, you want to advance a uniform opinion. You're making sure in advance that no one can squirm in that council, protesting the poor work of the council. The council doesn't answer to parliament, it doesn't answer to anyone. The only thing that can happen is that there is a moral, saving, honorable man in the council to start a public debate on how the council works, that he may distract you, that you may repent of what you have chosen, because the congregation's majority chooses everything. You've absoluteed your influence here on the work of the agency's council against the power ratio shown in the elections, and you still want to secure yourself in advance. Korać, this is worse than signing a blank resignation -- that two-thirds of people within the agency's council can suspend one against whom the initiative was launched to be resolved.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23002	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 31 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23003	You can try your best to de-concentrate me, and you can't stop me from representing the amendments. I've already written 40 amendments for this anti-mafia law, for anti-mafia law. I've already written 40.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23004	I ask the MP to move on to the subject of the content of the amendments, and all other MPs to refrain from throwing and commenting, not to interfere with the speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23005	Ladies and gentlemen, here I suggest that article 31 be changed and I propose a brand-new text. What was in the old text -- "The president of the assembly sends a public invitation to submit a proposal for a list of candidates for a member of the council, no later than six months before the term of office of the council member. The call is addressed to those authorised applicants who have proposed candidates whose mandate stands out." First, we don't have an organ called the Assembly. He can only be the president of the National Assembly. This can't happen to a pedantic lawyer, but the layman can, to someone who doesn't care about anything, who's got a job like that, he doesn't care if it's the Assembly or the National Assembly. A serious lawyer can never do that in a legal text. Furthermore, I ask for an invitation to the parliamentary groups, as one of their previous amendments, to submit a proposal for candidates for members of the council, no later than a month after the establishment of the National Assembly. Why? This is where you meet, otherwise, with a very serious problem. It is said -- the speaker of the assembly calls for a proposal for a list of candidates for a member of the council to those who have proposed candidates whose term is up. Are these authorized proposings institutionalized in a certain way? Nowhere in the law does it appear that they are in some way institutionalizing. The law says they propose. Maybe they meet once to propose. How the president of the National Assembly will next inform them that it is a vacant place and that new people need to be proposed, if these are NGOs that have 700. Does that mean they have to institutionalize? It should mean that there is some supremacy over these NGOs who at least coordinate their work and who is sent this notice or sent this notice to all 700-800 NGOs. You probably had this problem in mind. I can't understand that you're so ignorant that you didn't even have that in mind. You have a secret solution, too. You may know in advance who to send it to and who to decide, but we don't know, the wider Serbian public doesn't know. Explain, you are required to explain whether it will be sent to all 700-800 NGOs, or only one or only chosen. To whom it will be sent, especially since this deadline is short. Is it possible for all 700-800 to agree within six months, the question is. How will they conduct the elections with each other when their representatives or presidents meet to decide? That's where 700-800 people come in, let's assume everyone's interested in participating, everyone wants their candidate, and there's lobbying, there's grouping, there's blackmail, there's bargaining, there's trade, there's no telling what's going on with these illegal organizations. Why are they illegal? Because none of them have any proof of the will of the people behind them. Who questions legality if they're registered, except you're staring at the fact that many of them are being financed from abroad. It's not legal. They make statements, many of them. Here, Bojana Lekic made a statement on Television Studio B that they were getting money from foreign government and non-governmental agencies. That's literally her statement. The other day, Biljana Kovacevic - Vuko made a statement that she was getting money from abroad and that she was not going to make any bills from whom she was getting the money. There, that Homen from the Resistance; he may be in the past in the Resistance, but I have proof, I have one project he endured to get from the Americans 600,000 dollars. I published it in "Serbian Free Minds." Just laugh. You break up the country, and then you laugh at it, you'll laugh at it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23006	I warn the MP of mandatory compliance with the parliamentary provisions.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23007	Why don't you warn those who come into my word?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23008	They are also warned, and you have an obligation to stick to the content of the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23009	And I have an obligation to pretend that no one here throws me in the O.R. Is that my responsibility?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23010	Their obligation is to refrain from being thrown away. I warn all MPs that this is the last warning. After that there will be a warning to the Messengers who earn.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23011	I'm surprised you haven't said those warnings before. I'm used to it. You can't scare me with that. You see, authorised proposings are required to submit a list of candidates for vacant seats no later than three months. So they only have three months of time, from when they get the notice, until they file the list. What if they don't respect that deadline? What if they're not able to make a deal? What if religious communities conflict and they can't agree at all? There's another problem, for example, in religious communities. They're running for two candidates for the agency's council. One can be Orthodox, and the other can be Orthodox? Maybe he'll be Catholic or Muslim. Will you be in a position to re-vote here on the basis of the religious commitment of each of them?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23012	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? Yeah. ) The word has been made by the MP Ivan Andric, the rapporteur of the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23013	The board rejected this amendment, since none of the things Mr. Seselj said stood. This is a purely technical member of the law, which, together with other council members, provides for one procedure that happens in the moments when the end of the mandate is near. As for the election of NGOs, purely for the sake of the public, Article 24 defines who, when and how it sends. It is, therefore, registered NGOs or associations of citizens, who, according to their statutes or their registration, are engaged in the protection of rights, the protection of freedom of speech, the protection of the rights of national and ethnic minorities and the protection of children's rights. Therefore, of course, an invitation shall be made to all registered NGOs which have one such provision in their registration. There is no procedural problem with this, but I repeat once again that this member is purely technical and predicts what happens when the end of the term comes to the elected members of the council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23014	The word is made by a representative of the promoter, Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Zarko Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23015	I will answer for the importance of this body. In that sense, I understand that there are many amendments and many questions, given that we are introducing practically one new body that has, it is true, great powers, but it is necessary to look at some previous members of the law that give even wider authority to the public to gain insight. I remind you that in the last paragraph of Article 24, the following says, "The Assembly may, before a decision" - may - on the selection of members of the council, organise a public conversation with all proposed candidates in order to gain insight into their ability to carry out the tasks of the Agency." So, not only will the Assembly vote, but the Assembly can, before voting at all, organise a public conversation with these candidates, take another look at these people, make sure of their competence. To what is otherwise clear, and as my colleague Andric said, I would only add that this is about registered NGOs, which are very precise, or very precise about what business they are dealing with. And, of course, they'll be sent a letter. Of course, their representatives will come to a joint meeting where they will reach that agreement. It's certain that when we talk about churches and religious communities, I don't know what time I say it, it won't be a church face, but they're going to propose someone they think looks like to do this job. So it's not necessarily a church face. (Glass: Priestly.) I'm sorry, priest face, I'm tired, please... So someone who, on their behalf and in their opinion, will represent them in this body. [[growls]] I think we should trust our religious communities and churches. I think they're going to make the deal, and by their assurance, it's very easy to reach. I can openly say that I was surprised by their claim that they would make an easy deal with each other. Obviously, they have an institutionalized mutual conversation, which I think is very good for our society. That's the impression I got from talking to them, because I've asked these questions too - how you'll deal with it; and they've answered - there's no problem, don't worry about it. Here, I would like to conclude, I remind you that the Assembly has not only the possibility to talk to candidates in the election, but it can also organise a previous conversation. So very large powers were given to the Assembly to gain insight into the members of this body on behalf of the public.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23016	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 32 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here's a word from MP Vojislav Seselj. Will you use all six minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23017	Yeah, let me make it easy for you. Look how kind I am, and I wouldn't have to. Ladies and gentlemen, in this article of the 32nd, on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, I propose that a sentence which reads "In the case of an equal number of votes" be deleted -- it is a decision at the meeting of the Agency's council -- "determining the vote of the president and in his absence the voice of the deputy president," because it is rather archaic and in our legal system for a long time does not exist. It used to be. At the time of the Kingdom of Serbia, this was the case with political parties. Who watched the statutes, perhaps of the Serbian People's Radical Party... (speaks Serbian) )The Serbian People's Radical Party - it's so registered, and you who don't know anything don't show your ignorance at every turn. That statute is... (Glass: Don't insult.) When someone is said to show ignorance, it is not an insult but a stimulant that he may learn something after this session. There was a provision -- at a session of the main committee, if equal to the number of votes for the two proposals, the overrun refers to the proposal voted by the president. It hasn't existed in our legal system for a hundred years. You're rebuilding it now in an unsuspecting and untasteful way. You should not do this, given that in our legal system the principle adopted and consistently implemented by all collegiate authorities that the president is only the first among the equal, and even in the Serbian government, the president is the first minister. He has special powers. His resignation also means the government's resignation. But he can't change a minister himself and his voice is the same as the voice of any other minister. If that principle does not exist with the highest administrative authority, the administrative authority, if that principle does not exist in the judicial system, we have constitutional courts. There, the voice of the President of the Constitutional Court is as important as the voice of any judge. We had a recent case in the federal constitutional court, vote 3:3, one avoided the vote, the decision could not be made, despite the fact that the President of the Federal Constitutional Court made a clear and decadent declaration of one variant. How do you get past the whole legal order here? Some exception you throw in. But it just amazes me that there are no lawyers to tell you that this is legally illegal; that you're making a mess in the legal system, on a whole series of examples. This is just one example. Andric can laugh until he wants to, he doesn't have to understand anything. But I'm surprised there are no lawyers who understand, and they have the courage to tell you openly. Look what's going on here. You didn't institutionalize or decide when to propose. The law should be put here - Zarko Korac is convinced that religious communities will easily agree. Because that's how he responded to our remarks, instead of the legal dictionary to answer one fundamental lack of law. He says - I talked to them, they convinced me they'd make an easy deal. There are 700-800 of these NGOs dealing with freedoms, rights, child protection, national minorities, etc. And the Association of Warfighters from 1991 to 1999 deals with human rights and freedoms. They fought for the freedom of their people. There is no more freedom from the freedom of the country, is there. Therefore, there are 700-800 of them, and there is no institutional model that they will agree on each other's views. How are they gonna make a deal? Who's to be left to? There's a letter at 700 addresses. It's missing from the law. There's no sublegal act that can handle it. Well, then -- who's gonna set them up for this meeting together? Is he who's oldest on the date of registration, is he who has the oldest president? Is it based on that? There must be some basis. There must be an initiative for their first, initial meeting. Whose will it be? There's no such thing. Except that Zarko Korać is convinced that it will be easy because he spoke to them. What's up, Lighthead? What member? First paragraph of Article 31? What's it stand for? There is no first paragraph but the first position of Article 31. The speaker of the assembly sends all of them a public invitation - that is what Ivan Andric here explained. Everyone's getting a public call - is that right? Tell everyone, but where is that missing link? Who will intercede among them now, to gather them together in one place? Who is it to assess whether an NGO really works in this sphere that is legally foreseen or not? It's in the register. ) Be careful, the register says things, and the Hunting Society can put them in their register.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23018	People's MP, please return to the subject of the amendment. Your amendment deals with how to vote at an organised council session.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23019	I'm just finishing up, but be careful, no member of the law here can be isolated from the others. When DOS representatives here call on other members, giving answers to questions asked by a specific member, that's not a problem for you. When I illustrate the problem, referring to other members and other problems arising from these members, then I am moving away. Don't surprise me, I just want to let the public know, that's all I'm saying.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23020	You have received a comment on the distance from the topic in the last minute allowed to explain the content of the amendments, in the last minute, with the expected return and reason of dyspression on other members. So, both you and other MPs. It is decided by the chairman of the National Assembly. People's MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the DOS parliamentary group, spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23021	Dear Mrs Comic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the decision on the council could be carried out by revote, consensus or the way in which it is, for example, responsible here, by establishing a certain qualified majority and offering a solution, if the same number of votes in some situations, in which the number of nine is not fully satisfied, has been blocked by the work of the council. If this was not the position of the law, then all these criticisms that have been brought forward would be justified, as nowhere could it be claimed that the President of the Council, or Vice President of the Council, has the right to a crucial decision. That's not what we invented, that's the technology that existed before this proposal, and it's going to exist in the future, because it's actually an effective way of overcoming the blockade. Wherefore is the great right of the President of the Council - according to the first fact that it is chosen by two-thirds of the members of the Council; the exclusive status resulting from such a high criterion also gives rise to the right to decide in critical situations, in which there is no choice because of the same views for, or against, a particular proposal. But deciding in one body can be either by revote, or by defining some other criteria such as. Introducing a two-thirds majority. What is offered here is the answer to those situations where advice can be found in a blockade, if both sides share with the same number of votes of their views. So, it's no desire to give someone more than they belong to, but it's actually a logical consequence of the way the president of the council is chosen - by a two-thirds majority. As for the people who will answer those calls, and the organizations of their work, we have no doubt that they will organize. Calls will be made to all NGOs registered in the Republic, or Federal Ministry of Justice, for action in the field of human rights, i.e. the professional framework of the profession treated by this law, and there are no fears or fears, especially as we expect them to be very responsible for accessing this business.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23022	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. ) We move to the amendment to Article 32, which was submitted jointly by MPs Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Adam Urosevic. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? The word has a National MP, Petar Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23023	The Honored Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, the Soviets have tabled an amendment to Article 32, where they propose that the 5th words "Presidents, or judges of the Supreme Court of Serbia", be replaced by the words "national MP on permanent work in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia". For the sake of the public, to read what the proposed text of Article 5 of the Law proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia reads: "For their work, the president and members of the council have the right to cash compensation at the height of the president's salary, i.e. the Supreme Court of Serbia." In the view of the MPs, it is illogical and out of my mind to use a slightly firmer term, that members of the council in salaries, i.e. in fees, be even with the President, or the Supreme Court judges. That, ladies and gentlemen, is the highest court instance in the Republic of Serbia, which makes very responsible decisions, solutions etc. and equate their work with the work of the council, according to us and the SSJ, it is inappropriate. In this republic, there is no greater judicial finding in a regular and extraordinary decision than the Supreme Court of Serbia. On the other hand, the question arises as to what the word "reimbursement" means, since, although we have not given an amendment to the position of the 6th member, if we look at what is in the position of the 6th and what are the powers of the President of the Council, the question is whether he will be in a permanent working relationship, that is, and the members of the council? If you will be in a permanent working relationship, then you can't talk about compensation, but you can talk about profit. So, about the salary, to translate into our language, not the fee. The fee is paid for some work that lasts a month, two, three or a week, or to complete a particular job; then a fee is agreed; and the profits are made for permanent work, in fact, being realised on the basis of labour rights, or under the Labour Act. For this reason, we propose that the Government adopt this amendment to the Soviet Union, because we think it is more appropriate and appropriate for this kind of work, which should be done by members of the council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23024	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? The word is made by MP Vojislav Seselj, president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23025	Ladies and gentlemen, I support an amendment on which members of the agency's council can't have salaries as president and judge of the Supreme Court. First of all, the problem is that you called those fees compensations compensations rather than salaries. This kind of law and this number of responsibilities implies that members of the agency's council must professionally carry out their work, not on a part-time basis. If they're doing it part-time, the fees are huge and inadmissible. Professionally - first, their fees can be linked to the judges and the President of the Supreme Court, because the agency does not, by its nature, belong to the judicial branch of power. The agency, by its nature, belongs to the administrative branch of the government, executive and administrative, so the salaries of members of the agency could be compared with the salaries of ministers in the government. That's what I'm different from the pride of the amendment. However, when the salaries of the highest institutions are compared, then the President of the Republic should have the same salary as the President of the Constitutional Court, the President of the Supreme Court and the President of the National Assembly. These are the leaders of the basic three branches of government. Since the Prime Minister is a second person in the administration system, he must have a slightly lower salary than they do. This body must not be as important as the Serbian government. So his members can't have salaries as ministers, the pandan to the ministers in the area of the court's power are the judges of the Constitutional and Supreme Court. They should go to a lower level of pay. The question arises: Can this be the wages of the messenger of the people, for none of them have been chosen by the will of the people? They received indirect authority from the National Assembly, not from the people directly. But it would be tolerable for them to get paid to the pay level of the MP, and I don't think anyone would be making a problem here. But putting them above the MPs and putting them in the same rank with the judges and the President of the Supreme Court, it's unbearable. Whoever wrote this law didn't even think about it. You should think about that, too. Whoever wrote this law doesn't know what the principle of the division of power is. From Montescia, without the principle of power-sharing, the democratic political system is impossible. Yesterday, Cedomir Jovanovic said he did not accept the party state. Our insistence that political parties participate in the selection of members of the agency's council was called by insistence in the party state. It is not true, the party state exists only in the one-party system, in the essentially multiparty system there is no party state.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23026	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? Yeah. ) The word is attended by MP Zoran Angelkovic, authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23027	Ladies and gentlemen, the SPS supports this amendment, not because of the amount of revenue any member of the council would have, this is about whether members of the agency will have a higher salary, perhaps even from members of the Supreme Court. After all, it may be wiser not to write anything, so let them determine the salary on the basis of some of their budgets, so that these salaries and those receipts may be even higher than the receipts of a Supreme Court judge or minister. When it writes, it cannot be written in a way that implies that the Agency's advice is at the level of the Supreme Court, because it then brings into one position and other state institutions that they are something they decide on the essence of life, which they would say, the lives and deaths of these people who work in various broadcasters, or radio-television stations, and essentially they don't decide. In addition, this law provides for a second degree in certain affairs, such as a regular court, such as the Supreme Court; well, if so, it is logical even by that logic that the members of the agency receive less wages than the Supreme Court judges. I think the wisest thing is not to write at all the height of the salary here, but to have the agencies and the advice of the agency determine their salaries. And, logically, they are exposed to the court of the public; so they will know whether they respect any normal procedures or some normal incomes that are acceptable in the state at that time. It is therefore not good to equate members of the council with the Supreme Court or with any court or any agency. If they were to be even, then it could be said that they would receive a salary at the level of the president of the Serbian Parliament's board or that the salary would be at the level of state salaries received in the Republic of Serbia, i.e. a republican average at the level of what the Serbian Parliament determines for state officials. Therefore, I suggest that this amendment be accepted or modified and that this position be completely omitted.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23028	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 34 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) Will you use the time of president, six minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23029	Yeah. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in article 34, I have only a comment on attitude 7 and I suggest that this position 7 be deleted. The member treats the agency's funding and refers to the financial plan. It's a good thing there's one possibility of the influence of the National Assembly here. You have stated again - Parliaments, which is illegal and you have to correct it, at least in the technical order of the law must stand - the National Assembly; in the third position you say that consent to the financial plan is given by the Assembly, and it should be - the National Assembly. However, it is good that the Assembly at least here, with agreement on the financial plan, can have a certain impact on the agency's work, but not enough. However, in the seventh point, you point out - if the annual account of the Agency's income and expenditure finds that the total revenues of the agency are higher than the expenditure achieved, the difference in funds is paid at the expense of the Republic of Serbia's budget and is allocated to equal parts for the promotion and development of culture, for health, education and social protection. This is not allowed. If it's paid into the budget, then it's an additional way of filling the budget. There's no budgeting for quite certain purposes. The budget is being filled, and the budget plan envisions how many per cent of the budget implementation will be used. You can't just single out some budget users right now. Does that mean they'll get more money than they're supposed to do with the budget plan? We shouldn't. No one gets more money, and it shouldn't take any less money than it's supposed to budget. It's a kind of budget-charging thing, and that's why this is unbearable. You know, there are still a lot of examples that show that you don't understand some of the essential things about fiscal policymaking, and also about rights and morality. We had a case here that brutally fined SRS MPs; you have the majority, you have the power, you have the power, you take the money. It's your right. Whoever has the power has the right to take. But what was extremely immoral and unbearable about it? The fact that the president of the National Assembly has made a statement that the money that has been taken from the MPs is given for a very specific humanitarian purpose. First, it's the damn money, no one can get lucky with that money, no one can get happy. Only an accident can happen. When money is charged from punishment, it is directed to the budget to be disfigured and that is why I have set the example, and otherwise, you are to the will. The money comes out when it comes to the budget, and then it's distributed to the budget users, and none of them know, it shouldn't, and it shouldn't know who that part of the money was paid from. That's the essence of the budget. You know who fiscal bonds are, who pays taxes, who pays taxes, you know who has to pay fines for crimes, for crimes, for crimes. All that money is accumulated as a budget income and then it is taken away; when that money is collected, then the bills are not marked on the basis of where it came from; whether it is some of the penalties, whether it is some of the taxes, whether it is any of the donations, whether it is one of these, or whether it is one of them. The buildup of that money makes sense that he'll be decapitated, when that money comes out, then he'll be deployed to the budget users. You know, maybe I'm overexplaining when I'm explaining a problem, but I'm doing it because I feel like you don't understand. Perhaps one of you has a good will and a desire for this law to be better formed, to formulate itself as best possible, but you don't show that desire in an adequate way. You can't say - the agency's surplus revenue goes to the budget, but only for those and those purposes. It's impossible. If you want to improve the state of education, culture, health care and, what else you have stated, social protection, increase the items in the budget on the balance of these activities, and then try to fill that budget, but not by killing taxpayers, but by stimulating tax policy, you will force them to expand the scope of jobs, to make more profit in order to have more income. It's the easiest thing to charge a huge tax once; once you charge it, you kill a taxpayer, and then there's no one left to charge from. So, the whole series of problems is about this, but I insist, and I hope you won't be ideologically blinded when you consider these amendments. I hope that you will appreciate all the effort that has been put into their formulation, that you will take their seriousness and that you will accept them, since the government has not yet spoken of any amendments, at least I have not received a report from the cabinet. It is possible, therefore, to still accept the largest number of these amendments in order to improve the text of the law. Of course, you can say that you do not accept any, and that is your manner, or you accept only one, ironically enough, to announce to the public that one amendment of the Serbian Radical Party has been accepted. You don't have to write any of these amendments, nor do I explain them here for you. I do it for the people and for the SRS which, criticising you, makes better projects, projects that will be completed and ready as soon as we take power to apply them.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23030	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? Yeah. ) The word is attended by MP Zoran Angelkovic, authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23031	Ladies and gentlemen, this position in Article 34 in fact violates the concept of a law that implies the independence of the agency. You can't have independence and limited independence. You have independence in determining the fee, which is the next member of the 35th, which speaks of the Agency's revenue making up the funds resulting from the compensation paid by the broadcasters under this law for the right to broadcast the programme (the programme permit). So, neither this assembly nor the government has determined what compensation will be according to the broadcast programme, or by frequency, for radio or television stations. The Agency's advice, to be exact, determines for itself what the fee will be at the frequency or at the time of the broadcast, by the captain, which will determine the fee. So it determines the amount of compensation itself, determines the actual amount of income, just doesn't determine the excess of that income, in which way it will be spent, but rather, that surplus income in article 34 is essentially predetermined. This means that there is no absolute independence, which means that it has limited independence, and you can't have both independence and limited sovereignty, as we would say. I don't think limited sovereignty here should exist in the law, if we want to give the full right to decide everything. After all, even if we wanted to limit that right so that the funds could not be transferred next year, then it is logical that these funds are directed right at the development of broadcasting, to the development of broadcasters, to help smaller or to develop and cover those territories of Serbia that do not have 10 or 15 programmes, which, even after this law, may have one or two television programs, several radio stations, compared to the environment where there are 50. If this surplus was not to be kept on the agency's account in the following year, to be transferred, then it was more logical to write that these funds would be spent in those areas that have the least emitters, to meet the needs of citizens for information and so on. In addition, let it be the income of a Serbian broadcasting organisation, or be the income of smaller broadcasters in Serbia's territory or for technological development in general of broadcasting in the Republic of Serbia. This variant is the worst, that now broadcasters, who already pay their taxes in fact and contribute to culture, health, education, social protection, through taxes, through price differences, through advertising taxes, to sponsorship -- again, for the second time, they tax. It is double taxation, and in the end it is forbidden, that again in some way they pay the tax in particular now and pay the budget. Therefore, for all these reasons, limited sovereignty, double taxation and the need for these funds to always be invested in the development of broadcasting, are in fact kept on account or on the agency's account or directed precisely for the needs of broadcasting development.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23032	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? The word is made by a representative of the promoter, Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Zarko Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23033	Please, honourable Members of the People, that when you talk about individual amendments and members of this bill, you look at the law as a whole. You have the parts here that talk about how compensation is paid and on which you pay compensation for the broadcast of the program. So these are members much later. So it's very precise how the fee is paid and look later, I ask you, these members who speak very clearly and according to which you can quite clearly determine how to pay, who is the exception, etc. We're talking about a possible situation here that we've been thinking about, that the agency can make extra income. It may not, but if it achieves an excess of income, our wish was to return it to the budget of the Republic of Serbia, but we felt, because of the specificity of the Agency's work, that it would be most logical for it to be directed to these budget users. Otherwise, it's not, in our assessment, about over-funds and if there's any extra revenue from the broadcasting fee. We have one amendment where it narrows down even more, and it wants to focus even more specifically, so we still show concern for these budget users and these areas, because, if I may say so, by the rule of the poorest; there is a huge desire and some of the priorities of this government to fix this situation, above all, in the field of education and health. Once again, I ask you to look at the other members of the proposed law, where it is very precisely stated how compensation is made.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23034	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) The next amendment to article 34 was submitted by MP Ivan Andric. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? The word is made by the People's MP Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23035	Mrs. Comic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment only wanted to focus more specific money on culture and education. Therefore, the amendment provides for eradicating the possibility of the money being allocated to health care and social protection. This amendment of mine is only stimulated by the fact that I don't think that these revenues will ever be so much that they can settle all four needs, so I think it's more useful that at least these two items have a little bit more benefit than these four specifics would, if they were to be distributed to them.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23036	Anybody else answer for a word? The word is from MP Vojislav Seselj, president of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23037	Ladies and gentlemen, the Serbian Radical Party is against this amendment, Ivan Andric, because he shows all the inconclusiveness of your work on this law. Now he's bothered that he's supposed to have extra money assigned here for the purpose of improving and developing culture, health care, education and social protection, so he says -- it changes that there would only be culture and education. What culture and enlightenment? Why not environmentals, for example? (Ivan Andric: Why didn't you suggest? Because it's pointless the whole attitude. I can't do it the way you do. Why didn't I suggest? What I would suggest, when it is pointless for you to predetermine something that goes into the budget, what purpose it will have within the budget. What exactly culture and enlightenment? Why not environmentals? First, the environmental conditions of our lives are most affected by a wide range of broadcasting networks. In the most beautiful places in nature rises the transmitters, repeaters. What's so funny? That's funny. On the top of our mountains, instead of being pure nature, you build a transmitter and set up a guard. Ever since you came to power, it's become completely poignant that competitors are destroying each other's transmitters, and now every transmitter will have to have a guard. In this way, the question of why you didn't predict ecology, I'm just showing how pointless the amendment itself is, how pointless it is for you to determine in advance where the money will be spent for the budget. You can say, if there's a surplus, the agency's advice will give donations to educational or cultural institutions. That would make sense already. Maybe museums, they're in the most difficult position, or theatres, all of those who get the least money from the budget; but to focus money on the budget and predetermined their purpose, you don't fit into budget proportions. Do you know what budget proportions are on this? If these money that remains extra in the agency goes to education and culture, then education and culture will certainly get less money charged than other budget users, so they will come to the same. If the overall budget is reached, they will not increase their total income by a single dollar because they will receive part of the money remaining to the agency. Not for a penny, but you don't understand, I can tell by your eyes that you don't understand. Then culture and education will get less general budget money, and they'll make up for this. That's ridiculous. What's he gonna get? It's completely pointless what you're doing. You can't predict this bill that someone in the budget will get more than the Budget Law provides. All other laws must be adapted to the Budget Law, because the Budget Law is the most important law after the Constitution, and not that you are now changing budget items by this law, and that is so obvious, if it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23038	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? The word is from MP Zoran Angelkovic, the authorised representative of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23039	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Vice President, that is the essence of the whole of the law, because these are being brought even more into the unequal position of the emitter. It's true, in article 67, it says who's free of payment. Of course, we know that Serbia's broadcasting has been released and it is not disputed, the civil sector has been released and other radio stations and television stations remain to pay compensation for the broadcasting of the programme. Now those who are already in some way subordinate or unequal - not in some way, but financially unequal because the civil sector and the public service do not pay any compensation - should finance the budget, regardless of whether it is culture, education or health. It is logical then, if they need to finance something, then they can only finance the development of an information programme, the development of a public service, the development of radio and television stations, not culture or education or health care or anything else. There is always a lack of funds in that area, but it must be settled here in the Assembly of Tax Laws, which fill that part of the budget. Therefore, it is not logical, despite the fact that this law provides that we in some way give consent to the budget and everything else, it is disputed that in any way what comes from one source goes as double taxation for another source in the budget, not in fact. Then it is said, in the following year, there will be so much and funds will be transferred to the agency, in the following year, by so many percentages there will be less compensation to the broadcasters. Well, let's worry about these broadcasters, let's worry about developing Serbia's broadcasting, not about Serbia's broadcasting taking care of another area.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23040	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 35th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dusan Cvetkovic, Bora Stanimirović and Dragan Todorovic. The word is by MP Dusan Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23041	My fellow MPs, Mr Minister, an SPS parliamentary group, whose name I submitted an amendment with a group of MPs to Article 35, believes that the republican broadcasting agency, as of its own independent organisation, loses much of its independence and independence in the existing form of Article 35. If the government has to provide the missing funds for the Agency's work when it fails to achieve the planned income, then the position of the 3rd member who speaks, quote - providing the missing funds will not affect the Agency's independence and independence - is completely pointless, only declarative and in fact represents a farce. You know very well, gentlemen of the DOS, that in the recommendations of the Committee of Ministers of Europe and the Council of Europe in the field of media, it is said that the way to finance regulatory bodies can act as a means of pressure. European experience has shown that regulatory authorities, if they enjoy financial independence, are completely free of potential influences. In addition to the agency's advice, the bill promoter has cast out the most independent and, it would be said, the most important member of the council, the representative of the Academy of Sciences, has also left the government with the possibility of having a practical direct impact on the work of the board and on the work of the agency. In part, by financing the agency, the government would like to keep an existing policy of endangering all media and, as you once said, make it impossible to create any opposition media. In times past, you said there were major media problems. However, I must tell you that there have been several positional media and dozens of opposition media, and this solution -- the money from the agency's budget, you are practically creating the possibility that all media will become virtually maids of power or at least run, writers and, most roughly, the courtesan authorities. Therefore, dear Minister, I think that, in line with all the European havens, it is necessary to accept this amendment, that possibly the missing funds for the funding of the agency are alluded not from the budget, but from the TV subscription. This will avoid doubts about the government's pressures on the agency's independence, and even after the assembly discusses their financial plan in a completely different way, a debate will be held in this parliament. That's why, fellow MPs, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I ask you to reconsider accepting this amendment, and I expect Mr. Deputy Prime Minister to... (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. )......................................................................................................... says what is controversial to accept in this amendment, which in the most transparent way practically separates the government and the budget from the funding of the broadcasting agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23042	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? Yeah. ) The word is held by MP Vojislav Seselj, president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23043	Now I would just briefly explain this amendment, because it brings out a good idea, what if the agency has a lack of income, and based on those legal sources. Here is an interesting proposal to make up for the lack of income from this radio-television subscription. You have introduced a radio-television subscription, even though you swore to lift it and not to think it would ever be renewed. However, you introduced her under an inadequate name. It's not a subscription. It could once have been a subscription, only when there was state television. Now there are a huge number of state and private televisions and you are forced to subscribe the owners of the apparatus to watch only one state television program. That's what's pointless. However, this is also fiscal income, this is a kind of tax or tax -- a tax on apparatus or a tax on the possession of appliances. You've covered up the essence of that fiscal income by this name of the subscription. This is often called parafiscal income in theory. It's not going directly into the budget, it's going somewhere right now, but it's fiscal, because there's a charge obligation and this bill is going in a certain direction, it's going to a state body that's covering it up in such a way as to finance it from the budget, but it's being financed directly from taxpayers. That's what's so difficult about all this. If you've already tried... I deny your entire concept of law, but now I'm looking for individual illogicalities in the concept itself. If you have already completely singled out the agency from other authorities of the state administration, if you have created it as an independent state administration, then you can provide it with independent sources of funding. If it can't be charged enough from what its primary legal sources are, then this is the most impoverished secondary source. Then again, she wouldn't be directly dependent on the government, but in the course of the year she says, we've charged so much from the emitters, the users of the frequencies, not enough for the agency to work, and we're taking that much more from the subscription. It's quite simple and by that this idea is not as bad as the way you fix your text, because your text is completely bad; and I'll say that when I explain my amendment, so I'm going to make bigger remarks about the content.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23044	Does anyone else sign up for a word? Yeah. ) National MP Zoran Angelkovic, authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23045	Ladies and gentlemen, this is also about duality. If it is the Agency's independence, then it should logically secure its own income and should not rely on the budget, because it becomes dependent if it does not depend on the government. Otherwise I agree to be addicted, but then by law and by law. If not, then it would be more logical if you had predicted that the total revenue from the broadcasting network, from the subscription you are introducing, and against which we are of course, but already when introduced into the law, comes to the expense of the agency and that the excess income that the agency has from both broadcasters and from the radio-television subscription goes to the public service. Then she's an independent agency, then she's actually managing a public service, then she's the total income that comes from one side of the broadcasting network and public service subscription from Serbian citizens, and on the other hand from the broadcaster, she concentrates on her costs and on public service as an improvement in Serbia's broadcasting overall. Therefore, then surely these two channels would be viewed throughout Serbia's territory; and then we would have a real public service and we would know that behind that both in financial and organisational and, if I may say, in the governing sense of independence as an independent body.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23046	Mr. Zarko Korac, the Deputy Prime Minister, the Proposer's representative, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23047	I would just like to draw your attention to the establishment here, as has already been said several times, of a brand-new institution. These problems can, in our opinion, only appear now at the beginning, when they are being built, because they are still starting to work. I'm warning you of article 66. The bill, where it's said to be paid and how it determines the amount of programme broadcasting fee. So, only by establishing that assessment, with consent, do you have the consent that is given, in this case giving consent to the Government, can it be wrong. We just asked one question. You have two situations: they can make a surplus, now people have been arguing that the surplus is going back to the budget, and they can happen to have a deficit, and then it's a question of who's going to make up for it. It would have turned out that we created an agency, that she didn't do her budget right at the very beginning and that they couldn't work. We've been thinking about how to help them. One option was that they could raise loans and loans, but now it's a very complicated story. We felt it would be best if only practically, in our opinion, it was the only possible situation, from the budget. The answer to the question why it is not from a television subscription - the main reason is because television subscription is so, in agreement with current management of radio - television and Radio - TV Novi Sad television, in their opinion, can barely cover production. I must warn you, it has been said here several times, our television in the war with the NATO Pact has been destroyed, and transmitters and buildings, etc. People have to lift up, and that's where the state's gonna have to help them, for years. They're in a very difficult material position. For the last 10 years, nothing has been invested in the purchase of equipment. In other words, don't make that subscription, which is a knap; it now looks like a large amount, but, if necessary, we will give the budgets of such public services in the former Yugoslavia's space. We will not compare further, we will go from Macedonia to Slovenia. So it's that these funds are planned for them, that they are for them, not for the purchasing power of the population, modest means. Subtraction and from these funds would be, if I may say so, another blow to that public service. Then the question would be, who else and why can take away what is their estimate of the financial costs they will have for some business, but very modest.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23048	There are no more reports of this amendment. National MP Vojislav Seselj submitted to the 35th amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23049	Ladies and gentlemen, Article 3(2) and Article 35's stance are completely absurd from the legal point of view. Paragraph 2 states: "In the event that the agency does not make the planned revenue on the basis of compensation", then it is said: "Station 1."where it says that these fees, which the broadcasters, in accordance with this law, pay for the right to broadcast the programme, are missing funds provided from the Republic of Serbia's budget." First, in order to secure these missing funds from the budget, they must be provided for by the Budget Law, in a certain way. Whether it will be a permanent budget item or funds of the budget reserve, it is already a second issue. You haven't changed the Budget Act yet. What does that mean? You're changing the Budget Act with this. He can't. You can have it, though. Paragraph 3 states: "The provision of missing funds in accordance with Article 2(2) does not affect the independence and independence of the Agency". Look out, for God's sake, it doesn't affect! What does that mean in the law - it doesn't affect? The law, if it doesn't want to affect anything, is looking for a variant of how to prevent unwanted influence. It doesn't affect, it doesn't mean anything. That should convince Djindjic and Djelic not to influence at some point. Be careful, if the budget does not provide for the item, no one from the government is obliged to make available the missing money. It doesn't exist in the Budget Law and it's over. Until it's in the Budget Law, it's not gonna happen. If the Budget Law is provided for, if there is a regular item, it is already the agency's regular income. If an ongoing budget reserve is foreseen to fill that hole, then again it depends on the state of the fixed budget reserve which, by nature of things, is unpredictable. It may occur that the Government appears to need money to supplement the Agency's budget so that, if it does not like the work of the Agency's advice, just before the request to be allocated from the permanent budget reserve, it spends the entire permanent budget reserve on something else, which is quite justified and which is in accordance with the law, as something that can be spent money from a permanent budget reserve. Until that moment, the government can empty a permanent budget reserve. What do I want to point to? The legal text doesn't take this kind of formula - if this, then that. It must be an exception in the legal text. The legal text must mean that the money from the collection of frequencies will be sufficient. In advance, you can predict how much money that is. It is known exactly how many national frequencies are possible in our country, as many regional frequencies as possible, as local as possible. We've also heard the explanations of people who understand that. If you have more national frequencies, you'll have less regional and local, and vice versa, but you're looking for a certain measure, so when the annual price of the frequency is determined and it's scheduled to be paid monthly, I guess that's the best way to do it, then you'll also consider the total annual needs of the agency, so the price of the frequency depends on these needs of the agency. You know, I absolutely disagree with this concept, but if you're already imposing this concept, I'm trying to teach you to do it legally, that there are no professional remarks, that there are no objections to the concept, but that there are no objections to the functioning of the concept itself. So much of your concept has internal weaknesses that it can't be applied in practice. So, if you want to secure independence from the government, it's never in absolute terms possible, but in this case you're declaring that giving money out of the budget doesn't affect the Agency's addiction and independence, lawyers are ridiculous. You can say by saying that giving money by the government, out of the budget, doesn't affect any other user's independence. I'm sure it's in practice. You can declare that at the university, that it does not affect the independence of the university, and we all know it affects. You can say with cultural users that giving money out of the budget doesn't affect their independence, but by nature it affects things. It's impossible to prevent that influence. No one's ever stopped him. Never, in any Western country rising from the highest democratic development, could that be prevented. The one who pays from the budget likes to determine the kind of music, tonality, volume, and likes to determine whether it will play on the earpiece or whether it will be a wider circle of listeners through the sound.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23050	The word is by MP Zoran Angelkovic, the mandated representative of the SPS parliamentary group on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23051	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Vice President, and otherwise, this way of picking up Serbia's pre-payments in fact for broadcasting, as well as fees for other broadcasters, independent of the civil sector, introduces something contrary to the Constitution that guarantees equality for all. On the other hand, the federal company law says all businesses must have the same status and insist on the equality of the economy. There is no same status as Serbia's broadcasting and some radio station in Piroth, or Tutin. They don't have the same status of rejuvenation. That radio or television station in Tutin has to pay compensation, and a citizen who listens to that station 90% of the time has to pay even more for the broadcasting subscription. Let's leave it that way and it must, and that's the way it should be, but then it's logical that this second and third members are deleted, and that the entire income is, although you'll say it's been destroyed by NATO, but we'll come to that point, the agency's income; then it can say, because that's equal income, 95% of the revenue from the subscription goes to Serbian broadcasting, and 5% goes to the agency's functioning. This would ensure the constitutionality of this law, that it is in line with the federal law of companies and equalisation, and would also ensure that it has the revenues and expenditures that come from Serbian citizens, related to the subscription. It stimulates Serbia's broadcasting or public service because it is most interested in it, but does not harm other broadcasters. Therefore, this link, in any sense, towards the Government, in terms of the addition of funds or the confiscation of funds, does not deprive it of sovereignty and brings all broadcasters into an unequal position in relation to public service and civil service.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23052	No more reported word after this amendment. The 36th Amendment was submitted by MP Velimir Simonovic. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here's a word from MP Velimir Simonovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23053	Ladies and gentlemen, Article 36 refers to the public work of the agency. It is very modestly formulated, only a brief sentence -- the agency publishes an annual report on its work, in a manner established by the agency's statute. It's nothing. I've suggested three more bets in this article. Article 2 would read, "All meetings of the agency must be public." Item 3 would read: "To this end, the agency is obliged to publish the time and place of all sessions at least 15 days in advance, in at least three daily newspapers, as well as on the programme of state television." Article 4 would read: "All decisions taken by the Agency at the sitting, whose sitting has not been announced in advance, in accordance with Article 3, must be considered void." If this amendment is not accepted, then the public service provision remains only declarative.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23054	Thank you. The word is made by MP Vojislav Seselj, president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23055	Ladies and gentlemen, the Serbian Radical Party supports the amendment of MP Velimir Simonovic, because as the public of work is here in law, it is shown that there is no public work at all. The Agency is obliged to publish an annual report on its work in a manner established by the statute; therefore, to publish a report rather than submit a report to someone (the National Assembly - which would be a natural, best solution); but only to publish a report. What does it mean to publish? Deliver it to the media, about, or she herself funds the publication in some newspapers and nothing else. It would be very important for the agency's meetings to be public. That's what the amendment pleads for, which means the public is present. Maybe not all the citizens who want to, but at least then the journalists of all the media who want to. Or members of parliament, representatives of parliamentary groups. How to secure the public work? You don't provide it at all. The public does not have an annual release of the report. Absolutely unpublished work. How to criticise the Agency's work if there is no public work; if no one attends the meetings of the Agency's council? You don't think the Agency's advice should be an organ that's not subject to any criticism. We're going to criticize him every day. Every day, whatever we see bad in the field of raidody, we're going to name your members of the agency's council, because in advance, the public needs to know that they will be yours alone. Furthermore, the agency would be obliged, and we support it, if it were to schedule the sessions in advance, to set a term that was sufficient for anyone who wanted, who was eventually authorized, to attend the session and thus provide the public. And, of course, all decisions that would be made in secret would have to be void. You, of the agency's advice, by this concept and by these provisions, make one of your own Masonic lodges. They are only dedicated there in a way that no one who opposes authority can influence. The parliamentary minority, the opposition has no influence on the choice of members of the agency's council. They are chosen exclusively by the will of the majority. There's no public record of their work. They don't account for their work. They resemble a single Masonic line, yet conspiracies to hold sessions, conspiracitatively to make decisions, to their minutes may only be able to bring the court into action according to individual solutions, because the court is not competent to deal with their overall work, their policy, etc. The court is in charge of individual cases to rule...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23056	I'm warning you, time's over.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23057	I'm finishing - whether they've taken someone's frequency permanently or temporarily.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23058	People's MP, please, really, since you had over 70 calls yesterday, and I see that today you intend to call often, not once did you respect the time. I've had to warn you every time for time's over. I won't tolerate it anymore. Please, the amendment promoter can honor the allowed time, and you can't. It's really... Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23059	According to an appropriate member of the Rules of Procedure, you are obliged to warn me when the time is up, and I am not obliged to monitor.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23060	I am obliged to warn you and give you a warning next time. I'm warning you, I'm not gonna tolerate this anymore, so right after the warning, I'm giving you a sanction. Is anyone else answering for word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 39 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here's a word from MP Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23061	You allow yourself to criticise a people's MP who speaks 70 times, instead of commending such a people's MP. It's something illegal when it comes to the president of the National Assembly. By amendment to Article 39, I request that paragraph 3 be deleted, which says that the permit to broadcast the programme is determined by programme and technical standards for the production and broadcasting of radio and television programmes. You know what, these technical standards have to be general for everyone. If they are general for all, then everyone is informed of that standard and then the permit should only say that the emitter is obliged to respect there, there and that provision that is written there and there. It'll probably be some sublegal act, some agency advice rules, not every permit to keep it all going. That's ridiculous. It is as if, in each individual solution, the authority of the state administration would prescribe the entire legal text to which it is called. You can nod with your head all you want, but from the legal point of view, that means it. You have here predicted that the solution contains software and technical standards for production and broadcasting. That can't allow it to contain. First, because it's too extensive. Your licenses may be 10, 20, 50 or 100 pages. These standards must be specified by one sublegal general act of the Agency. That's extensive. That technique is very complicated. These standards will cover national, regional, local frequencies and what it all means - from devices that broadcast the programme, from their voltage, from their strength, etc. That can't all contain one permit. Or that permit, as an individual administrative act, is too bulky. It is right to make sure that individual administrative acts are simple, short. It is desirable to be on the one side, with an explanation; it is considered to be at most two or three sides. As you imagined, it doesn't exist anywhere in administrative law. Legal acts, individual legal acts, such as these permits issued by the Agency's council, must follow those general rules of administrative law in all things, which means that they will have to write those acts to someone who is an expert lawyer; and can't have a legal act containing what you want it to contain, if it can't fit into an individual legal norm.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23062	Do you use the next three minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23063	Yeah. So this provision here is pointless and therefore it should be deleted, especially because there is a danger that one permit contains one element and another permission of another element. Therefore, the licences should vary by three basics, i.e. by one single basis in three categories, whether they are national frequencies, regional or local. By no other means should these permits differ. In this way, this standard of heading 3 implies the possibility that for a local frequency one permit contains one element and another permit of the other element, that neither the users are even. In national frequencies too - that one has one element in the permit, the other has other elements in the permit. When it leaves the freedom of one who adopts an individual legal act, then these abuses are very possible and by their nature can be disastrous by the consequences they cause. These rules should be general, that all the elements of the national frequency permit are always known, and the national frequency permit may be on one side or two; which all the elements contain a regional frequency permit, so it can also be reduced to side-by-side, can be even on a special form; what it contains, which the elements contain a local frequency permit, very clearly and for all the exact same. In this case, unless it's exactly the same, if there's no general normative, we come into a situation, in addition to all these big, huge agency advice to be given to them in practice to mix, that only then cause legal inequality, so that each license will be individually treated, individually formulated. On the other hand, don't forget that then it's a very difficult job, legally-technically, for the administration of the Agency's council, that every permit is specifically understood and contained elements, and that someone decides which elements it will be. I guess the first job waiting for the agency's advice to formulate it, it might take another law to formulate it, because it's a very serious issue, and when that general legal act is passed, any law, any rule...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23064	Seven minutes, I'm warning you of time-limiting overruns.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23065	Okay, I'm done.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23066	Allow me, since you said to publicly commend you, indeed over 70 announcements, and with joint efforts we managed to really stick to the topic of the agenda, yet to manage to stick to the time allowed and we succeeded. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) At the session of the Legislative Committee, MP Velimir Simonovic withdrew the amendment that he submitted to Article 40. National MPs Rajko Baralic, Branko Ružic, Joca Arsic and Radojko Petrovic submitted together to the 41st amendment. Does a representative of the applicants of the amendment want a word? There's a word from MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23067	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, respected journalists, Article 41, second position, we have suggested that it be deleted, because we do not think that the procedure for determining the origin of the founding capital is rationally resolved when it comes to foreign legal or physical persons. The position proposed by the legislator reads: "A domestic legal entity in which the founders of a foreign legal entity are registered in countries where, under the internal rules of those countries, it is not permitted or impossible to determine the origin of the founding capital, cannot participate in a public competition for the authorisation to issue the programme". What is the problem here -- a large number of radios and TV stations in Serbia are practically formed with foreign capital, and this is not registered that way. I'll give a few concrete examples - in 1996, when so-called The association of independent and free towns of Serbia, foreign ambassadors in our country, including the Czech Republic's then ambassador, Mr. Ivan Bushnjak, wore diplomatic radio-television equipment across Serbia. Such equipment is, for example, an example. Got Radio "Ozon" in Cačka, Radio Majdanpek, and another 37 radios and TV stations in Serbia. As a rule, they gave coded drawings to re-emission only certain radio stations, most often "Free Europe", or Radio "Dairy Great". Besides, they're from Segedin from 1996 to October 5th, when you made that so-called. The revolution, a huge financial resource channeled to radio and TV stations in Serbia, which were tasked with bickering public opinion in Serbia. Huge financial resources have entered these cells and, objectively, that capital is now more than majority in some of these cells. What's important here -- if this were to apply, we'd be in a very delicate situation, for example. B 92, Studio B, and some other radios and TV stations in the country. Here, on the one hand, they are proposed to get a national frequency, and on the other hand we know for sure, and we can prove that, how they got the equipment. Civilian sector - we, like you, know that a large number of radios and TV stations are practically under the control of the so-called "supervised". Civil sector. We need to delete this member here, so we don't at least make a circus about this, because we all know what this is all about. Let the radio and TV stations register according to the law that you will adopt and let them normally continue to follow the rules that this law prescribes, but if this member remains, and we do so, they give us a political space for future criticism of this attitude, and these cells do not respond.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23068	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? There's a word from MP Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23069	Ladies and gentlemen, the SRS supports this amendment. First, because the old communist way of determining the origin of capital is that the one who makes the determination of origin always abuses his role. It only determines that for some, and there are other laws that regulate the obligation to pay taxes, the obligation to pay customs duties. And if they are consistently respected, then there is no need for the origin to be determined. But there is an obsolescence. If someone doesn't pay customs, after a while, if the court doesn't go to court, he's out of his league. If a taxable person is a taxpayer after a certain time, his tax liability is outdated, if the competent state authority does not impose on him the amount declared tax, as its obligation. It's pointless here now to investigate the origin of the property, especially knowing that you will be very selective in it. You have the property of good origin if it comes from foreign diplomatic headquarters, from foreign spy agencies; if it comes from another source, it's suspicious. We all know in this country that Zeljko Mitrovic's assets came from criminal channels, but it needs to be determined by court and taken away his property. It can be prevented from getting the frequency, because it has previously had so many privileges that other potential users of the frequency cannot possibly be equal from that aspect. All those who received from abroad; I remember the time when Captain Dragan's gang took the equipment of Studio B on their way from Belgrade to Subotica, but you used the same Captain Dragan and his gang to conquer the Federal Customs Administration. So someone's a criminal when he's against you, and he does crimes, and when he commits crimes, and it's for you, then he can be tolerated. This must be deleted from practice. It wasn't good before, but before, the government could determine anything that entered the country illegally from that equipment. The government tolerated it because some people at the top of the government felt that it was not enough for them to be brought down by power. Now they regret it, but it's their business. This is where it's supposed to be done. You can't always investigate the origin of the property, if you don't have evidence that it's a crime; someone has equipment, someone's got equipment from foreign embassies, someone's got another way from abroad, it's pointless to investigate it now. You know, if someone abroad isn't going to prosecute that capital owner for a felony, why would you now refuse him here to invest? Do you think we're going to invest clean money? Can money be clean at all? Do you think there's one rich man in the world who's made a fortune in a fair way; from Rockefeller there's not one left, all hands are dirty with blood, kidnapping, robbery, crime, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23070	I warn you of the time allowed and the subject, and the insults you make.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23071	What insult?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23072	What you're saying is that every rich man is a criminal.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23073	Don't make any insults, I didn't insult anyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23074	The word is from MP Zoran Angelkovic, the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23075	Ladies and gentlemen, in essence of the law, from the beginning we've been talking about it, there must be one continuity of equality. If we already want equality in the origin of the property when it comes to broadcasting, then it must be implemented consistently. Before the start of NATO bombing here, only about 50 drawings were distributed and each of them cost $5,700, divided into hands; some ambassadors shared it in their hands, precisely from these NATO countries that bombed us. It would be good now if this agency asked these NATO countries to donate to Serbia, to RTS, to restore at least, and this should be their first task; and if we want to say this, then all radio and television stations that have received equipment and technology from the same NATO countries should be on the same principle, so too should they be banned from broadcasting the programme. If we don't, and of course we won't, then we don't have to keep an eye on whether or not there's majority capital from abroad. It's objectively now with these so-called so-called. yesterday's media (when I say yesterday's, I think by October 2000), which are called abroad as independent, we have mostly equipment that was obtained by a sack of steam that was brought to these television and radio stations or technology that was given or given as a donor with an obligation to re-emission "Free Europe", "Dece Vel" etc. Therefore, if that is the case, then the origin of the property, conditionally said, is illegal, is not known from where it came from; then there is also foreign capital, then both those radio and television stations cannot participate in it. But if we want to draw a line, then we draw a line and we don't need to introduce a double system when it comes to origin and majority ownership.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23076	Does anyone else sign up for a word? Yeah. ) The word has a representative of the promoter, Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Zarko Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23077	I have to say that having a radio television frequency, that is, the broadcasting license we're talking about right now, especially national, is not the same as having a company that can produce something. It's too important for this country -- who can get a national frequency, television; I hope the honourable MPs at least agree with me on this. Therefore, this is a minimum obligation to the standards of Europe; given the enormous importance of this area, we cannot allow at some point the one who will receive the permission to broadcast the programme, someone we do not know at all, and we do not know who will essentially be the owner and financially, in a material sense. This is otherwise foreseen by the regulations of virtually all the countries of Europe due to the enormous importance of the information area and requires a very clear insight into it. Right away, I tell you, it is not true, in most countries of Europe, that the capital being invested must be identified, a clear capital bearer must be known, and as far as these stories of anonymous capital that may be coming into some countries, perhaps even in the economy, in many European countries, the European Union's embezzlement law is very explicitly prohibited and it is strictly punishable if a breach is found in this sense, i.e. that the one declared is not the owner of capital. So this is the protection of our country's citizens and this is something crucial in the provision when it comes to having a license, because we need to know whose capital it is when someone's looking to get a permit to broadcast. Just imagine the total anonymous capital that got permission to broadcast national television! Do you understand the power of such a bearer or individual who can now get it and who can then abuse and use it, regardless of the existence of this law and its provisions and some other provisions, above all, the Information Act that has just ended.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23078	No more reported for the word on this amendment. Member of the 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) As an applicant and as head of the parliamentary group, you have six minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23079	Yeah. Ladies and gentlemen, here's your welcome to give you a commendation. This member of the law is good for you, but it has to be complemented. Now, you do me a favor and accept the supplement. Article 42 reads, or its title is - entities that cannot be licence holders. Item 1: "The licence holder of the programme cannot be: 1) an enterprise, an institution or another legal person whose founder is the Republic of Serbia or an autonomous province, except for public broadcasting service institutions". This is okay with me not putting - an institution, but institutions, so it's just one state broadcasting facility, which would mean, but it's still not mature to decide, to privatize the Radio-Television of Novi Sad, so that RTS is unique to the whole territory and only he's state. Under point 2), it is okay that these cannot be political parties, organisations or coalitions, as well as legal persons whose founder is a political party, organisation or coalition. That's quite right. But I suggest adding point 3, that founders cannot be local and regional communities (municipality, city, district), as well as legal persons whose founder is local and regional communities - municipalities, cities and districts. Why? Because in practice there are a huge number of abuses in the establishment of local radios and television stations, because the huge money allocated from the budget to the functioning of local self-government instead of for plumbing, sewerage, asphalting, etc. benefits for the formation of local televisions, in order for some political interests to be extended, individual and group, while neglecting basic obligations. There are other types of abuses, in the political sphere, in the financial sphere, often these types of radio and television stations are a means of money laundering, abuses in relation to advertising by local businesses and the like. They should be excluded for that reason. There are several reasons. Every local self-government in the nature of things tends to have its own radio and television station. Why not leave the local radio and television stations to the private sector as a whole? That's the logical thing to do. You have a multinational municipality and are in power of one nationality, and in opposition to another. It's a common case in democracy, and that's not to be surprised. You cannot oblige anyone if one national party wins the majority in the election, that there are representatives of another national group in the executive authorities. There is no such obligation in democracy. It is then merely an artificial intervention in the democratic system and a reduction of democracy, but the problem of information in that municipality can be solved by making radio-television stations completely private. I'm looking for a ban on local self-government units at all, and that's where I'd introduce the province. I suggest you forbid it. I don't forbid it yet, but I will soon. It's just an answer to your question. So it has its own inner logic. In such a sensitive sphere as broadcasting is the most necessary competition. Competition can only be established by the private sector and therefore the national frequency needs to be minimised. When it comes to national frequencies, yesterday I pleaded for a variant in which the national frequencies at the start would only get state radio stations: next to RTS, Studio B, Television Politics, JU Info. So, at the beginning, only they get, and then they make a commitment in due course to privatisation. And Studio B was once private, so some members of your coalition illegally re-enacted it to a public enterprise. Someone who's from your coalition, and you know who he is. The TV policy -- who knows what status it is now -- never knew anything before; we sent inspectors, the police didn't want to, and when I was Deputy Prime Minister, they wouldn't let them go there. The minister of his own transformation, Jorgenka Tabakovic, was trying to investigate, no one knows alive how the policy was privatised and what was hidden there. Politics is still with the majority state capital. She needs to be given this frequency. The national frequency should represent the founding capital of the state in itself, because it is a huge value, a huge wealth. JU info already acts as national television, even Yugoslav. And then privatize them all, but for the money they're done, for the real value, and not for someone who's starting to get their hands on them right now because he meets the technical requirements, because he's a favorite of the government. You know, you all fall morally if Pink TV or BK gets a national frequency, or B 92, until the state capital is clear and private. I don't care how they got the private part, who gave them the equipment. If, at the time their equipment arrived, the police and customs had not intervened, it was now declassified to investigate it in terms of equipment. It can be used as a political means of disabling and I will gladly use it as a political means of disabling, but to see what is the state there, because the state is the original founder. (President: I warn you of an excessive amount of time. The State is the original founder, and it should first define what is its own.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23080	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 43rd amendment was submitted by MP Velimir Simonovic. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? The word is made by MP Velimir Simonovic, applicant for the amendment to Article 43. Proposal for a law on broadcasting.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23081	Ladies and gentlemen, I suggest that in Article 43, in the first position, at the very beginning, the text "gets broadcast status" and replaces it with "gets radio and/or television status". The explanation is quite clear. The broadcasting facility means only the emitter, which is clearly derived from the name itself. Television and radio perform the work of production and broadcasting of the programme. For reasons of clarity, it should be noted that radio and/or television as organisations exist predominantly when they have editorial policy and financial resources, which make this policy in the form of programme production come true. Practically, the radio and/or television organisation does not have to own a reproductive technique or a emission technique, but in its activity it can use both. What characterizes radio-television as a concept is an editorial policy, for which the organization fits, rather than broadcasting the program as a technological process. These are essential things and their meaning is defined in academic and international terms. This must be understood so that the entire organisation of radio-television activity could be well set up. With misdefined terms, the whole legal structure gets a completely different meaning and can cause major confusion. The law that causes confusion is in the beginning of a bad law, and it is therefore important to accept this amendment. The words "radio and/or television" shall be placed in attitude 2 instead of the words "transmitter". In the same attitude, the text of point 1) of the "public broadcasting service establishment" is deleted and replaced by the words "state radio television".
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23082	The word is from MP Vojislav Seselj, president of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23083	On behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, I support this amendment. First, because otherwise you have a habit of introducing new words and expressions into Serbian and of holding on to that Orvelovic category of new speech. First, many of you don't know what the emitter means. The emitter in tech means something completely different than what you think. There's a part of a technique called the emitter. I'm not an expert either, and I'm not going to go in in detail, but I remember from high school that there's something in radio tech called an emitter. Furthermore, there is an old Serbian expression that could supplement the amendment, which is a radio station or a television station or a radio television station. Radio - television station is a concept that identifies someone who broadcasts radio or television. Why not keep that expression that has been in use for decades, since Radio Belgrade spoke during the Kingdom of Yugoslavia talk about a radio station. Later, a television station or a radio television station was added. Why do you enter this "emitter", which leads to confusion, is unnecessary use of foreign words, and in practice does not speak reliably about what it is. The emitter doesn't have to be just a program emitter. There are various other emitters. There are emitters of nuclear radiation; one that emits nuclear rays, of any kind, is one kind of emitter. Of course, insects can also be emitters, and they can broadcast. And not only do waves have to be broadcast, broadcast, and all kinds of other things. So it can be broadcast into space and something else that doesn't represent radio waves. Nuclear radiation is not a radio wave. The term is inappropriate. A little goodwill to accept this amendment, and the amendment comes from your MP and that's why more. I know what you hate about all amendments to the Serbian Radical Party, you are ideologically impatient, but when a well-intentioned MP proposes an amendment that amends the text, I'm surprised that at least then you don't adopt it. Now I'm done early. Keep that in mind for next time.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23084	This is the first time you've finished before. Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 43 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go. Would you like to go to the Federal Assembly for a moment?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23085	If you promise to choose me president of the Commission. I think there's already a consensus on that plan, because who better to lead it than me? I've proven to you the success of that poll committee on the murder of Pavel Bulatovic and, therefore, you have no one better for this work.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23086	Okay, I'm asking you to get back on the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23087	You're the one who opened the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23088	I was just asking if you were planning on going to the Federal Assembly today.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23089	No, I know how much you love me here, appreciate, respect, and can't wait to explain something professionally, so I'm probably not going anywhere. You'd go too easy on the other members of the law. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask that in Article 43, which refers to precisely those emitters, points 3 and 4 are deleted in point 2.). It says that the broadcaster can perform the work of production and broadcasting of radio and television as: a public broadcasting service facility, and that's fine; a commercial radio and/or television station, and that's fine. Everything else is too high. It's either state television or it's commercial radio-television stations. This is completely wrong to stay: a civil-sector radio-television station. What does the civil sector mean? You mean NGOs? Social organizations, citizens' associations? What kind of civil sector is that? Compared to who's the civil sector? Does it mean we're all the rest of the military sector? That the state authorities are the military sector, that political parties are the military sector? I recently commended you for disfellowshipping political parties, but social organisations must, too, have these so-called so-called political parties. NGOs will be excluded. Just now, he's talking about the problem of the origin of the money. The most problematic origin is the money of these NGOs. Many of them admitted to being financed from abroad, many of them receiving huge amounts of money from abroad. Now they still need to be enabled by various television stations. You see, you're coming to collegiate yourself. Their representative will be on the agency's council, and they will be able to broadcast the program. That's inadmissible. You have all the permits, though. Furthermore, it is said, radio and television stations of local or regional communities, and I just explained why local self-government would not be able to broadcast radio and television programs. That's why I'm gonna stick around here the most on this so-called question. Civil sector. I suggest you turn off the term- civil sector, and in some languages... I hope you'll be kind enough to turn it off. I didn't tell you. I know you won't. You see, that term civil sector in some language may have too much meaning. In Serbian, it cannot have too much meaning. We have a civilian who is not a soldier, or in a broader sense anyone who is not a soldier or a cop, or in an even wider sense anyone who is not uniform. So anyone who's not a soldier, a cop, a customs officer, a night watchman, etc. Everyone is, therefore, a civilian. Here the term civil sector is used as a deputy or synonym for something very beautiful in Serbian is called civil society. The concept of civil society was established in Serbian, at the time when the idea itself in the West was affirmed. What is civil society? It's a society of human freedoms, civil equality, society of democracy. Of course, this civil society also means freedom of social organisation, that the state be only the regulator of basic frameworks, and that everything else should be left to citizens, individuals and groups as a completely free commitment. It's the essence of civil society. You call it civil society, you introduce an artificially one-off term. Under civil society, you mean only NGOs. These NGOs cannot represent civil society or the civil sector. Listen, civil sector! Secondly, we have cases of people joining parallel and political parties, and social organisations and associations of citizens you call NGOs, or NGOs (en-ji-o) as Cedomir Jovanovic said yesterday. See how far this Serbian-language corruption can go. You're making a mistake in the notional and categorical apparatus. Why are you doing this? There's no need. It's enough to say here that the broadcasters of the public broadcasting service facility, as you said, even though I would change it, say the state radio and television or commercial radio or television stations. Everything else has to be purely commercial, which means that the private sector is financing, the private sector is broadcasting the programme, and the state is just prescribing to it the general conditions of this broadcast that it must respect and which it must meet. No more than that.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23090	Does anyone else sign up for a word? Here you are, MP Zoran Angelkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23091	Ladies and gentlemen, here we come to the point where just now Vice President Koraq was talking about the origin of the money, about who's investing and who can influence without us knowing who's behind the funds of a radio or television station. With this possibility that the civil sector, as it is said here, has absolute priority even in obtaining frequencies and broadcasting permits or this is how it works as so-called. a non-profit segment of radio and television stations, it is precisely an opportunity to launder money from abroad. After all, let's take now (I was talking about religious communities, etc.) to get an organization of Jehovah’s Witnesses a frequency for broadcasting programs; of course, since here it has an absolute priority for getting frequencies and broadcasting programs. Where do the money come from? Donorship? In the bag they are brought in and given for the broadcast of the program. Is there no influence? Is that where the state can influence? He can't. So how can we influence and prevent exactly that negative effect that can produce such a single cell? Let's take him to get this Wolf Radio and TV station now. Who's funding it, where's the money from? If we already want the civil sector, as you call it here, or NGOs to have the right to broadcast, let them register the company, so that the sources of income and expenditure are known; not NGOs, as you call them, in which we do not know the sources of income and expenditure, i.e. They function on the principle of donation, which means money from abroad, not from the country, because there is no objective money in the country. Secondly, what is the possibility here that the state cannot in any way influence or, better say, that they can influence the awareness of citizens, says the fact that one NGO under a new law that is likely to be adopted here in the Assembly, if we want to agree with the Council of Europe, can form two persons, possibly three. In Europe, that's the way it is. Now it's 10, so in a way these 10 citizens, 10 people can control or influence some policy of that NGO. By tomorrow, when we adopt the law here in the Republic Parliament or in the Federal Parliament (where you want it to be, but we want to bring them into line with Europe), it will be two people who form an NGO. The two persons do not have any control and obligation towards the state to pay the frequency, to pay for the broadcasting of the programme and do not have a practical obligation or a dysfunction or agency to control them in what way they will function. We don't think we're talking about that third segment, the inequality, that they don't have any obligation to pay for it. Therefore, the most honest thing is that this segment is also deleted, and those NGOs and religious communities, if they want to have a radio and television station, should form an enterprise, where the state can control how the company works.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23092	No more reported for the word on this amendment. The 47th amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23093	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I submit an amendment to Article 47(2). So what you're expecting here is that the percent of 90 is replaced by 75. Here's the explanation. In fact, it's only about the production technique of the program, that is, its broadcast. During NATO aggression, all broadcasts of radio-television systems were destroyed. This is especially visible in the TV stations of TV Novi Sad and TV Belgrade. TV Novi Sad only has damage to the show system over $60 million, and the total damage is over $100 million. So, you won't be able to renovate a single so huge machine that is needed in these areas. TV Novi Sad is forced to use low-power transmitters and is very difficult to meet this legislation, this legal obligation to use a quality signal to cover 90% of the population in the desired service zone. So that's where the need arises for a percent of 90 to be replaced by a percentage of 75, so that Radio - TV Novi Sad and Radio - TV Belgrade can meet the full legal obligation imposed on them by the Law on Broadcasting.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23094	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? The word has been given by MP Vojislav Seselj, as president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23095	I don't think this amendment should be accepted for two reasons. The first is the principle of nature, because it is not yet complete, it is not yet clear what the fate of New Sad television will be. Secondly, conditions must be equal for all and the principle must be implemented consistently in practice. There may be someone else, if the province is already envisaged as the territorial scope of broadcasting, as I would call it, other classes, other categories, etc., something that is lower than the national frequency, and right up to that; someone who will offer 100 percent coverage may come forward. In Vojvodina, the easiest to achieve is the highest percentage of coverage of the area. There are much more complications in Serbia's interior. That's why I don't think this amendment should be accepted. As for TV Novi Sad, my opinion is that she needs to get the frequency, and right after that to be sold to public auctions. It can be sold to one person, legally or physically, and can be sold to citizens, action by action, if a real total price is established, so that citizens who want to be owners buy, and that it is equal purchase for cash or for old foreign currency savings. In any case, New-US television would have to be private, because it simply cannot survive as state television in the present conditions. If it separates itself from Serbia's state television, in particular, it will not have enough sources of funding for what its ambitions are to achieve. Secondly, it is hardly possible to withstand the competition of a state television network in which the huge amount of money you have imposed on citizens as a new tax. You used to struggle bitterly against it, so you've abolished it for two years, and now you're rebuilding the willy again, seven times the actual amount compared to the previous one. So, as far as New Sad television is concerned, the issue should be predefined clearly, and I plead that the definition implies privatisation above all. It would be a sin to abolish New Sad TV, as it exists for decades, since it does have a pretty good programme, most often a much better quality program than RTS, than a Belgrade RTS study, is much more open to the opposition than the RTS in Belgrade, it is much more objective to place information. So many commendations from RTS in Belgrade, which does not mean that it is perfect. It could be used to make objections, but her future is privatized.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23096	The word is by MP Zoran Angelkovic, the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23097	Ladies and gentlemen, if we are introducing a subscription to Serbian citizens to pay for Serbia's broadcasting, then it is unacceptable that no part of Serbia's territory has these two state television programmes. This is not about technical inability, and it is not about major technical investments to cover Serbia's territory. The bigger problem is the central itself, only the broadcasting of the programme, the investment in the security of the programme's broadcasting technique, but the very emission of the techniques that should cover that territory, especially when it comes to the Vojvodina area. When it comes to the region of Vojvodina, those who understand the area know that there are enough five points, five transmitters that would cover five territories, most of all, to cover the entire territory of Vojvodina. There is one part, the empty space of Backa Topola and Backa Palanka, which especially must be covered by a transmitter, and most of the territory of Vojvodina, because of the configuration, can be covered with a good transmitter, even a transmitter from Fruska up, not to mention other territories. According to this, it is the easiest to cover the territory of Vojvodina. That's one thing. The second thing, when it comes to the most endangered TV by Novi Sad -- that the Socialists remained in power for another year, as they restored bridges, roads and railways, would have restored the TV of Novi Sad, for sure. She'd be better than she was before the NATO bombing. Since you're good friends with those who bombed us, it would be good to finally have that 40 billion dollars, how much suoni did direct damage, ask you at last not to withdraw these charges before the International Court in The Hague and collect that damage. If you don't want to collect the damage, let them give so much money that this television is restored, because before you came to power, you said that, as they say, the trucks of money will arrive in our country to boost the economy, not just to restore it. That is why I propose not to accept it, but to commit to covering the entire territory of Vojvodina and Serbia with Serbian broadcasting by the end of the year.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23098	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) At the meeting of the Committee on Culture and Information, MP Branislav Grubaski withdrew the amendment submitted to Article 47. National MPs Rajko Baralic, Branko Ružic, Joca Arsic and Radojko Petrovic submitted together to the 48th amendment. Does a representative of the applicants of the amendment want a word? The word is from MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23099	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, Article 48, his second position, in our opinion, should be complemented by the sentence "taking care of the proper distribution of use". Why? Article 47 defines what the service zone is and says it can be the territory of the Republic, the province, the district or local self-government. I hope the legislator understood well what problems could arise if in a small space, which could be the territory of local self-government, three broadcasters on the same frequency in the same service zone are broadcasting the program. The second position of Article 48 is not precise enough to define how the broadcasters coordinate the time of use and anything else necessary for the smooth broadcast of the programme. Of course, there is a reason in point 3 that the regulatory body gives certain conditions, that a contract is concluded. However, we have experience and now that a large number of radio stations operate in a small space and that a number of these cells are objectively having problems because some emitters are stronger by signal or by other incorrect technical or other actions preventing competition from broadcasting on equal terms. That's why I think accepting our amendment, the SPS amendment, would help to make this more specific. Also, I think it's not precisely defined how in which way the position of the emitter is determined relative to the number of inhabitants and territory. There's experience, let's say, in Austria, where the emitter can get a frequency permit if it covers a territory where about a million and a half viewers or listeners live in, limiting the strength of the transmitters. None of it's in this law. So it may happen that someone gets the right to broadcast a radio-television program in the same area of service, on the same frequency, with a vast majority of transmitters and objectively endangers competition broadcasters, which would neither be within the meaning of the law that you have proposed, nor in the interest of the citizens of our republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23100	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Rajko Baralić, Branko Ružić, Joca Arsic and Radojko Petrovic submitted the 49th amendment. Does the amendment's representative want to talk about this amendment? Here you are, MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23101	Article 49 discusses the procedure for issuing licences and public competition. On behalf of the SPS with a group of MPs, I have submitted an amendment relating to the second position of this member: "The public competition must be called", and we are now asking to add here "once a year". For what? Because advertising, in a public competition, does not require all free frequencies, which is likely not to be the case, but if someone meets certain conditions in the meantime and has the ambition to deal with this business or anything else in this area, it should not be left to the will or the free assessment of the agency, or this advice, but the law should ensure that at least once a year, if there are free frequencies, they should be advertised and the interested compete. I think that would be a correct solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23102	Anybody else answer for a word? Here's a word from the Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Zarko Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23103	I thank you, President, honourable Members of Parliament, this would be appropriate if it did not stand here, I will read the second point: "The public competition is mandatory when, on the basis of the broadcasting plan, there are opportunities to issue new broadcasting permits." Which means that the competition can be called twice a month, even once a week, depending on whether a free frequency occurred. But it's true, if that's the case, if it doesn't say, the public competition is mandatory... So the agency can't beat it, it can call out when the frequencies build up, when she likes it. The moment the frequencies are released, she has to call a contest. Right now, let me say it could be once every two years, but also once a week. Depends on how much frequency it has.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23104	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 52nd amendment were submitted by MPs Toma Busetic, Joca Arsic, Milos Nesovic and Sreten Mitrovic. Does a representative of the applicants of the amendment want a word? Here's a word from MP Joca Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23105	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the SPS parliamentary group, i.e. a group of MPs, submitted an amendment to Article 52 of the proposed law, which provided for the erasure of point 5) of Article 52, which reads that, with the application for public competition, it is necessary to submit: evidence of the registration of the applicant for the performance of the production and broadcasting of the radio and television programme; evidence of compliance with the conditions laid down in Article 50(1). 2) and 3) of this law, which is - technical, organisational and programming conditions for the production and transmission of applications that the applicant should fulfil, and the conditions laid down by a special law governing the area of telecommunications and regulations adopted on the basis of it, which the applicant should meet for the authorisation of a broadcasting station; and also - documentation relating to the proposed programme concept; and, in addition, the organisational - technical concept and the structure of staff; and in point 5) which we contest - the projection of planned annual incomes and expenditure, with their specification and data on the financial potential of the applicant of the application, and - if the applicant of the application and at the time of application is broadcast by the radio and/or television programme, and the financial report together with the balance sheet of the situation and the success of the last financial year in which the application is submitted to the public competition; and the non-reports in the context of the authentic application of the documents; We believe that this point 5 is too high) around the balance sheet and annual income and expenditure, because if this should be one of the conditions for obtaining frequencies, i.e. obtaining work permits, this way is excessive, because all of this is regulated by specific regulations - the way in which the financial operations, the balance of success and the property of this applicant requires. This can lead to, if it serves as a criterion, in different positions, because whoever is seriously involved in the production of the program, who is involved in investing in quality and good programs, can have a lower balance of success than the one who deals with simple transmission, using other people's programs, making less quality programs. In this way, if this is one of the conditions and criteria for granting permits, we will not have equal observation, and I think it is neither decisive nor important that this balance of success and what falls within the sphere of other laws be found in this article as point 5), so we have suggested that we delete this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23106	Thank you. The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj called for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23107	I'm so kind and well-intentioned that I've sacrificed myself and I haven't responded twice to certain amendments, and you don't know how to appreciate it. You see, this amendment makes sense because it insists on dropping point 5, which says the applicant is obliged to deliver and - projection of planned annual income and expenditure (with their specification) and data on the financial potential of the applicant. But from this, it's not clear what's more favourable for him to prove a huge financial potential or a very small one. I closely followed the arguments about some former members of the law by Deputy Prime Minister Zarko Korać and he expressed concern about those who have enormous wealth, who could impose certain conditions on us in broadcasting, a particular policy that would conflict with national interest. Here, you have to point out what's more desirable: that someone has nothing, and they want a frequency to get something, or -- someone has a lot of it, so they want to have television out of luxury. Like Bogoljub Karic, who had a bank, various other financial institutions, and eventually wished for television, such entertainment. So what are you doing here - explain it. Secondly, if someone is looking for a frequency and is willing to pay an annual fee, that annual compensation should not be too small, small, negligible. He's not gonna play with that. He's getting the frequency, and he's in no condition to broadcast the program. Because if he doesn't broadcast the program, he's gonna lose the frequency after a while. So there's no need to insist on this at all. It would be good for you to accept this amendment and delete point 5) So if he is able to pay the frequency, it is more desirable for you to pay the frequency, not to broadcast the program, so you will be able to assign someone else, so you will have more income, and in this case it is quite unnecessary. Second of all, how can he advance you this financial plan and specification? Maybe he's got $100 or $200,000 at his disposal, buy a technique out of it, and he's just planning on earning his own program, trying. I know in the beginning that rarely anyone can make money. So far, television has brought no money to anyone. All those who formed private television or had extra money, so they wanted that expensive toy to afford, or had some political reasons to do so. No one's been able to make a profit by broadcasting so far, no one. (Glass: Željko Mitrovic. ) E, Željko Mitrovic illegally acquired the money in another way, so he only washed it through his TV program.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23108	The president of the DOS parliamentary group, MP Cedomir Jovanovic, spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23109	Dear Mrs. Micic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is very important this point 5) and it cannot be deleted. It reminds you very clearly that the obligation to provide projections of planned annual incomes and expenditures, with specifications, and data on the financial potential of applicants of applications, is very clear. Why does it matter - it's important because of article 53. I remind you, we have done this several times, and a representative of the legislators, and we as representatives of the DOS parliamentary group, to view the law as a whole. In fact, Article 53 determines the agency’s conduct after applications have been submitted. In point 5, this member actually sees the meaning of the existence of point 5) of a previous member, so a member who is now the subject of our debate. Because in the event that more eligible persons have reported for the use of the same radio frequency, more guarantees are given priority to those who, on the basis of the documentation submitted, provide greater guarantees that they will contribute to a more high-quality and diverse programme. Therefore, that documentation shall be given before and on the basis of the documentation provided by the Agency shall make its decision. Therefore, it is necessary, among other things, to come out with a concrete financial plan, to see if it exists, and this is a very clear point 2) of Article 50, technical, organisational and programme capacity for those applying to the frequency to fully respond to the proposition provided for by this law. We have 1,300 which worked, which TV station, but on the fingers of one hand can count those who fully respect technical standards. I'm not talking about the quality of the program, we can discuss it, but they respect technical standards, they cover the territory for which they've been authorised, they broadcast the program within the set deadline, they pay the state a fee for such a thing, that program is technically quality, so it can be accepted. That's why we need this attitude 5, and we can't give him up. I don't see that we're actually discriminating someone if they have smaller financial resources. On the contrary, it can be seen if, on the basis of smaller financial means, he carefully plans the production programme, or the broadcast programme, that he is also more capable of the job, and this is not a key category, especially if a call for Article 53 is taken, which says that when the decision is made to issue a broadcasting permit, the advice will also take into account that applicant's contribution to the application to achieve the principle of regulating relations in the field of broadcasting. So these are all very important things and it's not possible to make a serious decision if someone doesn't deliver a financial plan to you, it doesn't tell you what its technical capacities are, and it can't be done on the basis of promises and nice words, but based on documentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23110	People's MP Zoran Angelkovic came to the floor.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23111	Ladies and gentlemen, this is not about technical standards, because, when it comes to technical standards, of course, it involves the obligation to meet other conditions, for example. This is the fourth position of this Article 52. This is about projections of planned annual revenues, and that's all there is to it. By the way, I totally agree that of these 1,200 - 1,300 radios and TV stations, maybe 10% does not fully meet the requirements for technical broadcasting of the programme, and that only says what state Serbia's broadcasting is currently in. When I talk about Serbia's broadcasting, I don't mean this institution that's going to be formed, but in principle all radio and TV stations, and most of you who have participated in various shows know that, besides those financed from abroad, they don't have any major technical achievements, in a poor state or, better say, in a poor financial state. Most radios and TV stations throughout Serbia, except for one television station and perhaps several radio stations, are literally on the verge of economic existence. This isn't about it, this is about the possibility of abuse of this attitude, whether someone wants to prove that someone has millions, from some other sources, so he can have, and that whoever lives on the edge of existence to function in all domains, both technical and organisational and programming, can't, because it's on the edge of some economic existence. Therefore, if this member, i.e. This position of this member can be misused in this way, then it is better to delete it, and the agency can ask another state authority, such as the financial police or other state authorities, to establish exactly the financial situation of the company they are applying for the frequency itself. Therefore, it is necessary to separate the whole thing. After all, if we want to build up what needs to be reported, then it can be said that we should also report "Strategic Marketing" which is the most visible and the most heard, and that is likely from conditions, because it should be a condition for someone to listen and watch, not just broadcast.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23112	The word is made by MP Ivan Andric, president of the Committee on Culture and Information.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23113	The Committee has rejected this amendment, because we think that a business plan, which is meant by this attitude, is necessary in order for the agency to gain insight into how serious it is from radio and radio and TV stations in the intention it intends to meet. Simply, the frequency, as we've heard so many times so far, is public good, it's a limited resource and it has to be given to whoever's going to use it in the best way possible. Because we were sure that the business plan was one of the performance indicators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23114	Members of the 53rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Toma Busetic, Joca Arsic, Milos Nesovic and Sreten Mitrovic. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? The People's Messenger Tom Bushetić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23115	Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, a group of MPs submitted an amendment to Article 53; it is about eradicating part of the text saying "the council will take account of the applicant's contribution to the development of democratic relations when making a decision on the issue of the programme's broadcasting license". We believe that in this way, moral-political similarity is introduced to a small door, and it is quite certain that the advice of the agency, without some objective criteria, will appreciate who is like it and who can get permission. On the other hand, what particularly bothers us, regarding this part of the text, refers to so-called. Democratic relations, so-called democratic processes. We don't know what they're thinking, what time they're thinking? If you're referring to the fall of 2000, you know, that's when you set fire to the Assembly, robbed Television, when you declared Kostunica president, and Kostunica was not elected, the second round had to be. So there were no democratic processes. Or, after October 5, what kind of democratic processes were they? You've passed laws that were in the function of taxation, taxes, taxes.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23116	I warn you not to stick to the subject of the agenda, in the context of the draft law on broadcasting.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23117	But has this been withdrawn, changed, please? So there are no democratic processes, simply, this part of the text should be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23118	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? Yeah. ) National MP Vojislav Seselj, president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23119	Ladies and gentlemen, the SRS is proposing to accept this amendment and to exclude from the text a provision saying: "If the applicant also broadcasts a radio and/or television programme at the time of the public competition, the advice will also take into account this applicant's contribution to the development of democratic relations and pluralism of opinion when making a decision to issue the programme." You're introducing a pure ideological criterion. When was that changed? Watch out, the law stands-- the advice will... Then why did you put that amendment on the agenda? Wait, I got it official. What? Slowly, the service delivered this amendment and I officially received it, and no one said the amendment was invalid, nor did you warn, as president of the National Assembly. If that's the amendment that applies to the old text, then you had to pull it out of the procedure, you had to let us know. Yesterday, you refused one of my amendments, completely without reason, although it was quite appropriate to the legal text, and now you're giving us in the procedure of amendments that no longer apply to the text of the law. The amendment was meaningful, but if your holding a session is meaningful, that's another question. In the new position of Article 5, there is no such provision, but you gave it to us in the procedure. Is the amendment in the procedure? I support it, and what you will then adopt in the final version is your business, but the key question is what is the amendment to the procedure, and it has lost its meaning because in the meantime you have changed the text of the law. I want to explain why I support the amendment and don't interrupt me. The criterion that you tried to introduce, so you gave up on it, is just ideological, because one of you probably remembered that then the first state television couldn't get the frequency, because there's no pluralism there. On national television, only DOS leaders can be watched in the program and, possibly, someone who plays the opposition, and you can currently use it for each other's accounts, as you use some master here or a professor for kicking a leg in the head.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23120	Does anyone else sign up for a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Ivan Andric, president of the Committee on Culture and Information.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23121	Ms. Micic, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, just to clarify this matter - that provision was in the draft law that was withdrawn; the provision that is now in this bill, which everyone has received, reads: "The advice will also take into account the contribution of this applicant to the application of the principle of regulating relations in the field of broadcasting, as set out in Article 3 of this Law, in the previous period of broadcasting". Article 3 of this Act prescribes general principles in the field of broadcasting. So this is in the new bill because we have to prescribe a certain treatment not only for this time when licenses are granted, not only for the first frequency distribution, but for each of the following. That is what the general principles of the law, which is in the first article, or third, serve, I apologize.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23122	People's MP Zoran Angelkovic, the mandated representative of the SPS parliamentary group, appeared on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23123	Just to be clear, we have here a review of the amendments and in this review of the amendments to Article 53 says - the amendment submitted jointly by the MPs Toma Busetic, Joca Arsic, Milos Nesovic and Sreten Mitrovica; and we have one text, is this amendment accepted in the procedure, so whether it is an integral part of the law or not? If it's accepted in the procedure, then it means we shouldn't consider it, then I'm giving up the discussion, and if it isn't, we can talk. If not accepted, then it is an integral part of the text. Please, let me get this straight first.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23124	There are no more reports of this amendment. The 56th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milos Nesovic, Joca Arsic and Milan Stankovic. Does a representative of the applicants of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Milan Stankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23125	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 56. It's a bill of law. This Member of the Law provides for the start of programme broadcasting; it is said in Article 56 that the broadcaster is obliged to start broadcasting the programme no later than 60 days from the date of receipt of the programme authorisation, with the fact that it cannot begin broadcasting the programme before it fulfils the conditions for the start of work of that station prescribed by a special law governing the area of telecommunications. We believe that the deadline of 60 days is too short, or too little time has been given to a potential broadcaster to obtain all the necessary permits. So, he needs to build a room first or buy a room from where the program is to be broadcast; then, to provide urban conditions, PTT conditions, electricity consent, building permit, means to build an object, to carry out technical reception and to get a useful permit. To ensure all of this, 60 days is too short. We proposed the amendment to be 270 days, or nine months. We think this time is appropriate, so at least it's necessary to do it all and to get someone started on the program broadcast. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23126	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 56 of the amendment was submitted by MP Velimir Simonovic. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23127	Ladies and gentlemen, I also believe that 60 days is too small a time period and that it favors only those who already have finished radio television. I suggest that it be up to six months, so at the beginning of this law, to be applied, everyone has equal terms. Sixty days is short because these new ones won't be able to make it, we'll just favor those who already have their own radio -- TVs are over.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23128	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? Yeah. ) The word is held by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the DOS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23129	Ms. Micic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, given that Professor Simonovic is an MP for our parliamentary group, I am obliged to explain our position. It is not only 60 days, it is in a formal sense 60 days from the granting of licences, but it is understood that one who requests the right to make a frequency available from the advice of the Republic Broadcasting Agency must meet at that time a whole series of technical preconditions in order to start broadcasting that programme and we believe that 60 days from granting the permit is reasonable enough for it to start exploiting that frequency. Otherwise, it would happen that someone has the right not to use it, while at the same time denying it to others who have the ambition to be programme broadcasters in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. So it's not just 60 days. Practically, the process was initiated when the law on broadcasting was adopted and the process of establishing a republican broadcasting agency, the Republic Council of the Broadcasting Agency, the call for competitions, etc. began; it is much more than 60 days.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23130	National MP Zoran Angelkovic, the mandated representative of the SPS parliamentary group, appeared on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23131	Ladies and gentlemen, this is about a whole series of members who regulate it, if I may say so, because that's where it's said, when it comes to reporting, that it has to be technically capable of broadcasting the program, and that means it has to have a radio station. This means that, in fact, before the application is filed, if the right radio station, tens of thousands of euros or if the right television station should invest hundreds of thousands of euros in order to even file a report and come into that position so that it can broadcast the programme. If someone throws away several hundred thousand euros, then doesn't get a frequency and a license to broadcast the program, who's going to do it? No one will. If it is not already in advance and does not come from it, it starts from the programming scheme, from the ability it proves previously in the financial sense, etc. (All that it says in article 52, what it takes to apply for a public competition), then it's a little 60 days for him to get that technique at all, to mount it and set it up. After all, most of this technique, for example, radio - television transmitters, is a fact that imports are imported from abroad and therefore, 60 days to import, install and start working is a deadline that is almost impossible to meet.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23132	No more reported for the word on this amendment. As part of the 59th amendment, MP Živodarka Dacin and MPs Ljubomir Mucic and Rade Bajic submitted together. The word has a folk emissary of the Life-giving Dacin.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23133	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament, on behalf of a group of Socialist Party Members of Serbia, I am the signator of the amendment to Article 59(1), which reads: "The permit to broadcast radio and/or television programmes is issued for an eight-year period". Our proposal for a change in this article is to stand for ten years. I'm going to try to give some three objective reasons, which I think are enough to accept this amendment, especially if it's not crucial, it's not systematic, nothing would violate the meaning of a complete draft law on broadcasting. First, we have stated here that, in this way, we would practically comply with the current federal Law on Liaison Systems; simply, as long as there is a state as it exists, let's align these laws and instead of eight years it's ten years. Secondly, the more important I think it is, there's been a lot of controversy here about it, obviously not the minor funds needed to invest in a radio or television station. For the seriousness of all those who go into such a business, let's let it be this more favourable period of ten years, so that there's a chance in some way to execute and recover those funds, regardless of what we said with little exceptions, rarely anyone has the right profit. In particular, given that it is said in Section 2 that this authorisation may, at the request of the applicant, be issued for a shorter period of time, I really do not see that this could be an obstacle to the adoption of this amendment. The third thing I would say is that it's probably ten years a real and rational period in which technical and technological improvement occurs and in the broadcasting system and that it's simply a normal time, so that whoever wants to extend and perfect himself in this work makes his strategy and can continue to exist. In the name of all that, I ask you to remember the explanation for this amendment, so when it comes to voting day to adopt it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23134	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 59 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23135	Ladies and gentlemen, with my amendment, I ask only to change the position of Article 1 59, which says that a permit to broadcast a radio and television program is issued for an eight-year period. I'm asking it to be for a ten-year period. I think it's supposed to be something longer, because whoever's doing radio or television broadcasting has to invest big money right away at the start of a variety of technical means, and the question is, in eight years' time, is the question of whether and in ten years' time, he can get paid just the capital he invested, can he recover what he's invested. It's hardly possible. I don't think he can, whatever that commercial program is. I told you about Pink TV that the essence wasn't because of the broadcast program, but in some other things; and secondly, he had a monopoly. He's got a completely illegal frequency. When no one could get the frequency, he got it. He didn't even get it, he broadcast the program for a long time without a frequency. It was only 1999 or 2000 that he got his first official papers, and he used to work all wild. You defend him, he's fine. The more you defend him, the more arguments it will be for the shift of power to change these things. It's not that. Few who can make a profit, and therefore this time period should be longer. If he meets all other legal criteria in ten years, then why bother him, why send him back to the competition if he does not break the law on objectivity. Because if this principle of objectivity is respected, the first state television could not meet the conditions, as it is today, while Bojana Lekic is there. But if all other legal conditions are respected, then there is no danger of a longer term. Ten years is not much longer, 25% is longer than eight years. It may be some rounded number and nothing more, but some legal certainty from that aspect is that those who invest their capital in broadcasting should have and thus facilitate their position. On the other hand, he has this federal law on broadcasting, or as he's already called, about systems of connections, which envisioned the release of frequencies for ten years. Something was also done on the plan of implementing that law, but I will agree with you that this law was not good, that many things had failed to regulate, and that some things that were regulated were not regulated in an adequate way. There's something else that's problematic here -- what you're bringing this law on the broadcasting of the Republic of Serbia before this issue is adequately resolved at the federal level.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23136	You're using the next three minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23137	Yeah. If a common state survives, it will have to be on a federal level to regulate the basics of the radio communications and broadcasting system. What's up? I don't understand, Mr. Korach, what does that mean? There's nothing yet, because that law that exists on the federal level was passed a few years ago, and this law of yours is not entirely in line with it. It's not consistent, for example, in this part. Secondly, the law provides for frequencies to be allocated at a federal level, not at a republican level. Probably a new law will predict the assignment of frequencies at a republican level, but you, like tax laws, first adopt a republican, then a federal, and it should be the other way around. It's supposed to be about making federal laws first. You've been given the consent to violate federal law. Is it? From who? From Dragisa Pesic? From the Constitutional Court? I'm interested in who gave you that consent. No one can give you consent to break federal law, nor can they give you guarantees that they will act as if the federal law does not exist. Baby Popovic can, but only non-institutionally. All the powers you've given him, you've given him extra-institutional. He doesn't have any institutional authority for what he does. You know, there have been many before you who have acted similarly, and then at least have a little regret about it. Instead of changing your behavioral style, you're trying to outdo them in that direction. That's what's wrong. Secondly, I'd be a little nasty, for example, to Pink TV, and you're not. Your problem was that it was JUL's television, and you accept its method of action, its criminal essence. Now that he's changed camp, there's no problem. Or BK TV. Why didn't you change? ) I was unable to eliminate them and was unable to impose a radical concept of regulation of the broadcasting sphere. We didn't have full power, and that was our main problem. Where we had the opportunity to influence, we regularly had a positive impact, and that's the point. We didn't want to monopolize that sphere anywhere, unlike you. That sphere used to be monopolised, and you're trying to make it even more monopolies.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23138	The word is from MP Zoran Angelkovic, the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23139	Ladies and gentlemen, there are several arguments here that this period in the first position should be 10 years. Of course, one is federal law, and the other is that so far it's been 10 years. I need another argument to add. In Article 27, when we talked about the length of the election period for members of the council, we said it was six years. Later, of course, the way the term of office ended, etc. And it is said, one third and one third after two years. In fact, after eight years, only one third of the council members will change. This means that two-thirds of the council members who previously participated in the allocation of frequencies to eight years again decide on this new frequency, whether to extend or not. If we want to even define some meaning, then it is logical that after 10 years two-thirds of the council members were replaced, which means that one third of the old council was left. It is more logical for the advice in the new composition to consider obtaining the right to broadcast in the next ten-year period. This is how it will turn out that the government that chooses the majority in the agency's council and eight years later, more specifically the same individuals that DOS has chosen in this parliament for the next eight years. This will mean that the existing advice, in fact, with a two-thirds majority, decides on 16 years of someone's right to broadcast, now after eight years again. I don't think that's even right and fair. Six is their mandate, one third changes, two years and two years, so they'll be in the same position.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23140	No more reported for the word on this amendment. Members of the 61st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Živodarka Dacin, Ljubomir Mucic and Rade Bajic. The word has the People's MP Rada Bajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23141	On behalf of the SPS, honourable MPs, on behalf of the SPS, the group of MPs submitted an amendment to Article 61, in order to delete in point 5, paragraph 1. Article 61 shall be regulated when a permit is withdrawn for the broadcasting of the programme and the reasons for it. There are 10 reasons, and it is said among other things: if the broadcaster informs the Agency itself that he will no longer broadcast; if he stated in the course of the contest the incorrect data; then, among other things, I only state some reasons, if he has unwarrantedly stopped broadcasting the programme within 30 days in continuity or with interruptions of 60 days; if, after obtaining the permit as one of the founders, a foreign legal entity appears for which in his country and by their legal norms, it is not possible to examine the origin of the founding capital. Among other things, it says, in point 5): if the emitter has not carried out a technical examination of the broadcasting station within the prescribed time limit. We ask that this point be deleted for the reason that the emitter is not at all responsible for this point, which provides for the withdrawal of the permit. Namely, the regulatory body is responsible for the screening of the broadcasting station and it is required to examine the broadcasting station. Therefore, it is unacceptable for the emitter to get hurt, to say so, and to withdraw his broadcasting permit for reasons for which he is not responsible. Other reasons are relatively acceptable for the SPS parliamentary group, except for the point where we said it was a short period of 60 days and that we were looking for 270 days to start broadcasting. The remaining points are acceptable, but this one is unacceptable. I think MPs should respect this, and I don't know if the board of directors saw it. If there is an opportunity for MPs to follow concentratedly on the day of the vote of this many amendments, I think this amendment should be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23142	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 64 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go. Are you using six minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23143	How do you know?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23144	I'm asking.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23145	Ladies and gentlemen, Article 64 refers to the termination of the permit to broadcast the programme during the time limit on which it was issued. It is said: "In the course of the period on which the programme authorisation has been issued, the permit shall cease to be valid unless the Agency has decided to extend it in accordance with Article 59 of this Act." I had an amendment to Article 59, and there I asked for this eight-year period to be extended to 10 years, and now I'm giving another additional argument, and then the agency would be able to automatically extend the deadline if the broadcaster asked for it, as you call it. If this 10-year-old period is introduced, then we should go to a new competition. Someone who meets the conditions to a greater extent may appear, which is more favourable in that case. Someone to introduce some new technology. You know, technology changes here year after year. I know back three, four years, this digital technique was rare. Today, no one is getting into the field of broadcasting without that digital technique. No one's serious about that. Who knows what else it'll lead to. It may happen that one who meets the criteria and gets a 10-year permit meets all of it, but ignores technological development. You didn't oblige him to monitor this technological development, and you can't even assume if he's going to have financial opportunities. There'll be some with a miracle technique after 10 years, you have to go to a new competition. So I suggest that this article be shortened in 64 and that, over the period on which the permit for the broadcast of the programme has been issued, the permit ceases to be valid. Or we could rephrase it a little bit nicer, a little more in writing -- the program broadcast permit stops valid over the deadline for which it was issued. That would be the simplest. Well, then, by the end of that deadline, everyone goes to the competition normally. You know, don't let anyone get that license stay forever. Then the competition is choking again. Only one who experiences a financial fiasco, who completely fails, or who doesn't meet some of the conditions, is deprived of his license. Only by a criminal measure comes the possibility of changing the emitter. It's got to be a little bit more distracted. No one must ever be given that privilege once and for all. You yourself know that the area of broadcasting is the area of national wealth of limited resources. If you start dividing all frequencies, after a while there'll be nothing more to share. Then the more agencies, in principle, will not even be involved in the assignments, but only in the control of the use. Only in the event of application of the sanctions will the frequency be allocated to someone new, again through the competition. There will be other cases in practice. When the agency takes someone's frequency away, it's very unpleasant for others who compete for that same frequency, especially if the public is obviously not all the legal conditions for taking the frequency, and the frequency has been taken away. That's your manners in other things. It is justified to assume that this manner will also appear to you in the sphere of broadcasting. You're also taking the parliamentary mandates without the legal conditions being met. You're removing the entire parliamentary group from the session, and the legal conditions are not met. You are kidnapping parliamentary groups of mandates, and the legal conditions are not met. So, there's a whole series of arguments that can reasonably be assumed that in some case you won't... Now you've turned my phone on, I just turned it off. Don't do that. Why are you doing this? Leave it. There's nothing you can do to interfere with me in my intention to explain every amendment I've submitted and it's not worth it to you. Now you don't know how to turn it off, and you knew how to turn it on. It was off. You can do whatever you want, I don't care. It will not stabilize or solidify your authority. It can only go on in public to ruin you. So, in this case, we need to create conditions that will allow for a higher degree of change in radio - television broadcasters. Anyone who gets a license should know in the beginning that for those 10 years he has to follow technological developments in the next competition must be qualified to keep that frequency, because if someone else meets more or more high-quality conditions, he may get a frequency. That's the point, so no one gets to you once in a while, keep that frequency most of the time. The more you make legal norms here that definitely give rights to certain contractors of the radio program, the broadcasters, as you call them, the greater the likelihood that the first next ruling set will abolish the law in general and bring about a new one. Then all those rights previously acquired simply won't exist, because you're acting the same way by the rights acquired by federal law. What someone acquired by federal law for a certain number of years, you don't respect at all today, you don't appreciate. You act like you don't have that right.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23146	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? The word has been made by MP Zoran Angelkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23147	Here, in fact, the emitter can be in a difficult position unless the agency or council responds in the right way and at the right time. What's the matter? If the agency's advice after a certain period of time, after eight years, doesn't call a new competition, so the broadcaster can't apply to that contest, why would the broadcaster be guilty about it? The agency's advice is not binding here that, after eight years of getting some right to broadcast the program, it has an obligation to broadcast the program. Then it would have to say that if the agency didn't respond, didn't call the competition, didn't report someone else, didn't give it to anyone else, in which case it continues to broadcast until someone else took over the frequency. Otherwise, it turns out this way that the agency can shut him out of his right to broadcast.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23148	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 66th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Adam Urosevic. Is anyone answering for word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? The word of the People's Messenger is Adam Urosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23149	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I think it is necessary, because of the full information of the citizens of Serbia who are closely following the meeting of this high house, to first quote the said member of the proposed law on broadcasting, and later to present the supplement, of course, which is foreseen by that amendment. So allow me to quote Article 9th, paragraph 66. Proposal for a law on broadcasting, which regulates the mandatory payment of compensation. According to this attitude, "For the first six months of the right to broadcast the broadcast programme, the broadcaster pays a total six-month fee from the 5th article's position within seven days of the day of receipt of the grant notice. In the next period of use of the right of the broadcaster, it is required that its monthly obligation to pay compensation by the fifth month of the month for the current month." The Soviet Parliament's group has tabled an amendment to this position, asking for this position to be changed and said, "The broadcaster is obliged to pay the programme's broadcasting fee monthly in advance, until the fifth month for the current month." Let me briefly explain this proposal. The establishment of the obligation to pay a six-month advance fee, during the first six months of the right to broadcast, represents a kind of indemnifying financial attack on broadcasters, especially on private local radio stations, since during the period of organisation and establishment of software, technical and personnel concepts in accordance with the prescribed standards, broadcasters have the highest financial expenditure. We believe that the reason for the proposing is because of these funds and the agency's work is financed. However, it should also be borne in mind that, over the past period, private local radio stations have been exposed to political and economic-market repression and have been materially exhausted, and that certain standards relating to the content of the programme that is being broadcast, which may lead to a lack of respect for appropriate legal measures by the agency, are also being questioned. Therefore, on behalf of the Assembly Group, I call on you to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23150	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Radojko Petrovic, Zoran Andjelkovic, Velimir Živojnović, Milos Nesovic, Rajko Baralic, Nebojsa Jović and Dusan Cvetkovic submitted to Article 66 of the amendment. Is anyone answering for word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? The word has a folk MP, Radojko Petric.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23151	Dear Presidency, honourable MPs, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, along with a group of SPS MPs, I have submitted an amendment to Article 66. A bill of this law. This member shall be governed by the obligation to pay the programme's broadcasting fee. In the position of the 9th member, the government predicted that the broadcaster must once pay a half-year fee to the republican broadcasting agency for the first six months, within seven days of the date of receipt of the broadcast notice. For the next period, the government predicted that the broadcaster would pay the monthly obligation by the fifth month for the current month. Given the fact that the broadcaster has the highest expenditure at the start of work, it is not right to prescribe that it should immediately pay up to six months in advance for programme broadcasting fees. It must be appreciated that the broadcaster has the greatest need at the beginning of the work to provide financial resources, and considerable financial resources, in order to provide equipment, means to hire journalists and other professional workers, business space and others. It is also wrong to prescribe that the emitter later pays the monthly fee by the fifth month for the current month, or one month in advance. What kind of service pays in advance for us and the world? Starting from the above mentioned facts, the amendment proposes a more realistic, in fact a fairer approach. In fact, it is proposed that the broadcaster should pay a three-month fee instead of six months in advance, within seven days of the date of receipt of the grant notice. So, he still commits to pay for a corporal in advance, but not really for six months, but for three months, and for him to know, if he's already applied, that he has to secure some of the funds, not to be so drastically taxed, to pay at the beginning. The amendment also suggests that during the next period, the emitter will monthly settle its obligations until the fifth of the month for the previous month, not in advance for the current month, because these are the obligations paid in the ordinary business ahead. They are actually paid when the service is executed, or when that right is used then the payment is made, which is for the previous month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23152	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? Here's a word from the Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Zarko Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23153	I thank you, Madam Vice President, honourable Members of the People, these objections certainly have a basis. It's about what may not have been seen now. We were just having a big debate about it -- where the agency's funds started working. It is certainly clear to you that apart from RTS and Radio - TV Novi Sad, which will be public services, everyone, absolutely everyone else and television and radio broadcasters in Serbia must report to the competition. So we're going to have something that can be called a zero point radio - television Serbian. The biggest job of this agency will be right at the beginning. You've just found out yourself, and you've questioned the automation of frequency restoration. I didn't want to answer your earlier remarks, because they would create enormous uncertainty with those who invested huge funds. Because if they meet what the law says, very strict conditions and criteria of the public, but also something that no one has ever talked about - commercial conditions, that people want to watch and listen to the radio at all, then, of course, they'll be extended by automation. But since these funds are being raised at the beginning, and the agency will have the biggest job in the beginning, to build up, to adopt a sublegal act, to conclude contracts with those who will eventually (or herself or someone for it, and we have found) oversee the realisation of these legal conditions, how the programme is implemented, whether the legal conditions are met, then unfortunately this serves to get the funds that the agency can even start working, to establish itself. So, in some sense you are right -- why do that man who's already given a lot of money for equipment now make you give six months in advance. But there's no other way for the agency to start working. The alternative was, we were thinking about loaning the agency money from Serbia's budget to get it back. But you'll agree, we still wouldn't be able to do that. So, in this case, it's practically this request to provide the agency with funds to start their work.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23154	National MP Zoran Angelkovic, an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group, spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23155	This is the point where both sides are right, but there is one solution that I have just proposed, Mr. Korać, which is that all means (but that is again the issue of the independence of this agency) that are collected from the subscription go to the expense of this agency, the advice of the agency. He would from his share, from the percentage he would take from the subscription, and the rest delivered at the expense of Serbia's broadcasting, have a starting position to work successfully. After all, I guess the most honest thing is that viewers who already pay, or owners of radio and television receivers, help because they are interested in working well, for they will arrange radio - television space in their interest. We are here all the time only talking about the interests of the state, the interests of the broadcasters and the interests of the council, and in no way during this debate on the law we are not talking about the interests of citizens, the interests of those who listen and watch radio - television programs. Therefore, the most logical thing would be, in that case, to resolve the issue so that all income comes to the expense of the agency. It would by its act arrange that 95% of the funds go to Serbia's broadcasting account, and with that 5% could start; and it is true -- the biggest job is at the beginning, and these small radio stations would remain. When we say, little ones, we're all talking about these few TVs, but that's not what this is about. We're talking about some TV in New Pazar or anywhere else, that little television that needs that local environment and that makes ends meet. After all, in most of these TV stations you've been visiting and you know that only a couple of TVs have good studies, good technique, and everything else, if we're to be honest, is collected "from stakes and ropes" so that it can work successfully. Now that you start all of this - technical conditions and six months ahead, they will not be able to compete objectively, and with these means, the agency could effectively resolve these issues and stabilise the situation in the media area in Serbia over the next year.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23156	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 67 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here's a word from MP Vojislav Seselj. Will you use the time of the president of the parliamentary group?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23157	I'd use it if that means you're not gonna finish the session yet.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23158	If you want to use both of the times you have the right to do this, then it will be respected. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23159	What's that gonna be?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23160	Respected.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23161	I don't know what that means to you - honorably. It's not in Serbian. That'll be--respectful. There is no such thing as honor. [[Sagar.]] Respectfully, it's like sticking a person to mail from all sides, so he's respected. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23162	You're right. Your time will be respected by the end of six minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23163	I know you're very intelligent, educated, and you know you're learning no matter what anyone thinks.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23164	Every time I have one. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23165	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I ask that the first position in this article 67 be changed. You see, here you predict the privilege of broadcasting public service facilities, as you call it, which is actually state radio and television stations of all levels. The question arises - what would they have the privilege of paying programme broadcasting fees? That's where everyone has to be even. Maybe you're starting from the fact that many of these local radios and television stations won't be able to, they don't have money. Okay, but then you put it here - until they're abolished or sold, or privatized. But what do you want with a radio and TV stations? Civil sector. Well, enough of these NGOs. First, most were paid by Western intelligence. Now you've put them on the budget. You now finance them from the budget; so you include them in the management of the agency, as members of the agency's council; so you allow them to have their radio and television stations; so you also release them from the obligation to pay radio and television broadcasting fees. You've gone too far. It really doesn't make sense. Look, as soon as the government changes, I guarantee you that they will be removed from the budget from all these NGOs. You've set a budget of 500 million. A dinar for their funding. The Budget Law says, Korac, you may not have read it. Then they won't have public authority, they won't be represented anywhere like here on the agency's council. They'll be thrown out everywhere. They'll have to finance themselves. If they don't have the money, they'll shut down. What do we care? And he won't have these privileges. They won't be able to, unless they start a previous company, they won't be able to own radio and TV stations, they won't have any privileges, they won't have any exemption from paying programme broadcasting fees. Your attitude 3 is particularly pointless. Paragraph 3 states: "Radio and television stations of churches and religious communities do not pay compensation for broadcasting programmes until the end of the recovery process to these churches and religious communities seized after World War II in the process of nationalisation, confiscation, expropriation and others." This is something amazing, this law of yours is a program character. You're guessing by this law that a return law will be passed. How do you know? Perhaps the Assembly will vote against that possible law. You don't know that in advance. You shouldn't know in advance, that's the point. You cannot make yourself bound by one legal text to pass another accompanying law. For example. The Privatisation Act also required the adoption of a legal act on the Privatisation Agency, etc. However, you can't assume this way that such a law will be passed. Secondly, I think it's best that there's a short standard here -- radio and TV stations of churches and religious communities don't pay compensation for broadcasting programs, period. Nothing more. Secondly, if the country will return to churches and religious communities, then all land and all property must return, and not just those taken away after World War II. What is the difference between the property taken from the communists and the property taken from King Alexander? You don't seem to know yet that the King Alexander of the Serbian Orthodox Church has taken much more of the land than the communists. The Communists have seized more buildings. When it comes to agricultural and forest land, even communists did so with agrarian reform. It was Alexander's agrarian reform and there were two agrarian reforms that the communists carried out. Therefore, there must be the same attitude, the same criterion. If everything goes back to the religious communities, or if everything goes back to the religious communities, because the Islamic religious community does not allow this term - the church, then everything the state has ever taken away from them, not from the communists, must be returned. The communists were villains and criminals, but they were not the only ones in Serbian history. That's the problem. You cannot exculpate King Alexander now. Be careful, and when the patriarch was chosen, the communists were subtle, so first they blackmailed certain bishops, compromised, bribed. And King Alexander brutally, by force, says - he can't until I say my word. So what's up there? Did you warn me?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23166	I issue a warning after 30 seconds from the Rules of Procedure, because of the need for the MP, who speaks to complete the thought and completes the speech in full. During the debate in detail on article 67, I set a break of up to 15.00 hours, when we will continue our afternoon work.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23167	Ladies and gentlemen, please insert identification cards into your MPs to determine the quorum. I find that we have a quorum and we can continue to work on the debate in detail on the draft law on broadcasting. On Article 67 of the amendment, MP Vojislav Seselj submitted and explained the amendment. Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 67 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. The People's Parliament shall withdraw the amendment to Article 67. National MP Velimir Simonovic submitted to the 67th amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23168	Ladies and gentlemen, I suggest that in article 67, in the third row after the text: "... which are in general state property, drop the text: "... and television stations of the civil sector." Here is an explanation, since the law on associations of citizens has not yet been introduced unclearly, which is the civil sector and how the property of the association of citizens will be treated and that is very important. Given that the assets in television are not small, it must be accurately determined to have ownership of it, if it has private properties, releases from paying for the broadcasting of NGOs, it would be unfair for other private and commercial broadcasters. In any case, without the law on the association of citizens, no one can be granted the privileges of this type because, since we do not have the law on the association of citizens, the civil sector is not defined in the definitions of Article 4, so it is not clear what the civil sector is. Especially is this part of the explanation where the property is talked about and the benefits they would have. I haven't written an amendment to this member's third position, because I said in the principle debate that there's no point in giving churches and religious communities free broadcasts. That's when I said that no producer is likely to grant them free programs. What would you do, when programs usually cost him a lot, and especially since there are churches that are very rich, so it's completely meaningless, that it's given to broadcast programs for free where someone else invested money in all of that.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23169	Does anyone else sign up for a word? Yeah. ) The word is held by MP Vojislav Seselj, president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23170	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I support this amendment, pointing to the entire Serbian public for all the dangers behind your insistence, so-called. Civil sector, so-called NGOs, and what you call it. First of all, the use of the term here is pointless - the civil sector, because the civil sector is also a private sector. All privates are civilians, except when they're mobilized and serving the army, so this term is absolutely pointless, but since you're undermining it so-called. NGOs, it's obvious that through a whole series of system laws, you extend them under the pressure of Western forces, one system of parallel government is being built, and why? This official, legal authority is dependent on the election, the elections must be held periodically, and no one from the West can tell you - forbid the election; it would not have passed in Western public opinion, although we remember the times when Americans and these things did, or even in Europe. In Greece, the colonel's junta was brought to power in 1967. Since the election is uncertain, they are uncertain by their results, they are trying to build up a parallel system of authorities to control what is most important to the Western powers until the next elections. It's the military, the police and the media, especially the broadcasting media. They're doing it through the so-called. NGOs. NGOs don't go to elections, they don't know if the people have sympathy for them or not, whether or not they respect them. You don't know at all what the quality of people in them are, and I know that they're the worst, but that's my private knowledge, there's no possibility and objective criteria to check it through elections. Furthermore, these NGOs obtained money from foreign intelligence services, from foreign governments and from NGOs, as it is said, and they have been synchronised and harmoniously acting in favour of the realisation of a political goal. The political goal was achieved in 2000, and now it serves to build a parallel system of government so that the political goal will be overrun in its duration of the social consequences, etc. When the state government...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23171	I'm warning you, time's over.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23172	Okay. When you take away the government's army, the police and the media, what's left of it? Nothing.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23173	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? Yeah. ) The word is attended by MP Zoran Angelkovic, authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23174	Ladies and gentlemen, we support this amendment for the simple reason that this article actually leads to discrimination against one number of media against other media. It's not just about the civil sector, as it's called. But when it comes to radio-television stations where they own the municipality, be careful, on the one hand, they don't pay any broadcasting fee, on the other hand they're in the budgets, mostly, the municipalities, and they have the appropriate grant. So they're twice as rewarded as there's going to be some local media in that environment owned by any individual or group of individuals, and then even when we add to that this civilian sector, it's a complete inequality in the media. When you have this inequality, then you can't even have objectivity, and I guess the whole law is meant to achieve objectivity in informing in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23175	No more reported for the word on this amendment. National MPs Milos Nesovic, Joca Arsic and Milan Stankovic submitted together to the 67th amendment. Please, the word has been made by MP Joca Arsic, representative of the amendment applicants to Article 67. Proposal for a law on broadcasting.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23176	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, as has already been said, a group of SPS MPs, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, has tabled an amendment to Article 67, which provides for the erasure of section 3. For full information to the public to read and read the entire article 67: "The institutions of the public broadcasting service of the Republic of Serbia and the Autonomous provinces, radio and television stations of local and regional communities, which are in general state-owned, as well as civil-sector radio and television stations, pay only compensation for the permit for the broadcasting station (the compensation for the use of radio frequency), and they are freed from the fees for broadcasting the programme. Radio and television stations of local and regional communities with private capital participation are paying compensation for broadcasting the programme relatively percentage of the participation. Radio and television stations of churches and religious communities do not pay compensation for broadcasting until the return of property to these churches and religious communities seized after World War II in the process of nationalisation, confiscation, expropriation and others." We have suggested that item 3 be deleted in part after the word "programme", to delete the text "until the end of the process of return of property to these churches and religious communities seized after World War II in the process of nationalisation, confiscation, expropriation and others". We believe that this part of the text is completely unnecessary, given what we are talking about, above all, the civil sector, that it is not obliged to pay, and that the religious communities will be obliged to pay, but it is not known when, when the law is passed, the return of property to all religious communities is carried out. I can tell you that there is one illogicality here. There are religious communities whose country has not been taken away at all. Will this mean that the religious communities that have never been taken away from property begin to pay the moment the property is recovered to those to whom it was taken. First of all, it is thought of the Orthodox Church and the Roman Catholic Church. My colleagues here have been talking about how this seizure has been in the past. It must have been before 1945, on various grounds, and it is absolutely true that the country was taken away from religious communities, agrarian reforms were carried out before 1945, on several occasions and the assignment of the country to agrarian stakeholders before 1945, or before World War II.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23177	I'm warning you of an overrun of the time allowed.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23178	Just one more sentence. Finally, these religious communities would be completely unequal to the civil sector, because they are being released, and religious communities are waiting for time to re-establish payment. I think this amendment is logical and that the Assembly should adopt it, even though the Committee on Culture rejected it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23179	National MP Vojislav Seselj, president of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group, spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23180	Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment is in line with the amendment of the Serbian Radical Party that I have just explained, but I will give an additional explanation why I support it. You see, you don't care at all about this law, and that's what I've been talking about when it comes to forming an agency's advice, that the question of the church and the religious communities isn't regulated by law. There is only a general constitutional decree that confession of faith is free, that churches are free and separate from the state, and nothing more. The law is necessary. There's nowhere to stand here that churches and religious communities will be at stake. You prepare the conditions to treat traditional churches and religious communities in the same way and newly combined religious sects. You don't have a basic distinction here. Tomorrow, when Jehovah’s Witnesses, the Mun sect, various Satanists, appear, how will the agency’s advice reject them? How is he going to say, you are not churches and religious communities; on what basis? Where's he gonna look for a foothold? Or you will leave the agency's advice to assess what a church is and what is not a church, what is a religious community, and what is not a religious community. In a certain way, seven traditional churches and religious communities have been designated in the introduction of religious science, although there has been a whole series of incompetence in action. It's supposed to be in this law. The Agency's advice can't be called to your regulation on religious teaching or on the law on education and to say - that's what you are. There is no general provision that they are only in the legal system of the church and the religious community, in the right sense of words, but that only they have the right to religious instruction. However, it does not appear anywhere that these others do not have the right to broadcasting. Why isn't it standing? Do you perhaps purposely prepare conditions in which religious sects will be able to own radio and television stations, along with free payments of certain obligations to the state? What does that mean? In that case, the religious sects will flood our media scene. This is where Zarko Korać spoke of various gossipists, Cleopatras and the like. What is the difference between Cleopatra and Mun’s sect or Jehovah’s Witnesses or yoga flyers, which I know what they are already called. It doesn't make any difference.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23181	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 68 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23182	Ladies and gentlemen, I suggest in Article 68, I ask in my first position that only one word be deleted. "All broadcasters in the field of their programming concepts are required to respect the following standards when broadcasting the programme in relation to the content of the programme." Now everything is listed in point 1) is said - applying world and national standards, providing production and broadcasting of quality programs, both from technical point of view and from the point of view of the content of the programme. It's all right just to get rid of the world's standards. It should stand - by applying appropriate standards, or - domestic standards, and our standards must be adapted to some other legal principles of the prevailing world. This is where you think of all the world's standards. There can be different standards in the world and there is not one single standard for the whole world in this area, it doesn't exist. It could be said that there is a Western European standard, a North American standard, an Asian standard, an African, a South American standard. It may be regionally grouped in a certain way, but that there is one single world standard, it's impossible. How can I be sure of what I'm saying? I often wander through these satellite channels and encounter a variety of programs. You see, these standards can be clearly grouped into certain continents, by software content, even by the technology they use. European standards are already all on digital technology, these others are not. They can group by satellite type, etc. There are various standards in this sphere. Then why specify - by applying world standards. Then someone tells you, this is exactly the standard of that and that end of the world. Is it world-class? Yes, it is. As soon as he's accepted by more countries, it's worldwide. It's not worth it. You need to choose some of the world's standards, so say that and that standard, if you want to have them blended into this law and its standard of world standards, but you just have to build a national standard. Of course, it's not your fault that that national standard wasn't built. He hasn't been built before. We had such a turbulent atmosphere in the media sphere that people could get dizzy, but there was no sorting out. I'm convinced you're not going to take him down either, but I'd like to point out here in public some elements that, by enrolling in the law, could contribute to the settlement of those standards, so you take care of every norm, every word, every sentence. It's pointless for you to treat it this much in general. Secondly, I have already insisted in the principle debate that in point 6 the question of pornography be specified. I think the term anti-natural fornication should be used first. This anti-natural fornication as a term, as a term, exists in our legal order and should add a certain term, I don't know which would be the happiest, but it needs experts to make known, whether these are flattering scenes, whether they are similar scenes, it could fit into the law. But to leave it just the way it is, that term pornography doesn't really mean anything and leaves a huge freedom of interpretation. I guarantee you, what in Belgrade is not pornography somewhere deep inside will be pornography, from the point of view of those who will object to the agency's advice. The agency's council will be in a position to take different views on certain issues, because, in one case, it may have wider criteria, and in the other case, the rope, if it is not specified here. It's supposed to be accurate. There must be some objective criterion for it not only to be a subjective assessment of people who are in a situation to process; but, objectively, it is because it contains this and that, and then it is definitely clear. It's not hard to do. I could do that for you right now and blow it to the finish line, and all I'm afraid is that a stream of laughter would distract it all. You know, I'm not running away from laughs or jokes or anything, but this thing is too serious to let you compromise it with that noise of laughter.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23183	Thank you. Does anyone else sign up for a word? Here's a word from the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Zarko Korać, the representative of the motionary.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23184	Madam President, honourable Members of the People, we have led this debate here to some extent. As you know, when we talked about Article 19, we said in Section 1: "The Agency is concerned about protecting minors and respecting the dignity of individuals in programmes that are shown through radio and television, which is the general binding instruction. Obviously, one of the most difficult jobs of this agency will be to bring this instruction." I have to say now from my professional experiences, as a psychologist, that there is no until the end satisfactory definition of pornography, although anti-natural fornication exists in a narrow sense, it is a narrow thing, it can be made to some extent a technical definition. The problem is that this is usually solved in all countries so that there is some kind of expert commission, meaning people of undeniable authority, people of the media, psychiatrists, psychologists, etc., who, unfortunately, in some cases must decide whether or not something falls under that definition. I also have to say that there can be litigation here later. It's very commercial, unfortunately, sometimes to show this kind of content. Obviously, like many countries, we'll have litigation over what porn is and what isn't. She's a certain, respected MP, context. One scene, identical, in one artistic context is treated as an artistic thing, and in another context is treated as pornography. The technical definition is not enough. It's usually about context, purpose, purpose, etc. So I'd just like to say, this is an example of how the agency is going to have to do a lot of things. One of them is to give a certain instruction on what she will consider to be something that is not allowed, but I'm afraid in some cases there will obviously be some, if I may say so, other possibility that some panel will make an assessment of something that is controversial. I think it's possible here for certain norms, and I want to remind you that norming is, in some other cases, a matter of expert assessment, which, unfortunately, can often differ drastically from what is treated as pornography. Although I'm saying, anti-natural fornication is one narrow thing that can be technically standardized, but unfortunately it's not enough, because pornography is a much wider term.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23185	Thank you. MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the DOS parliamentary group, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23186	Ms. Micic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I would ask you to make a decision in accordance with Article 81's position on the basis of which we would extend our work today, so that we can complete the debate in detail on the law on broadcasting and thus meet individual parliamentary requirements that have gone towards extending the work of the session for Monday. I think that such a thing is necessary, given the large agenda and some limits that we must respect and which are due to the parallel activities of the Members in this assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23187	I am putting on the vote by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the DOS parliamentary group, to extend the National Assembly to work until the debate is over in detail. At this point, of course, I said to finish the discussion in detail on the draft law on broadcasting. For 95, against 30, the abstentions were not voted 22, out of 147 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided to extend today's work until the final debate on the draft law on broadcasting. What about Monday? ) On Monday they ask the MPs? On the basis of Article 81(4), - an extraordinary session of the National Assembly can be held on another day if there are reasonable reasons why the President of the National Assembly will tell lawmakers when the session is decided to take place on another day - I declare Monday will be a working day, because there are reasonable reasons to complete these agenda points by 1 August. (Vojislav Seselj, from the post: Business proposal. ) A proposal by the Rules of Procedure, here you go; and you've mostly heard a statement Monday, it's working day.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23188	I think it's very good that you've made a decision to work today until this agenda ends. Because I'm an opposition, by nature I voted things against, I'm intimately glad you made that decision. I would suggest that a new decision be taken now to determine tomorrow's voting day, to complete tomorrow's vote on this law immediately, so that it can be announced immediately. There are many other things to do to prepare its implementation in practice. I don't mind doing regular work on the rest of the agenda on Monday. There are a lot of amendments here, and it'll take you at least two hours to vote tomorrow, so it can be done tomorrow. It's Petrovday tomorrow. I know it's Petrovday tomorrow, and at Petrovday, you go to church, candle light and come and work normally, because it's workday. Petrov day has not been declared a national holiday. It's a day's work like any other day's work. Tomorrow we'll fast, because it's Friday, but we'll work normally, I guess.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23189	I am sorry, MP, but your proposal is not in line with the Rules of Procedure, so I cannot put it to the vote, because it is, in fact, Article 81: "The President of the National Assembly sets a day for voting after the debate on all points of the agenda". Therefore, you do not have a proposal in line with the Rules of Procedure. Is anyone else answering for word after the amendment? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Marko Petrovic, Zoran Ćirković, Zlata Đerić, Miodrag Stamenković and Radic Jokovic submitted together to the 68th amendment. Here's a word for the Parliament of the People, Zlata Đeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23190	Dear colleagues and colleagues, in front of the New Serbia parliamentary group, I am obliged to explain to you why we have submitted this amendment and why you should support it. At the end of last year, in New York, the international association of 195 music associations from around the world, including representatives of our country, declared a resolution that suggested to the governments of the member states that in order to protect and cultivate authentic national music, they regulate and prescribe the obligation to represent national music with at least 40% of the electronic media programme. Already in December 2001, this initiative in Serbia was launched by the Association for the Breeding and Conservation of Music in the Spirit of People's Creation "The Roots". This association normally brings together the largest number of prominent artists, music editors, ethnousciologists and music creators. The initiative is addressed to 71 addresses, by the government of the Republic of Serbia, ministries, political parties and all other organisations. No one has shown enough hearing for this initiative. New Serbia could neither or dare to disobey the initiative, so the New Serbia parliamentary club submits an amendment that reads: Article 68(1) post-7 adds a new point 8) that reads - it emits at least 40% of the music of national origin. Because of the citizens who chose us, among other things, and to worry about the minimum of national interest and because of you, colleagues and colleagues, we are obliged to present some more information. In fact, the said resolution immediately applied many of the countries we believe are both democratic and developed. For example, France has built in its law a provision of as much as 70% of national music required to broadcast electronic media. In our neighbourhood, Croatia and Slovenia regulated it with 80%. We know that the Greeks are jealous of their language, their culture and their letter, and that is why they are extremely respected and appreciated in the world. I don't think we should be on the tail of events. To clarify, the obligation of representation of at least 40% of authentic national music involves both its own folk music, and fun and classical music. Moreover, it means the obligation of the state to take care of the protection of every cultural, therefore, and our musical heritage. This means, if the state assumes an obligation to care for cultural monuments, if certain plant and animal species are protected from extinction and extinction, so our national musical goods must be protected. Another argument remains: June 4th at RTS, first program, prime time, show "For and Against", on a clearly formulated question - are you in favour of having national music represented in the media legally regulated, over 2,000 viewers, more than 75%, declared. I guess this information makes us bound to something. I call on all fellow Members and fellow Members, regardless of party colors, uniforms and interests, to be unanimous on the protection and care of our own music heritage, because old wisdom teaches us to respect ourselves so that others may respect us.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23191	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? The word is by MP Zoran Angelkovic, the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23192	This isn't just about Gold, but the amendment is good. Of course, I think it can expand if the government accepts it, even if it doesn't write just 40% of the music of national origin, but 40% of the programme of domestic content. You have television programs and some television stations that actually don't have any home movies. So it turns out it's a television that only re-airs some foreign movies. I think it would be best to say - 40% of the national programme, and then that means, where the radio or television station is music, that 40% of the program is represented by music of national origin. So I suggest that this amendment be supported, and that the government finds a formula that would ensure that domestic content is just forced on radio stations that are licensed. Of course, it's possible to say here in an explanation that this should solve the agency's advice through an additional programme and a project of what it requires from the broadcasters themselves who ask for permission, but if there are any conditions, then I think that this condition can exist in the law itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23193	The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23194	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I agree with this amendment, which was explained by Mrs Zlata Djeric, but I do not agree with the explanation presented by Zoran Angelkovic in support of the amendment. It's not the same thing. As I recall, I don't know exactly in which member, at least 50% of the domestic programme is foreseen, 20% of the production itself. This is about something else, about national music. Supporting that amendment, I also advocate its recast. This "national music" could also mean all music in Serbian. She's all national. I would put -- the original folk music here, and then it is understood that Serbian folk music is in Serbian. It can be implicated, too. Televisions that will be broadcast in Hungarian -- there will be original Hungarian music, or other national minorities, because it is understood that we will have local television in different languages, in Serbian and in the languages of national minorities. So it's important to keep the people's treasure, to develop love for it, to repopulate. Then it would be the best term - original folk music. Then you know exactly what you're thinking. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, It may not be particularly professional, but it's common and everyone will understand what it's all about. The original folk music is music created by the people and cannot be determined by the author, or by an individual author, but it has completely affected the people's spirit. There are newcomponents who do a little imitation of the original folk, but they're not exactly that. There are very beautiful songs, but they can't be called some cultural and historical treasure of this people. They will neither be removed from the program if these original peoples are forced, nor can they be avoided. (A voice from the O.R.: "A gusle"? Well, and geese, of course. Those of you who make fun of geese need a little bit of a heads-up, think about it. I think in our programs, we rarely watch pirates and listen to geese. It's too rare. You can laugh at it for free, but that's what makes our people. Whoever gives up on a human being, of course, prefers to listen to those junkies from the West, etc.; you don't understand the text, you don't feel the melodiousness, you don't feel the tonality, but you're comfortable with the rhythm and you're glad it's all deafening.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23195	The word is made by MP Momcilo Trajkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23196	I feel the need to report for this amendment and support it, considering the real situation in our national ethnomism. In recent days, I've had the opportunity to hang out with people who are engaged in guarding our national treasure, our national music, and I see their fear and position in which they are today. Today's position of national music and people dealing with security of this national music is terrifying. So, simply, there are fewer of them. In the trend of Serbia's Europeanisation, we must not at any time forget what our true wealth is. In that sense, I support and propose that the National Assembly accept this very important amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23197	People's MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the DOS parliamentary group, spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23198	Mrs. Micic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I don't think we can dispute the good intentions of the promoter of this amendment, but I really ask you to very seriously treat this law, to read the whole law, and then, in accordance with that law, we are thinking in the context of the time in which we live. What happens if he shows up at a competition that's going to be organised by a broadcasting agency, a television that only wants to deal with an information program that wants to broadcast news? Are we going to make them play 40% of the music that has some ethnic context, national character, etc? I think the definition of art is more than problematic in this way; it's practically inconclusive. You have a 79th member with specific obligations in the production and transmission of an information programme of a broadcasting institution, i.e. public service. We're talking about RTS. Mr. Angelkovic, I'd like to ask you, this is your last free lesson. Don't bother us anymore. We've been working for days. Who knows which way you and the representatives of the government and we as MPs point to reading the law as a whole. Therefore, in Article 79 of this Law, you have a precise commitment of state radio and state television to broadcast a cultural programme that will cultivate cultural heritage. The way it was done over the past ten years has created one of the most rude countries in the region from this country. We are trying to change this between ourselves and through the obligation of a broadcasting institution of the Republic to broadcast a programme that protects our cultural interests, general cultural interests, and this may be a question of our cultural identity, both the people and the national minority, ethnic groups, through the possibility that certain programmes or programming continents in the area where they live and work follow in their native language, in their letter, etc. But it has nothing to do with commercial television. It has nothing to do with genre television or radio station. It has nothing to do with "S" radio. Take this debate seriously, among other things, and respect the facts in this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23199	Thank you. Just one brief notice to MP Momcilo Trajkovic: the right to speak, according to Article 89, since you do not belong to any parliamentary group, you can only use in the principle debate, so this was only an exception. Are you answering for the replica? Same thing, straight to the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23200	The amendment promoter absolutely meant the entire musical heritage. As for television that registers only for information programmes, it will certainly not have an obligation to broadcast music programs. So it only applies to the music program. I don't think the countries that have already installed this, like France or other European countries, have lost anything and are nothing more serious than us. So I don't know what we're going to go into Europe with, except for our cultural heritage. Maybe with the technology being exceeded? Well, sports are starting to fall into the hands of the mob. Therefore, we must begin to impose Europe on our cultural tradition, which is truly for respect and has always been for respect. Even at a time when we were called - Europe's Turkey, we were drawn to attention only by someone finding out that we have the world's most extraordinary, possibly richest cultural heritage.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23201	Right on line, MP Zoran Angelkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23202	Forty percent of ten minutes is four minutes. Forty percent of one minute is known to be, indeed, 24 seconds. Right, Chad? So this isn't about anything else. [[Sagar.]] If it's even such a radio or radio and television (and Mrs. Zlata best explained it to you, that I don't explain it to you, you can't turn it around with a raised tone), that there's only an information program, and there are two or three songs in the information program between the two information shows, and there are also domestic melos. Besides, when you talk about Radio "S" and it has 40%, it's just not about that music, just the original music, it's about national music, domestic music. This music is talked about, not just foreign music and not just original music.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23203	The president of the Committee on Culture and Elimination, MP Ivan Andric, spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23204	I must say that the Committee has not accepted this amendment for the following reasons. First, as Mr Jovanovic said, this amendment, respecting all your good intentions, is not the place in this article. So it's pointless to talk about it. What Mr. Angelkovic said now is not possible. So it's not this member. It was possible to install it into another member. I'm only talking technically about this amendment. Furthermore, article 73 states that the broadcaster is obliged to broadcast 50% of the Serbian-language programme from the total annual broadcasting time, and 50% of the domestic production. This applies to all kinds of programs, including music. So the only reason the Committee didn't accept the amendment is because it's not technically well solved, and we've all taken the view that it's not a good formulation to force someone's percentages to cultural development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23205	Thank you. Member of the 68th amendment was submitted by MP Živojin Stjepic. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here's a word from the People's Messenger Zvoojin Stjepić.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23206	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to welcome you to my first announcement of my word in this assembly, because I am a soon-to-be MP. So on behalf of the Democratic Party of Serbia, I have submitted three amendments that have the same explanation, so I will use only one announcement so as not to take up valuable time for all of you. This concerns the broadcaster's obligation to create and broadcast programmes to ensure the use of Serbian language in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the Law on the Official Use of Language and Letters. Why? The explanation is - since there is no concrete programme, nor is there any systematic policy by various institutions in Serbia on the use of Cyrillic letters, this problem is often left to the case and to the goodwill of individuals. That's why we're introducing you to the following facts that aren't familiar to all of you. First, the international standard of languages and letters, not to mention which, since 1998, defines that no Serbian language is included in the Latin list. There is only one letter for the Serbian language, a Cyrillic, and a Latin is specified for the Croatian language. So the thesis, which some more individuals represent in our country, is that also the Latin Serbian letter has already been shot down by world linguists and international institutions. Secondly, the SRJ Constitution and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Law on Official Use of Language and Letters, also define Cyrillic as an official letter. Despite clear legal obligations, however, today the Cyrillic is only by the constitutions and laws, and in practice the letter of the second order. If that were true, you can make sure every day watching all possible television programs in our dear and beautiful state of Serbia, where Latina is the dominant letter in the title, for example, series, films, announcement of the programme and everything else. Cyrillic may be used a total of 10% in all these cases, and this is one way to force the emitters to use Cyrillic letters. For he who does not respect his tradition, his language, his speech and his letter does not respect either the state or the people to whom he belongs, nor can he fight successfully for Serbian national interests. Since we are the People's Parliament of the Serbian State, I hope soon and independently, I ask all the MPs, no matter what parliamentary group they belong to, to accept this amendment that is identical in the members of 72rd and 73rd, and thus to repay our country and our people. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23207	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? Here you go. The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23208	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this amendment has affected the problem, but it is an inadequately formulated solution. This, as it is said here - that broadcasters are obliged to ensure the use of Serbian language in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the Law on the Official Use of Language and Letters - is pointless. It is normal that the Constitution must be respected and it is pointless in every law to stress it in particular. Secondly, this is strictly a Serbian-language programme, and it needs to be specified. And, if I had worked on this amendment, I would have made that clear -- as broadcasters in Serbian language, they are obliged to make the text part of the programme and the title of the films a Cyrillic. That would make sense, and that's the only problem. We have no problem using Serbian on state television. We have a lot of words, like -- to respect, to do things like that. There's a lot of it, and there really needs a language expert to intervene, because it's too spoiling our children's language. You who don't understand that can laugh for free. That's what we should do. Therefore, if the Government is able to bring this to the vote, and it has not yet declared its amendment, it could agree with the amendment's promoters to accept the amendment so reformed, to ensure the use of the Cyrillic letter and that the Cyrillic letter is exclusively a letter in Serbian programmes, except in English, French, German, which are given under the programme. Wherever a Serbian-language programme can be used, it must be used. The Latin letter is for us an alien letter. The Latin letter can be adapted to the Serbian language, which is also solidly adapted to the Serbian language, but it is not a Serbian letter. The only Serbian letter is Cyrillic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23209	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 71 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj has the word. You don't want to go to the Federal Assembly?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23210	Now, I'll tell you a secret, there's no cooling in the Federal Assembly, it's like a sauna. And here it's so beautiful, it's got chills, and there's voices from the O.R. There's Krapovic there. ) Krapovic resigned immediately after Cedomer Jovanovic's poll report. We discovered that he stole another apartment in Montenegro and that he had committed other embezzlements as defence minister. He shouldn't have responded to our call to talk.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23211	Here, you've got the word after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23212	I suggest that Article 71 change its first position. It now reads (it is about programme policy): "The agency will set out a list of events that are of interest to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, to which only the right to transfer can be achieved by an broadcaster whose service zone, within the meaning of Article 47 of this Law, covers the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia." I ask that this attitude be re-formed and that it reads: "The agency will determine an event that is of interest to all citizens in the Republic of Serbia, on which no broadcaster can exercise the right of exclusive transmission." Why would someone have the right to an exclusive transfer of manifestation of state importance? If it's about football teams, for example, "Red Star" against some foreign team, it's a contract for a certain TV house with a "Star" to be given the right of exclusive transmission. However, if the national team is playing, then anyone who wishes must have the right to transfer. Everything that's state must not contain exclusiveity. That's the point. So what the state is behind, which is of the general state importance in any sphere of social activity, is not to be given to anyone as an exclusive right, even if he paid for it. The state here must not act like a merchant. But when it comes to all other events where the state is not in the first place, the national team, the state in one way or another, etc., it's a matter of free contract. I request that this item be deleted 2: "The broadcaster that has the exclusive right to transmit events covered by the list of articles 1 of this article is required to allow all other interested broadcasters to record and broadcast short reports from that event, for up to 90 seconds, which will contain both an authentic picture and a tone from such an event." You know, this is just something beneath all dignity. Someone gets an exclusive right, and then he's bound to give others a spoon. I think it would be best for you to rephrase or throw this out, see what you do with it. So far, we've had cases where state television gets the exclusive right to pass on some European or world football games, I don't even know what it was a few years ago, and then it's magically transmitted to one of the private televisions. I don't even know today how it was possible or what was in the question. Secondly, you are now preparing to give BK and Pink television national frequencies. Don't forget, Pink TV has taken over a lot of state equipment. Call Milan Topalovic's hearing, let him tell you. Two top Belgrade criminals took part in it, I don't have to mention names now, one is dead, one is already dead, but his successors took over. Whoever first enlightens property rights in Pink will earn a medal, I guarantee you. That's how much there and the owner and his co-owners cut in crime. The exclusive law, that's the point, should not be given to anyone by the Agency's advice, or agency. Why would the agency give exclusive rights, especially since it doesn't appear anywhere here that the agency will charge for it, you didn't predict it, or I may not have found it in the law. Is there that possibility of a charge? There's a voice from the O.R. Where, in what article? I don't remember that member, the agency's gonna charge for it. So why would the agency charge that exclusive right? She doesn't have any credit for playing our football team, or basketball, handball, water polo, any. What is the agency's merit, and on what basis could the agency be charging? Whoever has the technique for direct TV transmission must be able to achieve that transmission. It's the only fair thing in this case. Because you're putting too many dangerous weapons into the hands of the agency. The agency directly affects who stays on the media market and who fails. Whoever gets the exclusive right to carry something that is of state interest will have a huge number of ordered ads, videos, miracles. So it's going to have a huge commercial effect. Whoever you deny an exclusive right, or never has one, will simply shut down the shop immediately, will cease broadcasting the program. And this way, if it's free, it'll simply compete with each other on individual radios and TV stations, which will do it more efficiently and efficiently.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23213	The speaker, Deputy Prime Minister of Serbia, Mr. Zarko Korac, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23214	Madam President, honourable Members of Parliament, I think this is about another interpretation of this article 71. Proposal for a law on broadcasting. This is about the next interpretation. First, if something is of interest to all citizens of Serbia, then it is normal that the right to transfer can only get that radio and TV channel that covers the entire Republic. Otherwise, it can be reported that it is transmitting some medium, that it has an event, which covers only one narrow period, and if it is of interest to the citizens of Serbia, then they will obviously not be able to see it. So when it is said here "the agency will determine the list of events that are of interest to all citizens of Serbia, on which only the right of transmission can be achieved only by the emitter", you understand this in the plural, in the Serbian language. The emitter can be more, and then they have the right to get it. The broadcaster is further obliged here to grant these regional TV and radio stations the right to transmit events covered by the list, etc. 90 seconds. So this is just about the fact that the right to transfer events of interest to all citizens of Serbia can only be achieved by the emitter who, if I may say so, has national coverage.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23215	Thank you. People's MP Zoran Angelkovic came to the floor.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23216	Here the idea is correct, good, in the sense that there is a desire to cover the entire space for an important event. However, this is in conflict with the market. If an important event is such that it is of interest to the citizens of Serbia, it is also of interest to some regional television that may be much stronger and can pay, to contract with the owner of the event the broadcasting of the programme and then to give in to whoever has national television or who covers the entire space. Here, the story was about the football game, or the championship of Europe or someone that would be organized the next day -- it's impossible to own that event as an agency. The owner of the event is the one who was the general sponsor of the event or who organised the event, and he is the only one who can negotiate with whom the broadcasting of the programme and the transmission of the event will be granted. That's the thing. Otherwise, the intention is good, but it's not possible, it's in conflict with the owner of an event that invests in funds. Here, we have this last event in Novi Sad; so it's possible that the agency is of national interest and that it should be broadcast across Serbia; but there's someone invested two million dollars for this event and it has to draw money, and then he negotiates with television, with some distributor, the broadcaster, negotiates to sell that term, sell time, and it can only be Radio-Television Novi Sad, and then let him negotiate with another who he will broadcast to. That's the point.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23217	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 72 of the amendment was submitted by MP Živojin Stjepic. From what I understand, you said you wouldn't explain. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Adam Urosevic submitted to Article 73 of the amendment. Does a representative of the applicants of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Živojin Stjepić submitted to Article 73 of the amendment. Zivojin Stjepic has already explained this amendment. Is anyone else answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 74 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23218	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I ask that the entire article 74 be deleted. He talks about the quotas for independent productions, and here it is in the first position that institutions of the public broadcasting service of the Republic of Serbia and autonomous provinces, as well as broadcasters of local and regional communities, which are primarily in state ownership, are obliged to make independent radio and television productions available at least 10% of the total annual programme broadcasting time. You know, there's nothing more pointless about this law of yours I haven't read. What would they be obliged to do, and what independent radios and television stations would do so? I know what you're doing right now. The opposition is almost out of state television, on any national television, radicals especially, but that's why you're broadcasting VIN production, ANEM, the Network, etc. You think the next government will tolerate it, too? Well, it's gonna get lost completely, gone, how bad they've done to this people, but that's a political question. Legally, how can you oblige state television to broadcast someone else's program, or to make 10% available of your total time, how can you make a commitment? You're in advance obliged to put it on, so I guess it depends on the quality of the program. Why didn't you register these independent productions that came into consideration? You may now be multiplied by production, there may be hundreds and hundreds, according to which criteria this law applies, and which it does not apply. This is a pointless provision. In addition to Anem, Networks and VIN, there will be more who knows what, the white eagle, the Chetnic sabers, the head of the dead, etc. Independent production - by what criteria will you make a difference then? They're good, and these are bad, will that be a criterion? You like these, and you don't like them, and there's no objective criteria. Whoever has an independent production program means they don't broadcast, they just produce, they go to the market, they buy it -- they buy it, and they don't buy it -- they don't buy it. What would someone who has big television and enough of their own production broadcast other people's production, if not particularly interested in content, why would they? There's no reason. I know you're all intimate with me, but after the vote, I don't know what you'd do then. So I'm asking that this obligation of state media be erased, and by the way Vice President Koraq reacts, I think I've convinced him of that. Item 2 says, "Programmes older than five years can make up up to half of the quota referred to in Article 1." You're telling them now, those old programs can only be 1/5, and the new programs can be forced. What does it mean -- programs over five years old? You may have some of the best-quality programs there. I remember the first VIN shows, they were good, they broke down later, it was for unrecognizable, anti-Serbian hatred in huge quantities. I remember when I watched the VIN show, when they were extremely critical of social phenomena, their criticism was objective and ruthless, but they didn't run an anti-national policy, they were the first VIN shows. I'd love to watch every show they have from that period, and what they're doing right now, it's a miracle unseen. The third attitude says: "A total annual broadcast time does not include reruns, sports broadcasts, games, commercials and TV shopping, as well as news programs, unless it is about own news production." What does this mean, you're making a legal galathia here. Is this, Milka, funny? I see you're laughing, so I think what's in the law is funny to you. Why did you put this here in the first place? First you say, total annual time, and then you rule out a whole series of software content. As soon as you turn off all these software content, then it's not total time, then it's total time without this. Is that a good formulation? It's not. Then say, a time that doesn't belong to that and that, or find another formulation, this is the worst possible for you. Why are you making cartoons out of this legal text? You won't find the text more convincing, there won't be more transitivity in the Serbian public, someone in the West might like it, but you know, the one who doesn't know Serbia's language for sure and will be familiar with it through translation and will not notice these language finesse. Language finess are very important to all our written citizens and hold them. Don't do something that's so freakish, it spoils our language to get into every law on a regular basis. So, I insist once again that you give up this commitment of state radio and television stations to broadcast any production, except for that production they choose, because they want to broadcast, because it fits into the software concept, because that content is more quality than that which they normally produce or at least equal to the quality, so it pays them more to broadcast to others than to...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23219	I'm warning you, time's over.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23220	... They're making their own.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23221	Here's a word from Deputy Prime Minister Zarko Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23222	Madam President, honourable Members of the People, I think we need to look wider at the concept of independent production, not just as independent emissions related to political issues. Independent production is a very broad term, it can mean the production of programs at a university of art or a group of young people. It is true that this is a public service obligation and that there have been discussions about this percentage, how much to commit public service, but I would like to remind you that public service has other obligations to our public and citizens than private television. This is our attempt to help these small independent productions, to support the public service so much that it broadcasts them at 10%, to give young creators, directors, screenwriters, historians, art historians a chance to place and show the production to Serbian citizens. It is true that this is an obligation, it is true that it is mechanical, out of 10%, it can be five, eight, twelve, but this has been some opinion by the working group, that this is helping small independent productions in Serbia and that ultimately it will benefit our culture and viewers who watch public service, which must cover 90% of the territory, means that it meets 90% of the criteria of view in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. So I would really look at independent production much wider, not just as a political show, but as a culture show, science, social events, etc. I think there's going to be a lot more of them than just political ones, because people are usually tired of politics.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23223	No more reported under this amendment. Members of the 75th Amendment were submitted by MP Velimir Simonovic. I find that MP Velimir Simonovic has withdrawn the amendment to Article 75. Member of the 76th Amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Grubaski. The applicant for the amendment is not present. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 78 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23224	I can inform you right now, since you're asking a lot of questions, there's been a session of the United States Council's citizens and there's been an intense debate about my election as president of the Commission, so I don't have to go. Ladies and gentlemen, in Article 78, in addition to all these points that could be accepted, I've been making several interventions, even in place of point 2), as you've formulated it. The obligation of public broadcasting service operators to achieve general interest is said: "In order to achieve general interest in the field of public broadcasting services established by this law, in addition to the general obligations of broadcasters in relation to the software content of Article 68 of this Act, public broadcasting service operators are obliged to do so", which says in point 2) "produce and broadcast programmes intended for all segments of society, without discrimination, leading to this account especially on specific social groups such as children and youth, minority and ethnic groups, disabled, social and health threats etc.". I ask for a new point to be added behind this: "to ensure that parliamentary political parties or coalitions are represented in the programmes in proportion to the number of MPs they have in the National Assembly". Then I ask that point 7 be deleted where the annual plans provide for the broadcasting of independent production programmes, whose choice is based on a public competition conducted and with the conclusion of a written contract with an independent producer of more common market conditions, with the same argument with which I have just explained a similar amendment. I ask that item 10 be changed, which is now said to respect the traditional spiritual, historical, cultural, humanitarian and educational importance and the role of churches and religious communities in society. I ask that "respect the spiritual, historical, cultural, humanitarian and educational importance and the traditional role of the Serbian Orthodox Church, the Islamic Community, the Catholic Church, the Slovak evangelist churches, the Jewish community, the Reform Christian Church and the Evangelical Christian Church". These are the only traditional religious communities in our country, these are the only churches in the right sense of words and they are the only ones that can be treated... What's the matter? (Livorad Rakovic: You don't know, historical.) )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23225	Please don't throw away the speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23226	You're the only one who gets it, that's all. These are, therefore, the only institutions that can be treated by churches in the right sense of words, but you are constantly avoiding one general law to regulate their status. If we had a consensus on the belief that these churches that we can teach in our schools are religious, I am convinced that we would reach a consensus in the adoption of a general law on churches and religious communities and that this question is not asked at all, that it is known when the church and the religious community are said it is these seven. They're traditional churches, churches in the right sense of words. Everything else or no real historical foundation in our space, such as some Asian creeds, such as Hindu, Buddhist, Shintoist, etc. or they are newly combined sects that are associated with the social character and do social destruction. So I'd like to ask you again publicly to accept these well-intentioned suggestions and to adapt this law to real social needs and ensure our media scene from the breakthrough of something that is probably the most difficult danger that can happen to us after drug abuse. I don't know what's more dangerous for a society today than these religious sects. There's probably no more serious danger. As it is difficult to treat people from drug abuse, it is almost even harder to treat them when they succumb to the influence of some of the most dangerous destructive religious sects. In addition to drug use, parapsychological skills, hypnosis, and so forth, and who once succumbs to their influence find it difficult to release and return as a normal person to society.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23227	No more reported for the word on this amendment. The 78th amendment was filed by MP Velimir Simonovic. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? You won't discuss it. Do any of the other authorized participants want the word in the debate? No, I don't. ) On Article 78 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Kovacevic. He's not there. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 78th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Adam Urosevic. The word has a representative of the amendment's applicants, MP Petar Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23228	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, MPs of the Serbian Unity Party have submitted an amendment to Article 78 at point 7 and it is in direct connection with the already submitted amendment to point 9 of Article 4 of this law, where we have suggested that the word "independent" be replaced by "own-minded", and we have also suggested that, after the words "conditions", the point be deleted and the words "confirmed by the Agency" be added. I would not like to re-explain this amendment on the word "independent" or "independent", but rather speaking of it, and I suggest that, if you adopt the amendment to Article 4(9) of this legislation, this amendment to Article 78(7). At the same time, we propose, as I said, that two new words be added after the word "conditions", because we believe that these contracts concluded with independent producers should also be confirmed by the agency. For these reasons, we believe that the amendment to the Serbian Unity Party is acceptable and I suggest that you accept this amendment when voting.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23229	Does anyone else sign up for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 79 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23230	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask my amendment to underline the importance of respect for the principles of impartiality and objectivity in treating different political interests and different subjects. The rest of the text is too high, because it is located in one of the former members. All this about freedom and pluralism of public opinion, etc., has already been treated once. This prevention of any form of racial, religious, national, ethnic or other intolerance or hatred is already regulated by law. One law does not tolerate the same question being treated or banned in two or three places. That's why it's too high. This member would above all be great to express what I tried to install in the previous member, and for which I also submitted the amendment, to all political parties and to make sure that they were parliamentary political parties, parliamentary political entities. Here, where we have 200 or 300 registered political parties, it is pointless that everything applies, so it should be understood that they are parliamentary political parties. Going further in that direction, it would be good to determine how much space that is. This should be proportionate to their participation in the parliament of the state, if it is a programme with a national frequency. And if it is regional and local, then according to the representation of certain parties at the level of these regions within municipalities that would consist roughly of a frequency region at local level. Now you see one more thing, as far as these regions are concerned, that's where the regional frequencies have to be determined. This law doesn't treat, and it would have to be what you missed. I have to admit, I didn't notice it at first either, but only later. When frequencies are allocated, you have indicated that four types of frequencies are: national, autonomous provinces, regional and local. You haven't defined those regions. I suppose those regions would be within both the AP and the rest of Serbia. Therefore, this must, above all, be specified by geographical principles; where geographical conditions provide for the possibility of broadcasting or non-emissioning of programmes, this should have been specified to some members of this law. When it comes to political parties, your whole law falls into the water and the work of the agencies, if you don't provide for a change in the current state of the state of the TV stations. If you think public television is just a means of persecuting the opposition, and those opposition that you can't buy, blackmail, that you can't take under your molds, then know, it can't take long. Secondly, I know there have been periods in this country where the opposition has been severely persecuted by state media. I remember that time from 12 years ago. I remember when some who today were the loudest in the alleged struggle for democratic freedoms and rights were the fiercest persecutors of any free thought. I remember Gordana Susha from the '80s. She was the editor-in-chief of state television. There's no dissident who could ever get into any program. I had to get Milos Markovic, a journalist you probably all know, to take him to the Library Club, to get him drunk, to eat, to get him to publish in the last minute of the diary that one book was banned, because it was very appropriate for me to get the ban on publicity. That's the kind of time it was. I can't have those people of that time, who were fiercely persecute the opposition, taking our lead today and assessing what democracy and freedom are and what isn't. I'll tell you one more secret, that same Gordana Susha was headed by...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23231	Please return to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23232	It's about the equality of political parties.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23233	Of course, but what does Gordan Susha have to do with it? Please return to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23234	There is. Look, she's one of the entities that's preventing it in society today, and she's got a regimeal support in it. She led a team of state television in Australia to record the building and monument of Draža Mihajlovic, where Vuk Draskovic and Danko Popovic gave a lecture to Serbian immigrants, and to make only a contribution to what the building looks like, as the monument looks...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23235	I'm warning you, you're off topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23236	I didn't walk away. It is about pluralism, political pluralism and its respect by broadcasting media. It's very connected to this problem. I'll last longer than you, don't worry. So this should be made even better by law to guarantee it. What you need to worry about now and what you need to do is guarantee the right opposition. Don't, like a socialist, ignore the rights of the opposition, so when you get caught up in such a fate as to be an opposition again, then you're a hook, what's on us. Make the law. I've been on RTS all day, because I can take all day to stand by the assembly speaker and explain my amendments, and I hope I don't have to in particular convince you how much attention I've prepared for them, not just me, but my closest associates.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23237	Let me just warn you about the time-out.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23238	I'm done. Make sure the treatment of the opposition in this law is as you wish it to be your treatment when you soon become the opposition again.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23239	Okay. Thank you. Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted to Article 79 by MP Velimir Simonovic. Please, MP Velimir Simonovic, submitor of the amendment to Article 79. Proposal for a law on broadcasting.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23240	I'll read it right here. I suggest adding two more points to article 79. Item 2 would say this - as soon as the Government provides access to public electronic communications for its official communications, a certain part of the programme must be automatically allocated to opposition groups immediately. The editor-in-chief is obliged to allow all parliamentary opposition parties to reach out for a government official statement. Item 3 is like before, he only foresees criminal measures for the editor. This first part of Article 2 I simply prescribed from the recommendations of the Council of Europe. Since the goal of Yugoslavia is to get into the Council of Europe as soon as possible, in September or possibly by the end of the year, then I think we need to accept this. Let me tell you frankly, the MPs of the Democratic Center, the four of us here, we will vote for this law, only out of this national interest. One of the conditions for us to enter the Council of Europe is that we have a law on broadcasting, alongside some other laws and conditions. However, no matter how these amendments go, we will eventually vote for the law out of this national interest, as I said. I hope there's little chance that the government might accept some of my amendments. I urge you to look again at my amendments before the vote and support some of these amendments. They're going to, I'm deeply convinced, fix this law that otherwise has a lot of drawbacks. This concludes my participation, so I won't report for these last two, three amendments. I'm staying with them, of course. I'm just not going to explain them.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23241	I thank the People's MP. People's MP Vojislav Seselj, as president of the SRS parliamentary group, spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23242	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, how serious a problem this is is is the fact that the amendment submitted by the MP who belongs to the government is very acceptable to us from the opposition. It is a rare copy, one copy among the amendments, and a rare example among MPs for the seriousness of approach. You see, it's such a delicate question of equal or equal representation of all political entities in the media, that it should be so precise to formulate and efficacious that it is known exactly how much anyone in one day, in one week, will be present on national television programmes, informing the public about what I want to inform. On the one hand, you banned political parties from owning radio and television stations. On the other hand, there is no obligation on state broadcasting media to treat opposition parties equally in their information programmes. You leave, according to this too broad formulation, to be a matter of appraisal of the editor-in-chief. I've had a case that I've often had a team of state television coming to a press conference in the past few months, but they never broadcast anything from that conference. They come to record what I said, so they watch their editors or someone in power. I can't explain otherwise that those from the Kosutnjak are coming to Zemun to record what I'm saying at the press conference. I think sometimes, maybe the police are sending that team, and they're acting like they're from state television. What else can I think, when our conferences are never in any of the public television logs, ever? (loud from the O.R.): You're not interesting. I know you don't find me interesting, but I'm talking about principles here, not what's interesting to you. Just don't forget, and you'll probably do it again someday. All that you do now can one day reap, as you sow. Don't forget. While the SRS was in power for a short time, we never did anything like that. We opposed the irresponsible programme policy of state television, and our representatives, Tomislav Nikolic and Aleksandar Vukic, resigned for membership in the Management Board for this reason. We only punished the libel in the media and re-emissioned foreign spy television and radio programs, what they give you for free now to re-emission everywhere. That was forbidden.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23243	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? The word is made by MP Ivan Andric, rapporteur of the committee responsible for culture and information.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23244	The Committee did not accept this amendment, I must say, for several reasons, fully understanding the idea proposed by Mr Simonovic and fully agreeing with this idea. Of course, we don't think this is a member to be dealt with, therefore, to insert such a particular thing as a government official statement. It's just that it's not this law at all. This is the subject of the public information law. As for the recommendations of the Council of Europe, I have them in my hand and I can't find that recommendation anywhere. It's just that we're trying to respect, of course, for the same reasons you said. I agree with your idea, but as far as I know, in these working versions of the public information law, the subject of public information is exactly what you're talking about, and when that law is passed, it will stand there.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23245	The word has the People's MP Velimir Simonovic, right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23246	Ladies and gentlemen, the recommendation here specifically says, point 67 of Guideline No 21 of 1996: "As soon as the government provides access to public electronic communications for its official communications, a certain part of the programme must be automatically allocated to opposition groups", etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23247	The word is from MP Zoran Angelkovic, the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23248	I think Professor Simonovic, not only because he writes in the recommendations of the Council of Europe, is absolutely right and we support the amendment. In addition, it cannot be solved by the public information law for the simple reason that it says here in the headline: "Special obligations in the production and transmission of the information programme", which refers to broadcasting, precisely the system that Serbian citizens finance. If Serbian citizens finance this system (and this is the next member, you will probably adopt it, regardless of what we are against) and if a citizen pays every month 210 dinars and does not accept or support governmental views, and this public service publishes only governmental views and is not obliged to publish other political entities, more specifically opposition positions, then it takes money from that citizen who disagrees with that stance and does not hear another political stance. Of course, here he says he treats different political interests. This "different political interests" can be interpreted as being the attitudes of NGOs, even to say -- it is satisfied with the citizens' interest that different interests are announced; but they are not the interests of those who actually have political support for Serbia's citizens, and I guess it is important what the citizens of Serbia think. After all, Serbian citizens are asking to hear what they think they voted for, which they have given appropriate political support. Let's say that this support is five, 20 or 50% proportional and broadcast in broadcasting, in that system that is connected to citizens, who are funding citizens. When it comes to commercial radio-televisions, they will take care of it because if they do not respect citizens' opinions and different political attitudes, then they will not be listened to by all citizens who have different political views, and here they have to watch and listen to them because they are paid, whether they are fulfilling their wishes or not, more specifically whether they are fulfilling the desire to hear other political attitudes.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23249	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. ) The 79th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Rajko Baralić, Toma Busetic and Bora Stanimirovic. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? The word has been made by MP Rajko Baralic, on behalf of the applicants of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23250	Mrs. Komic, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected journalists, special obligations in the production and transmission of the information programme are defined in Article 79. On behalf of the SPS, several MPs have tabled an amendment and we suggest that the last sentence in this position be deleted. So behind the words, "or hate," to delete this sentence, and otherwise it says, "or impatience with regard to sexual commitment". Since there have been several different views on this, I would first of all like to express the political stance arising from the political agenda. The SPS advocates a healthy family, and we do not want this inaccurate formulation of "tempercity in terms" to be interpreted as a possibility of promoting atypical sexuality. We don't mind anyone's personal attitude about this, but we do have a problem with, say, having kids without a known parent. That's what the feminist movement is for. We're against the adoption of children in families made by spouses of the same sex. We don't enter their personal rights, it doesn't affect their personal freedoms or civil rights, but we don't think it's normal and it's not good to have that kind of affirmation on the national frequency. I especially point out that even now, according to the current regulations, I'm talking about the feminist movement, the feminists, what I'm talking about. I grew up in a family where my father died when I was five; I know how to be a Jeopardy in a family without a father, and I can't understand that anyone is a normal advocate, nor that they can get a chance to promote the birth of children without a known parent. This is caution, this is not a threat to any right; this is primarily an attempt to, in line with the tradition that needs to be respected and the demands of new time that we understand, affirm the family as a significant pillar of every normal society, and I hope that all political parties advocate for such society.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23251	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 80 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23252	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I ask only in Article 80 to delete position 1, the most serious position that reads: "For the financing of the activity of public broadcasting service institutions relating to the achievement of the general interest set out in this law, a radio-television subscription is paid". You see, that subscription has been paid since when there's been state television, or state radio. And in 1993, while there was still no mention of the cancellation of the subscription completely, the idea appeared to change the way the payment was made, so instead of the incasant going door to door, as was the case before, the law was incorporated to use the electricity bill as a means of payment and TV subscription. Many opposition parties have made a huge public noise about it. I know that many of you have accused me of having radicals, among other things, voted in favour of such a legal amendment. (Glass: That's what you suggested. That's not true. It wasn't our proposal. Oh, that's not true. Don't make it up. [[Sagar.]] That's not true. The government suggested it. That's not true. Several months after that, when state television changed its programming orientation and left the opposition in its information-political programmes, the Serbian Radical Party came out with an initiative to completely abolish the subscription. The first political party to submit a proposal to the National Assembly to amend the law on the abolition of TV subscription was the Serbian Radical Party in autumn 1993. Our legal project was included in the agenda, however, the first item of the agenda was a proposal to vote on the government of Nikola Sainovic. The session lasted several days and, meanwhile, Slobodan Milosevic disbanded parliament and called new elections. After that, on several occasions we launched such an initiative. Last time in October 2000. The initiative was acceptable to all opposition parties. Somewhere in 1994-1995, along with other opposition parties, we went with such an initiative. It's the time of the parallel parliament, if you remember, when some of the irresponsible moves led to its destruction, but that's already another question. In 2000, you cut the TV subscription, and now, after two years, you reintroduce it. What happened in the meantime? In the meantime, you've raised all your tax rates to the sky. In the meantime, you invented taxation and what was never taxed before. So, to an incredible extent, you've raised your citizens' taxes, and now, as a cream on cake, you're paying them back and paying for a TV subscription that's actually seven times that of 2000. Then it was 21 dinars, and now it's 210 dinars. By the rate of stamps, it's now seven times more expensive. Of course, many politicians are in vain to call for consistency. But here's the other problem. All indicators of economic institutes suggest a rapid decline in the standard of living of the population. The nominal salary increases for those who are still in employment, but the wages lose the price race, continuously for these two years, and the real standard is lower. (Glasses: Is that a theme? That's not true. You who say it's not true tell it to the people. Tell that to the people. Tell that to the court's administrative staff, for example. I hear from their mouths that many of them have a salary of 3,000 dinars. (Glass: That's not true. That's not true? That's not true? (Glass: When you were in government, there were five marks. ) At the time of the five marks I was not in the government, I was in opposition, and for those five marks could be bought much more than today for 100 or 200 marks. Many resent. Yes, yes. But compare what you could buy in 2000 for 100 marks. The goods can't be bought for 300 or 400 marks today. That's the range of prices. You are now introducing this tax, and you are ashamed to say immediately in the law that this fee will again be charged with a number, but you have figured out, we will get to that member of the law, let the state television conclude a contract with one of the public utility companies; it will certainly be the Elektroprivreda of Serbia, because there is no one else who is able to do it at Serbia's level.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23253	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted to Article 80 by MP Velimir Simonovic. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? Here's a word from the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Zarko Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23254	Dear Mrs Comic, honourable MPs, there is no doubt that the introduction of a TV subscription, as far as our country's citizens are concerned, will be extremely unpopular, given that they have so far had a free TV programme, although, as you know, it has financed from the Republika Srpska budget, which means that it has also been paid by all citizens. But in some ways it wasn't visible. The reason is obvious. First of all, the relatively modest standard of living and the modest income that most of the country's citizens have. However, I would ask that no parallels be made here with what was previously paid. If necessary, I'll explain it in three sentences. First, earlier the subscription was automatically linked to the electricity bill and it grew as the electricity bill grew. (Glasses: No. Yes, it was mostly that way. So he was changing the amount. The second thing is that Elektrodistribution remains in debt to RTS large funds and unfortunately that debt cannot be paid back to RTS. So RTS has a great deal of claims from Elektrodits because Electrodistribution has kept a great deal of these funds to itself, but since it owes everyone else, then, of course, it can't be expected to pay for it. Secondly, you came into an absurd situation that blind people paid a subscription for television, because it was practically very difficult to make an exception. They're very clearly numbered here. I'd like to warn you about Article 82, where a lot of it can be excluded from paying all those people's subscription where there's still grounds to exclude, social protection institutions, people with disabilities, etc. Please, it says here, and it was, to put it that way, our moral obligation. Last time, I asked the question - whether informing our country's citizens should be in the hands of those who don't care about the subscription, who have enough money and will be able because of their technical equipment and because they have enough journalists to implement the programme, to take over some of the national channels; whether it's okay for our citizens to depend entirely on information, both in television and in radio information, from just a few such people, a group of people or institutions of that type, or whether this service is needed. Citizens who finance this service can be reasonably certain that we are going slowly at a time in which they will achieve their wishes, although there are also legitimate objections to the opposition that there is still no quite correct display of their activities; so we are gradually coming to a time that will be governed by good customs, correctness, but also by these legal proposals. I just want to say - only the existence of a public service and only its financial independence guarantee as many citizens of Serbia the right to be informed as people should be informed in a civilized world and democratic society. We don't have another solution. I felt it might be good for political reasons to continue to finance from the budget, or budget reserves, because then citizens have the impression that they are not paying, but I must say that in Europe it is a practice to fund it directly by citizens. This famous BBC, which, as I would say, often quote (whose annual budget is significantly higher than the budget of the Republic of Serbia, just so much, for comparison) is also being financed from the subscription, except that this subscription is paid at an annual level and I would not even like to tell you how big it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23255	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? The word has the mandated representative of the SPS parliamentary group, MP Zoran Angelkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23256	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, when you enter an election campaign and ask for citizens' support for your political option, then you come out with appropriate political views. Your political views were that the subscription for RTS should in no way be taken from the citizens. That's the point. Is that when you cheated on the citizens, or now? We didn't think that TV could work without the help of the citizens, and that's not the point. And of course, if it works with the help of the citizens, then it's also a matter of obligation to respect what we just talked about, to respect what they've advocated, to respect different political views. But if that's the case, then we have to go out to the citizens and say -- then when we said that Serbian citizens shouldn't pay the subscription, we didn't know what the ratio of power is and what it takes to make a state TV work. We thought that those who promised us millions of dollars from abroad, donations for the operation of RTS, will give, and now we realize that they will not give anything; this is what Serbian citizens should give, and here we are introducing a subscription. After all, all these months, it has been said that state television will recover and improve from abroad. Of course, is it by any chance that someone here is more free now? It is always necessary to find a way to free all those who are a social category, and that is not at all controversial; only, of course, when we come to the subject of the level of the subscription then we will discuss in particular how high the subscription today is possible for Serbian citizens to withstand that amount of subscription. One thing is the need for RTS and broadcasting the next day, and another is what is the optimal possibility of citizens in the economic situation they are in, that they can actually pay a TV subscription.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23257	The word is made by the People's MP Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23258	Dear Mrs Comic, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, of course, rejected this amendment; there he prevailed that no matter what the opposition MPs said, two things were needed to achieve the independence of the public service. The first thing is that its governing structure in organisational and programming terms is independent. So, not to be appointed by the government. The other thing is that this facility is financially independent. So he doesn't get money from the finance minister. These two things are only possible for this reason, because this concept should be closed if a subscription is introduced. Don't tell us this subscription is the same thing as three years ago. At that time, the RTS Management Board was chaired by the Minister of Information, the vice-presidents of your parties. Today on the board of directors, independent people are sitting by authority. When this law is introduced, the Governing Board will no longer even appoint a government. So that's the key difference. It's about the financial independence of public service, and this isn't state television anymore, read the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23259	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Adam Urosevic. Do any of the applicants of the amendment want a word? The word has a folk MP Milos Lukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23260	The Honorable Presidency, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when it comes to Article 80 of the Soviet Union, has one principled objection and we have tried through this amendment to help in some way make this text make sense. With this amendment, we have proposed that Article 80 paragraph 2 point 4 - 6 be deleted, and for the following reasons - this amendment excludes the possibility of possible abuse of the proposed way of financing the public broadcasting service, based on these activities listed here. When it comes to public broadcasting services, it is necessary to arrange its financing in a clear and precise manner. In paragraph 1, this is precisely defined and is said to finance the activities of public broadcasting service institutions, which relate to the achievement of the general interest established by this law, radio and TV subscription are paid. The citizens' reaction to this topic is already known and that only the introduction of radio and TV subscriptions has been accepted. But that's not the subject of our amendment. In order to carry out other jobs from their activity, public broadcasting service institutions acquire funds from: production and broadcasting of programmes; production and sale of audiovisual programmes etc. After this we have, in our opinion, three pointless ways, which are: the organisation of concerts and other events; the performance of other activities in accordance with the statute, and from other sources in accordance with the law. When we take a closer look at these three ways, none of them are accurate or clear. When it comes to other ways laid down by law, we have no way of funding elsewhere, no matter what the law has 151 members. The performance of other actions in accordance with the statute -- again, it is related to other regulations, and it is also pointless, so we think that this is another example that this text is overcrowded with formulas that are unnecessary and excessive. It could have been said eventually - from TV subscriptions and otherwise, in accordance with the positive regulations, not in this ignorant way that only causes confusion. We note once again that this creates the possibility of and unfair competition and the possibility to abuse the position of a public information service. So this facility is monopolised, compared to the other participants in this process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23261	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23262	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS absolutely disagrees with this amendment. It would be pointless to make it impossible for state television to be involved in the organisation of concerts and other events. This can be a very important source of income and state television should help organise it and, in fact, deal with the organisation of events that will become events of traditional character. For example, events where competitions will be held for best folk music, original, newly combined, fun music, then competitions in various other types of art, etc. That's what would be very good at it all. On the other hand, she doesn't need to be limited to part-time work. Who knows what in practice can come out of the area of her work, which would be very lucrative, which would provide her with profit and improve her economic position. You see, in 1993, we almost had no private television at all. I remember it was Palma, Studio B played private, and he didn't know after two years he'd take it back into state property. You took it, I didn't take part in it. I demonstrated against it. Your vice-president, Covic, put it into life, so what was already privatised, where the workers took action, he returned to state property; and these are your reforming potentials from the past. But here you justify why you are now introducing a subscription, so you say you have exceptions, blind, disabled 100%, etc. All these exceptions have existed before. It used to be a category of the population that was released from payment of the subscription. Look at the old law, and you'll see for yourself. Earlier the subscription could have made sense because there was only state television, so anyone who bought television could only watch a public television program. That subscription made sense; who has a TV pay, and who doesn't have a TV doesn't pay. Now a man buys a TV and can opt for, has a huge number of domestic programs, 17 or 18 are seen in Belgrade, perhaps already 20 programs, and someone would have to watch state television. But now a man puts on a satellite antenna, so only a satellite program can watch, won't watch state television, and he has to pay a subscription. If there was ever a reason to introduce a subscription, it was before, when state television had a monopoly. Now that state television has no monopoly, you can't explain the introduction of a subscription; if it's parafiscal income, it has to be accounted for in that way.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23263	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group, Mr Zoran Angelkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23264	This is the programme that you offered citizens in September 2000, and it says - boards of directors, directors of state media will be elected by the Assembly. That's what you suggested to the public, not someone else. Read it yourself. If this amendment were to be accepted, we would thus challenge the right of a public difusing organisation, i.e. this media to take care of their income. It should not rely solely on the revenue from the subscription, and thus challenge the possibility of organising another production, having its production in the right sense and that it can collect a significant source of income from it. The more it gets, the more it makes sense to be a smaller subscription. If the right to public dysfunctional organisation to organise concerts, to organise production in general, to organise other programmes etc., to sell its programme, then it would literally lead me to the position of a public dysfunctional organisation that it is constantly asking whoever is making the decision to subscribe to increase it, instead of reducing it, and I guess it should be a tendency for the subscription to disappear. Of course, we don't think we should do it at all today, but the tendency should be to make the subscription disappear like that. The key difference is that it's 7:1 - then there's one mark, now it's seven marks, so there's going to be one citizen's subscription.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23265	National MP Milos Lukic, a replica, and the basis for the replica is wrong interpretation.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23266	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I just want us to express ourselves precisely so that my reporting is not misused if what is not true is actually said. Our parliamentary group did not aim to limit the possibility of public service, or that broadcasting organisations are engaged in these activities. We just pointed out that it was done in a very ignorant way and that there are some works listed, such as the organization of concerts etc. If it is already done in accordance with the law, during the establishment of these organisations their statutes may register all those activities for which the competent national authorities grant authorisation, so we do not believe that this was necessary to classify it in this Article. In that sense, our intervention actually applies. That's how we reacted. Therefore, we did not want to say that broadcasting organisations should not deal with other actions, but that this should be in line with positive regulations. I note once again, that it is not only in accordance with this law, because this law really does not provide for any other means of funding. It's just for more precise expression.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23267	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 81 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Vojislav Seselj. Are you going to use the entire time to discuss the amendment, six minutes? Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23268	Yeah. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there's a very large member of 81 here. I suggest you delete it entirely, and why? Because this article 81 sets out how to pay the subscription, and since I have already suggested that a mandatory subscription be abolished, it should be thrown out of the law. I expect the government to consider, in the meantime, not to expose itself to the extra rage of the people, but to have done a lot of exposure so far, and to give up that subscription, that funding of state television will attach to the budget, and other ways of getting money. It says here that radio owners and TV receivers have a obligation to pay a subscription to public broadcasting services. So, it's about a number of these services, two services, they're Radio - Television Belgrade and Novi Sad. So, it doesn't agree with our concept that I have elaborated in a large number of amendments, that it should be urgently privatised by TV Novi Sad and that it should be placed on the market, by having this initial privilege of getting a frequency for the entire Vojvodina territory and possibly for another part of Serbia, van Vojvodina, perhaps Belgrade, the Smederjev region, etc. Furthermore, it says here that a single radio-television subscription is paid in the same amount for the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia. That doesn't make sense now either. First, because there are parts of the territory of the Republic of Serbia on which no channel of state television can be seen today. Secondly, what viewers don't just watch the state television program but watch different televisions, so if there's already a payment obligation, then it would be incomparably cellulous that the citizens of the country's own programme will pay; they don't like the state television, they won't look at its programs, but they like some local private TV, so they say -- if I have to, I'd rather fund it, I'd rather pay for her program. That makes more sense, if there's already a subscription, then I'm a citizen who's depending on which TV his money is going to go to. Furthermore, in some places more programs are seen, and in some less. There is no point in all paying equally: a Belgrade citizen who watches 18 or 20 programmes and a Black Treva citizen who can barely one, possibly two programmes can catch on his receiver, and not every citizen can, depending on what area of the Black Treva municipality lives on. People of Black Grass - why are you making fun of it? Would you like some civil society? All members of civil society are citizens. I think there are much smarter citizens of Black Grass than MPs in this congregation building, and I'm convinced of that, and that can be checked, both more educated and intelligent, etc. The 3rd is said that the subscription is paid by households and advances that are linked to collective antennas. You see, if there's a collective antenna, who's the one who's capable of checking whose receiver is all connected to the collective antenna? I can't even get the electro-prived inspections to determine who's connected to electricity or other people's numbers, so somebody else is paying for electricity, or they're connecting directly to the network, and now you're going to find out who's involved in the collective antenna. Hard; maybe you can, you're experts. (Ivan Andric: He has devices. Devices? No antenna devices, no antenna plug-in. There's no device that can detect it. (Ivan Andric: There is a baby. ) Baby Popovic, does Icon have that device? Okay, you better use that budget money that you've equipped Vladimir Popovic Baby's technique to train state television. Take my time, I've already decided to speak to you by 10:00 tonight, and if it goes on after 10:00, I'm out of here, so you're on my own. It's a good thing you've freed the households from paying more subscriptions for multiple receivers, because of course it couldn't have occurred to you to go home to control as many television cameras or radio cameras as possible. (Ivan Andric: Planned, then gave up. ) You planned, so you gave up, here I am corrected by Ivan Andric. I know what you planned. You will count men and teeth by mouth, and prescribe one kind of tax for natural teeth and another for artificial teeth. You're all capable of it. Then, hotels and motels pay subscription to every 10 rooms equipped with television or radio receivers. Let's rephrase it this way -- that hotels only pay for the days when their rooms are rented. You have a mass of hotels where the rooms are empty all year round. There's no one in the rooms, there's a TV set, it doesn't turn on, but there's a subscription. Furthermore, the obligation to pay the subscription occurs from the first day of the next month from the day of purchase of the receiver. Time's up? I'll continue when some other amendment is at this point.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23269	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted to Article 81 by MP Branislav Grubaski. The Committee on Culture and Information and a representative of the motionors at the meeting of the Committee adopted this amendment with a correction, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment with the correction is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment with the correction has become an integral part of the draft law. National MPs Radojko Petrovic, Zoran Andjelkovic, Velimir Zivojinovic, Milos Nesovic, Rajko Baralic, Nebojsa Jovic and Dusan Cvetkovic submitted together to the 81st amendment. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? The word has a folk MP, Radojko Petric.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23270	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, on behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia with a group of MPs, I have tabled an amendment to amend Article 81. Article 81 regulates the obligation to pay radio-television subscription by radio owners and TV receivers. In the position of this Member, the Government has proposed that households, whether owned by two or more radios or TV receivers, other than receivers in a motor vehicle, pay a subscription for only one radio or television receiver at the same address. It’s okay and it’s a result that households can have five and more radios and TV receivers and pay a subscription for only one radio or TV receiver, if it’s at the same address. On the other hand, the household can only have two radios or television receivers, or one television receiver and one radio receiver, but if they are at different addresses then they will pay a double subscription. This is wrong, and the government's proposal in this section has a fundamental lack of resources and needs to undergo a change. It is known that we have a small number of wealthy citizens and that they have more villas or cottages next to houses and better apartments. It's okay for them to, if we could figure out who they are, pay the subscription to those double addresses. However, there are far more citizens, primarily workers, who have small incomes and modest apartments with one radio, even with only one radio or receiver, but also in the country, have inherited old family homes, where they leave from time to time, but now they have to pay for the subscription and for that radio receiver that they have in the country. It would obviously be an injustice to accept the government's proposal that wealthy citizens, however much they have television or radio cameras, pay one subscription, and that poor worker who may have one radio receptionist in the country, in an old house that he is holding and has not yet completely left, to pay a double subscription. It's really hard to explain to citizens, it's hard to explain to a large number of citizens who usually barely make ends meet. Since it is difficult to provide precise information on who is wealthy and poor, the amendment proposes to amend the Government's proposal and that the household, the owner of two or more radios or TV receivers, except for the receivers in the motor vehicle, pays the subscription for only one radio or TV receiver, whether he owns them at one or more addresses. The adoption of amendments to a far greater extent provides for the fairness and social equality of all citizens, as they would otherwise be paid mainly by poor citizens. For this reason, I believe it is truly fair for this amendment to be accepted and it would be good for you, Mr. Vice-President of the Government, to accept this amendment on behalf of the Government, so that we know when the declaration that the amendment has been accepted by the Government.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23271	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? The word is from MP Vojislav Seselj, president of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23272	This is the same member my amendment refers to. You see how pointless this member is to you. You here, in a few ways, obliging citizens, all natural and legal persons to report the purchase of receivers, and what those you found in this law will do and already have receivers. He can't report the purchase now, if he's already 20 years old. You didn't predict whether he was going to report it or if you were going to assume he did? (Marian Risticevic: The neighbour will report.) Or the neighbor will report that she has a receiver. This is where anyone who has a receiver before the law enters into force is esculpated. According to Article 81, the law applies only to those who buy a radio or television receiver in the future, and now there will be two categories: a category of those who may have some shops record that they are buyers of television, so they will be forced to report those who will buy a TV on black or enter it from abroad, so no one will record it. What am I telling you about this? I suggest you have too many insecure people doing this legal text. In the first position, the owners are said to have a payment obligation. My payment obligation lasts from the moment I get an account, and where's your records of who in this country has a TV. Do you have that record? When these censuses were now listing the population, did they have to write TVs there? I've seen for large and horned cattle that there's a section, not even small cattle were listed, as far as I know, chickens, etc. Maybe they were writing cars, I'm not 100% sure, because they didn't ask me, but if they were writing TVs, I don't believe it. (Sarko Steps: You cannot be used. ) These data cannot be used, and televisions are not listed. I don't think you'd stand it if you didn't use that data, only if you needed it. However, televisions are not even listed, so this article of 81st is pointless to you. You dropped his main mark, his main content. You know, I've been able to teach you patiently for three days, and I might be willing and in the future, but I don't think I'm going to be free, because this has really been a class of legal technique and legal normation for hours. I don't believe that as listeners, you are qualified to exercise the perception of new knowledge, or that knowledge has been so much that it is absolutely out of the question that you fully understand and accept it and rule it. I suggest you, since you didn't know this member to formulate, to completely eliminate it, to cancel the TV subscription. I know what you're up to, you'll be smarter than the previous government, so you won't charge a tax, because if anyone...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23273	Three minutes 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23274	... There's a number on the farm. But it's too small a loss, too small a problem compared to the problem you're putting yourself here.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23275	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 82 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? He has the word, your amendment to Article 82, MP Vojislav Seselj. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: I thought it was someone else, not to answer. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23276	Ladies and gentlemen, my amendment requires that Article 82 be deleted, but of course, in the event that article 81 and Article 80 are deleted first. There's no telling what's been accepted yet. The government hasn't spoken yet. How do you know in advance? I guess the government comes forward when we get it in writing, right? Therefore, if the Government does not accept the erasure of Articles 1 and 81, then it is good to remain in Article 82, because it already gives exemption from paying one category, a very narrow category of population. It's not bad for them to at least be released from that payment, so on this point I wouldn't speak for much longer, except to remind you that there is no such technique that can carry out your will precisely in life in terms of this payment. It is easy to find now who will be freed, there are disabled 100%, persons who have lost their hearing and vision, etc. As far as other categories of population are concerned, you will simply get into a situation that is inconclusive to you. You don't think those people who were thinking in 1993 about the bill that was being transferred to an electric number were so stupid that they didn't know it was pointless to charge a TV fee on a number at the address where no one lives or where there are no TVs. There's no way to control it. It's instructions to cancel the subscription at all, because you don't have enough inspectors to go from house to house now and control who has the TV. You don't. Citizens who already have television won't go to apply for their lives, I guarantee you that. First of all, there's a commitment only to anyone who just buys a TV to report it, and whoever already has a TV doesn't have the obligation to sign up and won't volunteer to sign up for you, which they would do. Even if you give him a ticket, he won't do it. Don't forget, you were in Nis convincing the people that they didn't need electricity to pay. The people believed you, ripped you up, burned your electricity bills. When the government changed, now their debts are the greatest. They don't have the bread to eat, and now they have to pay their bills in a few years. Now you'll have such a situation that your citizens won't apply, they won't pay you and you'll see in half a year that you'll have to return state television to the budget, because the bill will be zero. We'll give the TVs on credit. ) Give the TV on credit, you can do it all, you can share TVs for free, and after taxing. That's a smart idea. You know, in America when you're looking for a phone connection, companies, and between them there's competition, they bring you a free phone, just to be their subscriber. In Serbia, it won't be for long, but you won't succeed in this law either, you won't be able to pay, there's no way to convince the people...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23277	Will you use the other three minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23278	Yeah. I'm not worried, I'm just showing the people how your law is missed, and of course I'm putting a little bit of a covert way to know the people who are the smartest kind of behavior, but I'm not inviting them to behave like that. I'm not, I'm not; just because I'm letting it know that there's a possibility of breaking the law doesn't mean I'm calling at the same time for law enforcement. (Milka Marinkovic: So. ) Milka, hey, study this little, Milka, Kalzen "General Theory of State and Rights", Milka (Milka Marinković: I know better than you do. I know, but it looks like you've been reading Cardell more than Kalsen. Don't. You're an old-fashioned lawyer, even though you're doing fine. So there's no mechanism here. It's not worth the law without a mechanism to implement it in practice. You can't make any payments without that mechanism. Which is the only repercussion, and you have to look for a new exit, which is the only appropriate exit, to cancel the television subscription. Here, we can see, today is July 11th, and in about six months you'll be safely in a situation to realize that your payment of the television subscription is unsuccessful and that you have to look for another way out. Come on, if not true, then show how you will convince citizens who already have televisions to come to the broadcasting service and report to the republican broadcasting service facility. First of all, you didn't specify whether this republican facility has a broadcasting service of its outcast agency in the interior. He's got agents? Why didn't you publish a list of agents to register with them? Do you think every Serbian citizen will travel to Belgrade to report? Is the post office okay? Where does it say? Where does it say he's applying? No, it doesn't work in the mail because there's no confirmation that a report was received. Will it be an obligation to send a delivery mail? That seems strange to you. These are all the repercussions of your law.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23279	Six minutes and 30 seconds. Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) We move on to Article 83, to which the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj has the word. Will you use all the time to discuss it, six minutes? Here you go. We learned something: water in parliament serves as a drink.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23280	Water is for drinking, swimming, and things like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23281	In Parliament for a drink.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23282	First of all, a man can't take a bath if he's thirsty. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I demand that it be deleted in full, Article 83. Article 83 refers to the amount and method of payment of the subscription. In paragraph 1, it is said - the amount of the monthly subscription for household receivers and recipients owned by legal persons is 210 dinars. I'm absolutely against the subscription, and especially against such a high subscription, 210 dinars is too much. It is too much. It's seven times more than an earlier subscription. A moment ago, Zarko Korać said he was responding to my exposure, that earlier the amount of the subscription changed with each electricity collection. You forget that all previous electricity collection was rare, about twice a year and only 9.5%; for two and a half years while I was in the Serbian government, electricity was collected on several occasions, I guess three times in two and a half years by 9.5%, and there was enough power without foreign donations. You need to learn that electricity can't be thick and rare. Either there's electricity or there's no electricity. It can only vary the voltage, and the voltage doesn't depend on density. On the other hand, in addition to this household payment, anyone who has a motor vehicle pays plus, the association's position is said: "The height of the annual subscription for the receiver in the motor vehicle is 440 dinars". Pay 210 for the TV in the house, then another 440 in the car, annually. The house pays 12 times 210, that's 2.520. Next, who will now control which citizen has a radio or television receiver in the car that doesn't. Is that gonna be a traffic cop doing it? When registering, there is no obligation to report radio in the car. Someone has a left-hand mirror. You have no obligation. So it's impossible to control. If there is an obligation to establish whether or not someone has an apparatus during technical reception, it is simply extracted. You know now the radios in the vehicles are mostly such that when you park the car, you can take it out and put it in the briefcase and carry it, and when you get back, you can put it back in the tape that's scheduled for the radio camera. It's impossible to control, and you won't make it. No one who has a radio camera in the vehicle will pay you that subscription. He's not crazy to pay when he doesn't have to. It can't be the job of traffic cops, because traffic cops do other things. Furthermore, it is said that the subscription from Article 1 of this article is paid monthly, no later than 15 a month for the previous month. If that's true, how are you going to pay the subscription to the electricity bill when there are a large number of people who pay the electricity by advance or on the basis of a three-month report? Then how can he do that? You predicted it would be paid with an electricity bill or with another utility account. Cedomir Jovanovic has not finished reading the law. Confirm him, Mr. Korach, that he is scheduled to make a contract with one of these... What will you do if you don't want to electro-priority? You want a plumbing, a sewer? Then there is not one company for all of Serbia, but a lot of such enterprises, so someone pays you and doesn't give you money, so you keep chasing them whether they're going to pay or not. When he's a company, it's easier to take it off his tab. It can't be CTU. What does PTT charge you on a monthly basis, so it can button. He can't. (A voice from the O.R.: We'll charge for the phone bill. ) You can do that, but you have many ends in Serbia where there are no phones yet. Get all the villages on the phone, so I'll forgive you 50% of the nebuloses you've introduced into the law. Next, you say, "A subscription from Article 2 of this article is paid annually, with a special payment, on registration of a motor vehicle." A man registers and says, "I don't have a radio camera," and that clerk on the counter -- let me check it out, get to the car, see if there's no radio in the car, and he doesn't pay. Now what? Nothing. It's still about percentages, I guess there's going to be a chance to argue with you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23283	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? The word is from MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the DOS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23284	Mrs. Komic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there are people who laugh at everything and try to turn it all into nonsense. Despite this kind of behaviour, however, there is a part of us MPs in the republican parliament, who is trying to find, among other things, a basis for development in the ten-year rule of our predecessors in a concrete sense of RTS. So many times we've said that this subscription model is the only model that fully guarantees the independence of the public information serial we want to create. As a counterargument of the introduction of the subscription, we are proposed to finance public service through the budget. In both cases, it is about the availability of funds collected from citizens. So when you criticize the subscription model, you are not criticizing the principle of taking money from citizens, but simply criticizing the methodology of taking money from citizens. That's the first great indiscipline we want to point to. So you're not saying -- it's not bad to take money from citizens, you say -- it's bad to take money from citizens by subscription. When we get to Article 83, then you say -- it's bad to take money from citizens by subscribe to an electric number, because we as predecessors took money from citizens through a subscription to an electric number, but never ended up in RTS but stayed elsewhere. Among other things, this is why we have the kind of Radio - Television Serbia, as it is today. I don't blame our predecessors for the collapsed building on Aberdar Street and the destroyed network of transmitters, although we can argue for a long time about the causes and consequences of the policy that ultimately led to such an outcome. I want to tell you a few facts. At the moment, RTS is costing about 120m dinars a month. With those 120 million RTS dinars, he can't buy any cameras, not a single assembly table, he can't record any episodes, let alone a serial program, he can't have the kind of program that RTS is looking for here as a public service. So, no cultural heritage, no cultural heritage production that is so often insisted on here, no 50% program in authentic production, because something like that is impossible with such a small budget. That's why the budget needs to be increased. That's how we get to 210 dinars a month. Of course it can be caricated, so it can be said that people will take their televisions out, take them out of the house, that they will not report a radio - receiver in their car, but we are counting on that conscious part of society, the normal part that will recognize their interest in an independent public radio or TV service, which meets the kind of obligation established by this law. We didn't get to these categories by drying up. How do independent television, or radio - services in the world finance themselves? How are they financed in our environment, in Croatia, Bosnia, Hungary, Romania, Bulgaria? Have we invented anything that's precedentd or is this a rule that was confirmed through decade of application? We only apply in Serbia those kinds of laws and legal standards that have long been confirmed in organised societies. RTS, or Television Belgrade and TV Novi Sad, needs a lot of funding. These are citizens' funds, and they are responsible for the programme that is being broadcast. If there is a misunderstanding in all of this, the public service will fail. Is that going to be precedent - no. It has failed in some other countries, it has failed in Hungary because citizens did not want to pay. Then we're going to organize a debate here and see if there's any other way to finance public service and if we as a state should then amend this law so we can say there's no public service, there's state television. The state television creates power, the government changes, and then the state television changes.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23285	The word was requested by a proposing representative, Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Zarko Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23286	Mrs. Komic, the honourable MPs, I was very open. The other are these times, and for the future in general, from now on, citizens need to be told the open truth. It's certainly not a popular measure. As you have heard, everywhere in our environment, and in Slovenia, there is only one way to preserve the independence of this media. I want to remind you that you have one country that, however, is not close to us, where the entire television is based on a commercial principle. It's the United States. I want to remind you that this is the country with probably the worst television production in the world, where everything is cut off by commercials and where everything is commercial. I think most of our citizens, when they go to America, are fascinated by the fact that there are hundreds of channels out there, but they soon find that, apart from some rare show that they like, these canals are completely worthless, and a man who would look at these channels on a continuous basis, unfortunately, would give such a comparison. In principle, we Europeans are used to that television that Europe has, but above all, to public service. I want to remind you that we are not such a wealthy society that we can have such a public service as the BBC which, unlike almost all European countries, has the same feature that there is no commercial programme at all, but it is a very high subscription, and the monthly and annual level, when it is paid for that service. The best shows, most often seen by our viewers, are often produced by this particular BBC, although not all, because of its seriousness. Commercial television is generally hard to see in Europe as well. I'm not going to humiliate and insult commercial television. That's not my goal. They're equal to the public service, but I have to tell you, and now you think hard, so you'll see, the most serious shows in this country, you have in principle on RTS. I'm talking about culture, education, national culture that we all stand for here. When it comes to political shows, I will respect the opposition's remarks and can understand their dissatisfaction. But I hope you agree with me that all the best children's shows, school shows... What they look like on commercial television - set up one host who is running and running and bringing in ten children and it's called a children's show. For a real children's show, there's a script to be made, it's to be recorded, it's to be traveled, it's to be invested. That doesn't make any money. Unless you're interrupting commercials, which is a classic abuse, and you use kids to advertise all kinds of products. So it's true that it's unpopular. I understand the opposition here who can't score and say -- here, you've still burdened the citizens with something; but, in the long run, in the interest of Serbian citizens, it's that they have a good public service that will finance itself, which will gradually be even better than it is today, burdened with people who have been employed in recent years, with still a large number of employees. The technique wasn't destroyed just in the war. For ten years practically nothing has been invested in RTS in terms of buying equipment, cameras and the like, and RTS is technically in a very difficult state. Here, an opposition MP said that we are still using analogue technology, will come digital. But if we bring someone here from RTS, let him answer why we're still in that analogy and why we still don't have modern equipment; that's because there was simply no investment. In other words, Serbian citizens have an interest in maintaining such a public service and making it financially independent. Imagine that public service that would each time depend on who is in government and whether the government now likes how it is reported. If you want to change what you're most complaining about right now, the information program, then vote that it should move away from the government having financial opportunities, not just institutionalally. She will no longer exist on the board of directors. The Management Board is completely different and will not be able to, in any way, bring it into one state of addiction, that someone on TV is thinking whether what he's politically reporting will be at the will of someone who decides on the budget. So, it has Serbia's interest to retain its public service and to finance it itself. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23287	Anybody else answer for a word? The word is from MP Zoran Angelkovic, the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23288	Ladies and gentlemen, are we interested in public service? Both the opposition and the position are interested in public service, and we've been talking about it here for two or three days, but public service in the interest of citizens. The current RTS, in the way this council is chosen, is only indirectly chosen by DOS, in fact indirectly and not directly, is not a public service of Serbian citizens; it is a public service only works of the political public in the Republic of Serbia, which supports this part of the government or, better say, this DOS that is now in power. Therefore, of course, public service is needed, to find ways to finance, of course, that Serbian citizens should in some way co-finance this public service, just not in this amount and not in this way. We knew the same thing two years ago. Then if there weren't a story for petty political points, so say you did it for petty political points, and it said -- you have to cancel the subscription, it wasn't just over electricity, this or that, it doesn't matter who; what you haven't modified instead of canceling, so two years there's nothing, we've been ruining RTS for two years, and now we say -- there's so much money missing. What hasn't been resolved in these two years? Why wasn't it immediately modified; it was abolished if it went through the electricity industry, a new mechanism was found, it would immediately go to the second; the income would be for RTS and it would be operational by now, and there would be 210 dinars per household but there would be 50-60 dinars. That would also satisfy RTS functioning. Secondly, we still don't know what 210 dinars per household means. What's the total income? What will be the monthly income for the broadcasting tomorrow, and what does that satisfy? Whether it meets the wages, or the needs of technical achievements and improvements in broadcasting, or not. What's that really about? How did it get to 210 dinars? Why 210 dinars? Someone here needs to say it, to the public to say it -- it's because it brings that number here and that number, and that number of 400, 500 million a month, as far as it might be picked up by this system, means for wages as much, for buying techniques as it is. Therefore, the public must know about these figures. If someone needs to pay 210 dinars, he needs to know what he's paying for. Not just -- he pays public service. What's he paying for? How much he pays for wages, and how much he will pay for the promotion, for the technical achievements of the public service and the promise that public service will be in the interest of all citizens, not just the political nomenclature that is in power.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23289	The word is by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, a replica to the presentation of the previous speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23290	Mrs. Komic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, very briefly. Mr. Angelkovic, you asked us to pay RTS whose director and editor-in-chief is a person convicted of years of prison, a person being prosecuted for financial malfeasance during the seven-week war. You asked us to pay RTS who called students terrorists, shared the people on patriots and traitors, and became the most effective and most used weapon in a ten-year, truly tragic rule and your party and all those who agreed to rule with you. What makes RTS today can be interpreted, criticised, but in one, quite certain, if someone is well-intentioned, there should be a consensus. It's not a TV that makes gaps in society. It's not a TV that raises barriers. It's not a television that speaks in hate language, intolerance. It's a television that makes mistakes, a television that has a lot of problems, but it's certainly a completely different television than the one that was present until October 5th through the editorial concept and through the programs it broadcast. We are not ashamed to say that the director and editor-in-chief of this television, Mr Milanovic, has kept the defence ministry's order and the Yugoslav Army, that he did nothing to protect his employees, that he did not do what the directors of commercial television, what the director, or the editor-in-chief of Television in Novi Sad, did. You've been playing with people's lives. You've read letters sent to the NATO Pact, and at no time have you been prepared to share the fate of even employees on that television. It's our common tragedy and it shouldn't be the subject of political discussions. Let the courts decide. We are obliged to say that no one has asked us when this subscription was introduced, that no one has offered or opened a debate on the quality of the programme followed by this kind of funding, that no one has even tried to tell us that the director and editor-in-chief of such a public service will be the prominent party official of the party in power. These are all the paradoxes we point to, and that's all that makes this proposal different. The director of RTS, or Radio-Television Novi Sad, will not be able to be, not a member of the party in power, but a person who has any connection with parties in power or parties in opposition. She won't be able to be a person who's in any way financially dependent on power. This results in the right that we are currently giving citizens to finance such public service with 210 dinars. If they do not want to, we say openly, the concept of an independent public service in Serbia will not work, and then we will be able to say that TV broadcasts on RTS or Belgrade Television are state television, to protect the interests of the party that is in power, and that the duration of the party that is in power [[Employee Vojislav Seselj seeks the right to reply.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23291	You have no right to a replica. This was a replica of your exposure. (Employee Vojislav Seselj advertises the breach of the Rules of Procedure. ) There is a word from MP Vojislav Seselj, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23292	You, Mrs. Comic, had to intervene and prevent any MP from getting involved in a trial that is still under way. A first-degree verdict has been issued, it is embarrassing, in my opinion, but it cannot be affirmed in this way by the head of the ruling majority's parliamentary group and that there is additional pressure on the judiciary, especially when we know that absolutely nowhere in the media was it possible to talk about this terrible precedent. There was no place where state television could move to broadcast the program without being found by the NATO Pact. And the ones who ordered the bombing, you're taking here as your biggest friends. Dragoljub Milanovic was one of the worst directors of state television and editors before that. Only one person worse than Dragoljub Milanovic, which is Bojana Lekic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23293	Ambassador, you're abuse of the right to declare the violation of the Rules of Procedure. I ask all MPs to agree that 250 of us cannot lead a session of the Assembly and that all MPs act in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. National MP Vojislav Seselj said the violation of the Rules of Procedure, compared to the contents of the replica issued by MP Cedomir Jovanovic. What is missing is the provision of a member of the Rules of Procedure, and what is missing is the agreement and consensus in this assembly that the contents of the replica cannot and should not be mixed in, because the content of the replica implies a free position of one who corresponds to the replica, both when it comes to MP Cedomir Jovanovic, as president of the DOS parliamentary group and when you have the right to reply. When asked -- where does it say so, it says in good customs and in what we have done so far in this House. If you want the injury of the Rules of Procedure to be expressed by the Administrative Board, it is your right as a People's MP. Once again, I ask all MPs not to seek other rights and respect for rights and obligations, which are not ready to respect themselves. So we're all bound to listen to each other with respect and respect for the Rules of Procedure. There is a word from MP Cedomir Jovanovic, a replica to the presentation of MP Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23294	Mrs. Comic, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs here are still mentioned and too tragic and quite certainly contradictory facts, that we would now be ousting about this subject in an untasteful way. I just want to shed some light on a few important details so that we don't get the wrong impressions on the DOS parliamentary group or on the policy that we're running. No one in parliament has condemned Mr Milanovic and no one in this parliament wants to affect the second-degree decisions that state authorities will make. But also, none of us can ask us to keep quiet about what happened and to protect the interest of a man, and we forget the interests of 14, 15, 16 or hundreds of families who have died. We do not accuse Mr Milanovic, it is known who filed criminal charges against him. And we won't be an obstacle on the way to determining the truth and its responsibilities. Some others have been a hindrance for a year and a half and that's why the building on Takaviska Street was the first to go up in flames. Serbia in which we live today is Serbia in which everything is spoken openly, Serbia in which no personal tragedies or tragedies of family-dead RTS workers are misused, or the tragedy of Mr Milanovic. We just made clear the facts and that's what I did this time. I said that the RTS he ran was the television that was the instrument, the most effective weapon in the reckoning that was led against the democratic part of our society, the reckoning that was very tragic. If we're talking today, we can talk about RTS that makes mistakes, television that has a lot of problems, but it's a television that doesn't work out when you organize them; 50, 60, 100, 200, 300 passersbys there, but there are no dozens or hundreds of thousands of people, as was the case in the last decade. It's the best confirmation of the quality of the program that this television broadcasts. We may be dissatisfied with what she's doing, but it's the citizens who are making their final courts, they're making the most visible information program, and that's why I have no doubt that this decision we put into this law, the decision to finance through subscription, is good.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23295	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic, president of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23296	I'm reporting as president of the parliamentary group to advertise a violation of Article 97. Rules of Procedure, misreading the presentation of the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group, Zoran Angelkovic. We've come here to a classic replacement of the thesis and accusing man of something the court should say, but we've been in a situation to hear a classic confession, which will take time to come. Please, Mr. Angelkovic was talking about a classic replacement of thesis. A year and a few days ago, from the mouth of authorised representatives of the government of the Republic of Serbia, and there is a stenogram, several reasons why radio and TV subscription were lifted. Today, you've been making us soundly convinced, for several hours, that it's the right thing to do, and that's not correct, it's not moral. Either you're not telling the truth, or you're not telling the truth now. This isn't about editorial politics. She's changing with the editorial team. It's about funding RTS, what you said 10 months ago and what you're saying right now, and that's the diametric opposite. And another thing, I must tell you, about the responsibility of Dragan Milanovic, the court will give its position, but I must tell you, given that I was on the last day of the trial down there, that a shameful statement by the holder of the judicial functions that says they have no crown proof, an order whether or not they should have done so, but that they are convinced that the order exists. That's how a court in one state can't work, that's how a court can't work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23297	National MP Zarko Obradovic, president of the SPS parliamentary group, noted the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 97, which calls for a misreading of the presentation of MP Zoran Angelkovic. The right to the replica is subject to other provisions of the Rules of Procedure and is the discretionary right of the chairman, when it comes to the request of the MP to receive the right to reply. So, in what MP Zoran Angelkovic was saying was that the DOS political coalition formed, to quote freely a certain type of programme on RTS, and since it was treated by MP Cedomir Jovanovic as a false interpretation or a false fact, he was given the right to replication. Otherwise, giving the right to the replica, as a discretionary right of the chairman, cannot be subject to the statement of views on the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, you do not even have the right to contact the Administrative Committee. Since no one is answering for a word anymore, the next amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Adam Urosevic. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? He has the word National MP Petar Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23298	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Soviet Union is in principle against the introduction of a TV subscription that was abolished less than a year and a half ago. However, knowing that the DOS majority and DOS government will not accept our proposal to abolish the subscription, we are going out with the next amendment, to help the government get out of this dead end as well. In fact, we suggest that instead of 210 dinars, TV is charged for 50 dinars and that the subscription for the receiver in the vehicle is charged for 100 dinars instead of 440 dinars. Given the situation in which most Serbian citizens are located, starting with pensioners, agricultural producers, workers who receive salaries or do not receive them at all, we think it would be appropriate for TV subscription to be 50 dinars, i.e. for a car radio of 100 dinars. At the same time, I would remind the promoter to take stenographic notes from the Third Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, held on 12, 13 and 14 February 2001 and to read what then ministers in the government and individual discussers from DOS spoke of a TV subscription. I think the most important thing would be to keep your mouth shut right now, because it's very well known and it says what they said about the TV subscription. We of the Soviet Union think it's a violation of Article 13. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia where all citizens are said to be equal in rights and obligations before the Constitution and before the law, in this way, by introducing this TV subscription, for all citizens who have at least one TV receiver, regardless of what part of Serbia's territory they live on; this is not right. In some parts of Serbia's territory, Serbia's citizens can only watch the first programme, while in other parts they see the first, second, third and many local programmes. At the same time, the proposal does not show that some local TV stations that are also state-owned would also be financed from the TV subscription, so to speak, as municipal TV stations have formed municipal authorities, or municipalities as local self-government and are financed from the budget. There are big money paid by citizens again directly or indirectly through taxes. I'll say, as I come from Pomorava County, only two municipalities that are eight kilometers away from each other. There's a TV station in Jagodina, there's a TV station in Turkey. For this year, there is a budget of 500,000 marks for funding and a TV station that is visible within a ten-mile radius, and Ćupria, ladies and gentlemen, in these hot days, hot summers, there is no water, and now the question is whether citizens should watch the local TV station program, or whether the water leaks from the taps. At the same time, there has been a budget of 15 million dinars in Jagodina, and in Jagodina there is a problem of a dump that has not been resolved today. The question arises whether citizens, in addition to funding local TV stations from the budget, should also finance a broadcasting facility in Belgrade, or a Serbian Radio-Television. For this reason, we in the Soviet Union are asking the government and asking the government to make this amount smaller, to be more appropriate to Serbian citizens, especially pensioners, agricultural producers, etc. I will finish next, in one position of this bill, it says that the TV subscription will increase every year, given the rise in prices to a little in the previous year. Be in the government in principle, so when you do it for a TV subscription, you also work for agricultural products, so if inflation is 40%, raise the ransom price, say, the wheat by 40%; this year you didn't do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23299	Four minutes. The word has a proposalary representative, Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Zarko Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23300	Dear Mrs Comic, the honourable MPs, I think we are practically all the arguments we could make in relation to this unpopular measure, that it is certainly a burden on the Serbian citizens' budget. There are moments when a man, although one measure goes to the expense of his financial situation, sees another higher interest in supporting a decision. This is the moment when every citizen will certainly answer for himself, whether he has an interest in supporting public service. I would ask you not to continue the story of what some local municipalities and some local communities are doing, and we have nothing to do with it here, nor the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It is a matter of the local community and decisions of political party representatives, and if they do something irresponsible and contrary to the law, there is a way to resolve it; if it is politically irresponsible, citizens will judge in local elections. Once again, I would ask you to consider that the funds that have been calculated here in the subscription are approximately the minimum funds with which Serbia's Radio-Television can function. If your alternative is to keep this back in state television, and it's financed from the budget, every time the political furniture changes in Serbia, it's going to change the entire leadership of RTS, it's going to change from the information program; it's a model that we've had in recent years and that nobody, but now, it's interesting, nobody in this room is satisfied.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23301	Who else of the authorized participants comes forward for a word? MP Vojislav Seselj, president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23302	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment of the Soviet Union is pointless, as is the legal provision itself. This is just about bidding around the amount of the subscription, but the problem is that the subscription is non-refundable. You've told the people enough here today why he won't report his television sets and why he won't pay the subscription. As an example of good television, you have offered Bojana Lekic and the current RTS editorial concept. That's a huge majority of Serbian citizens won't pay for it, and let's see how you can charge by coercion. First, the citizens won't report it, not in the vast majority, and I guarantee it. Now you're going from house to house to control who has the TV. Without a court order, you can't go into any house, so the court can't give a warrant, but it can give an investigative judge or a court of law. Therefore, you cannot enter houses; to see who has an antenna, a man can have an antenna without a television set, or to put the antenna in the yard, or to have a room antenna, and it doesn't mean anything to you. Here you have provided a fine of the annual total amount of the subscription, but that penalty will be insurmountable to you because millions of people will not want to pay the subscription. You've completely missed it. Our record of the number of receivers does not exist; it was charged automatically, had a man receiver or not. It was charged with an electricity bill, by a number, not by a receiver, so he paid eventually and someone who didn't; it was kind of a tax, a tax on state television that didn't ask whether there was a receiver or not. Everyone had to pay. However, the general consensus was reached to abolish the subscription, and I don't remember whether any party opposed the cancellation of the subscription; perhaps only one was, ours was not, we were constantly in favour. It was our October-month legal project to completely cancel the subscription. If anyone was angry with Dragoljub Milanovic's editorial policy, it was the SRS and we spoke openly. In our eyes Dragoljub Milanović has only one extenuating circumstance, which Bojana Lekić is incomparably worse than Dragoljub Milanović, which is now hate language much more intense, much stronger, much more pronounced...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23303	I ask you, MP, to return to the content of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23304	... And what now is the persecution of the opposition from the information programmes much more effective, more efficient, more complete. Have I run out of time?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23305	I always allow 30 seconds to end.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23306	I said what I had.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23307	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? Yeah. ) The word is attended by MP Zoran Angelkovic, authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23308	Ladies and gentlemen, I don't want to talk about Dragoljub Milanovic, the best thing the court will tell the public about is who bombed and killed those people in RTS, whether NATO or Dragoljub Milanovic, the best public will say it in time; and as far as I'm concerned, I went straight to RTS that morning and tried to save people and be inside the building, if that's what interests you, Jovanovic. But let me read something else, this is a session of the 12th, 13th and 14th of February 2001. One of yours speaks, you will understand who he is, and says: "Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today it is my honor to present to you on behalf of the Government a bill amending the Law on Radio-Television. This law abolishes the tax on electric counters. The first reason is very simple, the tax on the electric number should be abolished because it is expected of us long, vast majority of our citizens, and we can do it today and keep that promise. The second reason this tax must be abolished is that it represents unnatural and, by its consequences, an unfair way of financing RTS. The third reason, we see in this proposal the first significant step in the reform of state television and voting today for abolishing the fee does not mean voting to abolish radio-television. On the contrary, the vote to abolish this fee means the launch of an important project and reforming our state television as one of the main and important institutions. All European countries, including the United States, have state television and is almost financed in a mixed way everywhere. One part is state and the other is commercial." That's what you said on February 12th, 2001. So, commercial and state. Now it's about a cab. Now it's about a cab, about a fee, call it what you want, it's about paying. It's just that you're not consistent, you're telling one story a year ago, and the other you're telling now. We are against paying for it, but we accept the proposal to be 50 dinars, given the current economic situation of citizens. That's more rational, and you have to accept that.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23309	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? The word is from MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the DOS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23310	Mrs. Komic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, has done us a great service, as three reasons have been mentioned that we insisted a year ago on amending the Law on Radio-Television of Serbia, in order to abolish the electricity tax as a form of financing Serbia's Radio-Television. These reasons are: firstly, a clear expectation of citizens who did not want to finance Serbia's Radio-Television through tax. The second reason is the issue of injustice that you mentioned and I will remind you that the Federal Constitutional Court was, in fact, a court that knowingly extended the constitutional debate on the financing of Serbia's Radio-Television through the charge of an electric bill, because it was clear that such a thing was against the constitution. And finally, the third was certainly our desire to reform Serbia's Radio-Television first, to offer a new concept, and then, with that concept, we offer citizens and their representatives in political life to decide whether they agree to this new financing concept or in a different way. Here we heard in the previous discussion that it didn't matter whether anyone had a TV or didn't have a TV, he was paying an electric fee, and TV was allegedly funded from that fee, and the authorities weren't interested in whether the person who paid that fee was watching, even if he had a TV receiver. It's nonsens. I want to remind you that you voted against this initiative a year ago, because that's when you said that RTS would be more dependent on the government. See how much contradiction there is in what you said then and in what you're saying today; and I consciously acknowledge contradiction, if this argument of RTS reform is ignored, between what we said three, four or five years ago and what we're saying today. The point is that RTS has changed, and with this change, we are proposing a change in funding. We don't want it to be done in an unconstitutional and illegal way, with a fee on the count. That is why we have left the broadcasting institution, or the Television of Belgrade and TV Novi Sad, the possibility of an agreement with some public enterprise on the forms of achieving this funding right through a subscription for a television, or radio programme. The deal will be processed through the statutes of Belgrade Radio-Television, or TV Novi Sad, and through business arrangements and contracts with public companies. How's that television going to solve it? We're not interested. Will it take the obligation, for example, of a public enterprise such as PTT or Elektroprivreda, to say through a contract with RTS that if they fail to realise these planned funds, they assume on themselves the obligation to pay off RTS funds, i.e. Belgrade TV and Novi Sad TV, this is no longer a topic for parliament and for those of us who pass this law. It is important for us to establish clear and precise legal frameworks in which this independence, which we all want, will be achieved, and to develop public service, which we all want as well. In everything quoted, we actually recognize another solid argument about what we're doing today. If you'd like to step out, you can. There's no sense in everything, but it's not the behavior of rational and reasonable people and citizens aren't going to behave like that, I'm sure of it. If they decide not to pay public service, it will be a clear message that citizens believe that at this point their existential need is stronger than the need for impartial and timely information.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23311	Three minutes and 30 seconds. Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. ) The 83rd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Radojko Petrovic, Zoran Andjelkovic, Velimir Živojnović, Milos Nesovic, Rajko Baralić, Nebojsa Jović and Dusan Cvetkovic. Is anyone answering for word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? The word has a folk MP, Radojko Petric.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23312	Dear MPs, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, on behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia, along with a group of MPs, I have tabled an amendment to Article 83. This article regulates the amount and manner of payment of the subscription. The government's proposal that the monthly subscription for household receivers is 210 dinars is unrealistic. In fact, as of February 2001, when radio and television subscription were paid, the monthly subscription was 61.21 dinar. Given that the rise in prices for the whole year 2001 was 40.7% and 4.3% for the first six months of this year, then it is clear that the government's proposal to increase the subscription by three and a half times. Due to this, it is normal to accept the amendment and that the monthly radio-television subscription is 90 dinars per household, noting that this is more than the price increase for these years and a half. For a radio receiver in a motor vehicle, although no subscription was paid last year, the amendment corrects the amount of the annual subscription from the Government and brings into line with the amount of the subscription for household receivers; it is therefore proposed that the annual subscription should amount to 180 dinars, not 440 dinars, as proposed by the Government. The third part of the amendment suggests that part of the 1.5% of the total monthly subscription of Serbia's Radio-Television directly pays not on the account of the Republic's budget, but on domestic film producers, at 1.5% of the value of each film project. This results in a alignment with the current Cinema Act, where RTS is said to be required to participate in the financing of every domestic film project of 1.5% of the price of the film. So these two things match. The fourth part of the amendment proposes to delete the government's proposal to increase the subscription annually in addition to rising prices to a little and an additional 5%. Since there is a alignment of the subscription to a small price increase, there is really no excuse to increase some additional 5%. For this reason, the amendment in this part should be accepted and the Government's proposal should be deleted to increase annually in addition to the rise in prices to a small and about 5%, inexplicable indeed; and what is it, if price stability, if prices are accepted to a small - now another imposition should be increased by 5%. I think the reasons for the amendment to be accepted are convincing.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23313	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? The word is from MP Vojislav Seselj, president of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23314	This amendment is meaningful and therefore I support it on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party. You see, where people collect money you want to follow the price index for a little bit, and where money is given to the people, there you follow the average salary. For pensions, you determine the monthly amount based on some combination that proved to be extremely bad. Why didn't you put here that the growth of the subscription depends on the growth of wages, not on the growth index prices for a little bit? The price growth index is slightly higher than the wage growth index. Salaries aren't able to keep track of prices. This amendment loses its meaning in the light of the fact that the subscription is non-paymentable. You see, the subscription used to be made through the incasanats. In 1993, there was such a crisis in the payment of a subscription that it simply sought a way out of a situation where a huge number of citizens would not pay. It wasn't from the sky that the ribs had the idea that the subscription was connected to the electricity bill, or to the count, but because of the fact that it almost wasn't paid at all. Maybe even 30% of Serbian citizens didn't pay the subscription. Now they won't even pay you 20%. (From O.R.: And on the phone? ) On the phone it is impossible for a citizen to refuse a subscription, his phone is turned off; and you cannot climb his roof to turn off or take off his antenna. So you can't stop him from watching TV without making him pay. You don't have that instrument. Very intelligent. Very, of course. Very. You're appealing to the consciousness of the people here and any argument offering him the current state television. The current state television is like Tito's time. The people won't look at her, they won't look at her, they sweared earlier on state television, and now they're cursing her even more. It doesn't occur to him to give her money. You'll see, when I strengthen the people's conviction, that's why I've been talking all day, both yesterday and today. For the phone, you ask... As for laughter, in this National Assembly, you constantly produce that laugh. You guys laugh all the time. Now I will answer you why: You laugh because you have denied yourself the right to speak at a pay phone with such a businessman. None of you have the right to report now, to participate in the debate in particular. There was always this right before, and it was unhindered by every MP. You've reduced parliamentary rights, you can't get a pay phone. If you don't have an amendment, you can't even talk. That's true. You've reduced your rights and...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23315	Three minutes and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23316	... Everything's funny to you. It's supposed to be funny to you, just ask yourself who's the funniest.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23317	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Zoran Angelkovic, an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23318	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, our intention with this amendment was to actually try to take a proportionate look at the interest of broadcasting and public service, as you call it, and the possibility of Serbian citizens paying for it. If a subscription is already being introduced, then it should be rational to the extent that Serbian citizens can endure it. This subscription certainly cannot be held by Serbian citizens. That's one thing. Secondly, there is a double increase in that subscription from year to year. On the one hand, harmonising with price growth on the small and on the other, I remind you, it says -- according to officially published data from the statistics authority, increased by 5%. So, in addition to official price hikes to a little, add-on to 5%. So five years from now, when it goes proportionally, it goes off to almost 40% of the increase on that basis. We are not talking about real prices that will increase according to the growth index to a little. Therefore, if this is the case, in five years we will have, in euros, almost twice the subscription that Serbian citizens are to pay. Both should be changed and brought into harmony, so that the citizens can endure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23319	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted to Article 83 by MP Branislav Grubaski. The word has an amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23320	Dear Mrs. Comic, fellow MPs, I must begin by saying again that because of the urgency of passing this new bill of law, the Vojvodina Assembly and theoretically lost the opportunity to be an amendment speaker. In fact, you know when we received the proposal for this law; simply, the Vojvodina Assembly could not meet and, in some ways, declare itself on these amendments. Of course, some of its representatives have come to this in some informal and semi-formal encounters, some solutions, and that the proposal has somehow been adopted by unauthorized promoters. However, I do think that in some way, a discredited Assembly of Vojvodina, already with the Constitution itself, is true, because every MP here has as much right as the entire Assembly of Vojvodina has 120 members. Several amendments failed to explain, for the reason that it was the Committee on Culture and Information, which was held at the same time as the debate lasted here. The amendment - in Article 83, paragraphs 1 and 2 - is amended and reads as follows: "The amount of the monthly subscription for the receivers used in the household and for the recipients owned by legal persons determines the advice of the republican broadcasting agency. The height of the annual subscription for motor vehicle receivers determines the advice of the Republic Broadcasting Agency." Paragraph 5 is amended and reads: "The rural establishment of the public broadcasting service is 85% of the revenue generated by the payment of a subscription in the area of AP". This is a very important amendment, especially this item 5. Of course, the latest article in 83 is deleted. Article 83(1) provides that the amount of the monthly subscription for household receivers and recipients holding legal persons shall be 210 dinars. So this amount of monthly subscription is fixed and does not assume the possibility of inflation or deflation, in which case the amount of the subscription would be unadjusted. For this reason, we of the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina have submitted an amendment to Article 83 of this proposal, in which we propose that the height of the monthly subscription for the recipients determine the advice of the Republic Broadcasting Agency. In the same Article, Article 2 of this proposal provides for a fixed rate of annual subscription for motor vehicle receivers. For the same reason as the previous one, we from the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina have submitted an amendment in which we also believe that the height of the annual subscription for receivers should not be determined in advance, but should be determined by the advice of the republican broadcasting agency. In line with the proposals set out above, we suggest that the final position of Article 83 be deleted, because if the advice of the republican broadcasting agency determines the amount of the subscription it would be unnecessary to define how the subscription is calculated. I welcome the government that adopted the amendment to the record of the subscription fee in Vojvodina territory, but I think it is the minimum requirement that has been adopted in subsequent amendments that have not been agreed on. It's very logical... (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. )......................................................................................................... that 85%, or 70% as foreseen by this proposal, will be recorded in the territory of Vojvodina, because most of them remain here. This subscription, which should remain on the territory of Vojvodina, of 85%, for a very simple reason should have a higher percentage, should remain because it is not paid for the ratings of the programme. This should be known by all Serbian residents and viewers, not to pay ratings, but to pay for the production of the programme. We think that Vojvodina with its potential, with its resources, can in any way respond to such a single task as the production of a radio-television program...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23321	Four minutes and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23322	Just a little while longer, I'm sorry, Mrs. Comic, we're not able to, and in any case, we think that this percentage of the subscription should be, if not 78%, as much as it's brought to the Executive Greater AP Vojvodina, if not 100% as brought by the Committee on Information of the Vojvodina Assembly, then at least 85%, as we suggest by this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23323	Five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23324	Thank you and I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23325	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 83 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Radosavljevic. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? The word has been made by MP Aleksandar Radosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23326	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 83, where I have suggested that, behind Article 5, we add a special position that should be roughly stated to radio or television stations with regional or local significance, i.e. the community's 10% revenue generated by the payment of the subscription in the area of local or regional community. A similar amendment was submitted by my counterpart Branislav Kovacevic, who approximately predicts 10%, only seems to me to be missing a detail relating to the percentage that is decreasing in proportion to the time period, since the law provides for Article 96, paragraph 10, that all local radio and television stations are obliged to privatise within 10 years. Why did I propose such an amendment? For the simple reason that I really think it is very important that we help radio stations in these communities to collect some of their assets in this way, to prepare for the privatisation process that awaits them and thus strengthen their strength for what they are under the law and to expect within the longest four years. This amendment has a duration of time, as the 96th member himself says, means a maximum of four years. What's also very important, I think it's necessary to reward those local stations in one way. We've just heard a lot over the past 15-20 minutes, as some have advocated a subscription, some have been against a subscription. Everyone in this country has been disfigured, so the concept of a subscription, which was very minor, has been derailed. If the state and the people could, why can't they have a subscription? The very principle of functioning the subscription that we propose is something that is absolutely incompatible with their way of thinking in their heads. One opposition group advocates funding by the budget, that is, political influence, and a political group is completely distracting us and telling us a variety of nonsense, as they have done in the past ten years. I think it is very important that we reward these local radio stations precisely because for the past four, five or ten years, they were the only ports that lighted up the darkness that was RTS, which was under the hands of those regimeal parties in Serbia; they were mostly strangled, strangled, placed in a position to have their property confiscated. It's all kind of an opportunity to give them back a little bit now, strengthen them a little bit and prepare them for the privatisation process that awaits them anyway. I say, this amendment envisioned the possibility of reducing the percentage of the subscription, as participation in the privatisation process, i.e. that capital that is not by local self-government, is increasing.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23327	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. ) The word is held by MP Vojislav Seselj, president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23328	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this amendment is pointless. The explanation submitted by the author of the amendment, Aleksandar Radosavljevic, is amazing. He now thinks that the people are distracting those who are against the subscription. We'll see who's distracting the people when there's a first attempt at a subscription. I guarantee you in advance that your subscription will be unsuccessful, that you will not be able to charge for it and you do not have the instrument to charge for it. You have no way to get the people to pay the subscription. The people are with us. Yes, it is, because you promised him full employment, so now you're firing 700,000 workers, because you promised cheap food and electricity, so now the current is six times more expensive than it was before, and the food knows how much. Now through this attempt to charge you will see how many people are with you. Now you will see that almost no one in the peoples is with you. You can promise those to whom you plan to return your property - pay your subscription, and we'll pay you back your property. You may achieve something there, but that's all you can achieve. The people have no reason to pay you a subscription, you can't make them pay for it. There's no institutional opportunity to force him. Only one who doesn't know what to do with the money, and possibly loves you because he's rich because of you, can pay you. Usually those who have the most money are the least willing to give. The majority of Serbian citizens have so poored in these two years that they have nothing to pay from. You can't charge for anything. (A voice from the O.R.: When are the fairies made? These fairies were made by these main ones among you here. No state fairies were built for those two years while I was in government, not one single one. The villas were made by some, such as Neboja Covic, who had previously been in power, so now they're back with that little opposition intermeco. Look at that. Who in the Kosutnjak got state fairies, who on the Santa? How many of your officials have been given fairies, even in that old communist time. It's easy for Biljani Kovacevic - Wolf, her father, Tito's general... (President: National MP, please return to the subject, i.e. the content of the amendment submitted by MP Aleksandar Radosavljevic. I'm just answering these intruders from the O.R., and you've taken away your right to speak for yourself at the pay phone, so your MPs have to speak from somewhere else from the depths of the hall. (President: I remind you to comment on the amendment submitted by MP Aleksandar Radosavljevic, member of the ruling coalition and MP of the DOS. But you don't have time to talk about the amendment anymore. If there's no time, then I won't.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23329	Anybody else answer for a word? The word is from MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the DOS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23330	Mrs. Komic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please pay attention. This is a very important question, I think the last question that deserves is a truly reasoned commentary. They are then amendments that are more technical and they have received their answers through previous discussions. If we agreed to share the financial resources achieved through a TV subscription between the public service that we are establishing by this law, which will be transformed by RTS, and local radio stations established by local self-government, we would violate that principle that we are trying to build, the principle of an independent IT service. Both the board of directors, both directors and editor-in-chiefs of local radio and TV stations, set up a local assembly of municipalities, so the authorities, parties that received support from citizens. That principle is legitimate because it came from laws that governed such an area. However, under this law this is no longer possible and therefore we cannot distribute the funds taken from citizens to create an independent information service for partial financing by the authority of the dependent local IT service. Therefore, an amended law was adopted in the part where the obligation to transform radio services, or television at the level of local self-government, is being committed. In the next four years, these houses must be privatised. Once privatised, they will have commercial television status and will function on other principles. If they want to have information programs, these information programs will pass the test on the market and thus share the fate of other information houses that are not public service. But public service funds can't be re-routed to those consumers who must inevitably be financed by the government, because they are governed by the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23331	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 83 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Kovacevic. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? The word is made by MP Branislav Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23332	Dear MPs, Mr. Ceda Jovanovic has given me two opportunities for cream. In the first part, he talked about RTS, and that is to say, it is against the facts -- where local and regional TV stations were at that moment and who brought out the whole democratic struggle, while RTS was what it was. Now RTS is transformed into a public service with the same number of people, with all the capacities it has, and these people need to be flushed down the water. I just think that this amendment, respecting all the circumstances, and privatisation and everything that is the concept of the Government of Serbia, should be respected, not only in an emotional sense but also in an extremely rational sense, something called - regional and local radio and TV stations. Over 10%, they gain the opportunity to survive in the next four years, if they are privatized, and in the way that is planned, simply the way we agreed to survive. Otherwise, the Committee on Culture and Information has accepted this amendment. The government's main objection went two ways. The first direction went to a 10% percentage, to reduce it compared to RTS; so if RTS or future broadcasting facility is supposed to be like that mastodont we've had so far, then there won't be enough 200 percent of what we're going to single out. And if it is intended to really be in service of public service, then it will also be able to survive within this budget. The second thing the government had made as a remark was that we would now invest in something that would be privatised tomorrow and would go into private hands, which is also not true, because the Privatisation Act puts all the funds back into the Republic of Serbia, or the budget, at 96%, and only 5% remain local. So, please understand the problems of local and regional TV and radio stations, of course by respecting the principles we adopted and on condition that all of these regional and local radio and TV stations are just being privatized within four years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23333	The word has a proposalary representative, Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Zarko Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23334	Dear Mrs Comic, the honourable MPs, this is about making financial burdens to a large extent for Serbian citizens if we start to fund the entire network of radio and TV stations that we have found, which we want to turn into a local and regional public service, we start funding from citizens. The question is, did any citizens ever ask that? So, one of the interesting things was here -- we take, if I may say so, one right, one freedom to defend ourselves, assessing that public service is one good and in the interests of all citizens of Serbia, and what is otherwise a practice in all of Eastern Europe and Europe in general; however, in this case, it is required that 10% of the funds be allocated to those local and regional stations, which have been established quite massively in Serbia and which are now, of course, the largest part of the municipal budget or something wider and which are very difficult to survive at this point, given that the municipalities themselves are mostly poor and do not have great resources to single out. I understand the allegations that these people who work here, who have played a very often honorable and very important information role, are being helped at this point, but this is not how it can be solved. First of all, I have to tell you that these local TV and radio stations have a lot. At this point, I can't make an assessment, but I'm pretty sure there are at least a hundred such TV stations in Serbia. I also have to warn you that if you take 10% of the budget that will have this public broadcasting service, the republican and the province, if you divide it, you'll see that it can turn into funds that aren't enough to help many of them. Some of them aren't so small, some of them are, and on the other hand RTS will again, as a public service, or province, run out of funds and then we're practically playing here. We introduce as some sort of subscription, the opposition attacks us, the citizens are dissatisfied, and the money is not enough to maintain RTS. In other words, there would be no use. Please, of course this subscription wasn't made by heart, it was made in agreement with television, with people who care about the financial business of television, who care about technical equipment, with the technical director of RTS, with some assessment of what a minimum investment is that it doesn't fall apart, because it's also falling apart because of the ageing of equipment, because of equipment sharing equipment. I don't think accepting such an amendment would help local and regional TV and radio stations, and on the other hand RTS, like RT Novi Sad, would deprive them of the minimum resources they need to survive. So that was the only reason, not some disrespect and some feeling that these people didn't need help. Obviously, the big problem is how to finance, if I may say so, these regional and municipal radios and television stations, which are otherwise, according to the draft law, and without this change that we have introduced later to privatise, are practically scheduled to come into the privatisation process.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23335	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? Here's a word from MP Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23336	Ladies and gentlemen, I think the amendment of MP Branislav Kovacevic is quite involved. I promise him, if I have time to come to the vote, I'll vote for his amendment. I'm afraid it won't help him much, but I'm surprised by his anger and revolt over the fact that local radios and TV stations on their shoulders have drawn the burden of your political struggle and brought you to power, and now you're letting them down the water. What do you wonder, Mr. Kovacevic? It's the manner of your authority. Like these local radios and TV stations, many students brought you to power, fought with the police during the winter, fought, and you raised their scholarships now to the sky. No one's ever dared in an old, unnatural regime before to raise so much tuition to students. Then, many workers pulled on their backs your struggle. Now you're mass firing them. Many pensioners froze in demonstration during the winter period to bring you to power. Now you've flushed them down the water. Many peasants have supported you, now they are even more dissatisfied with their position than before. The state officials supported you, so now they're being released down the water. I was amazed the other day when I heard there was a clerk in the judiciary with a salary of 3,000. Therefore, there is no reason to wonder what local radios and TV stations have been released down the water. That's what you could have expected. They have fulfilled their role. Now they're not needed. They're still dangerous, because from time to time one of them shows up and one of the opposition shows up. The other day I was at a local TV station in Uzic, and after my show, it was banned. She found something else there - she didn't pay her taxes, there's always something. You know, when inspectors come in with an assignment not to come out until they find something, there's always something. They didn't fix the water boiler, they didn't paint, they didn't do this or that. So there's no reason to be surprised here. I support your amendment honestly, I'm even much wider, if you've been following my presentation before, in that. I'm here to make every citizen feel free to determine who he'll pay his subscription to, if he wants to pay for it at all. And since your subscription is going to be a failure, since almost no one will want to pay your subscription and you have no way of making people pay, I'm afraid we're not very comfortable with this debate for a few hours, to tell you the truth. We could have cut it short, but I didn’t know that the Federal Assembly would be so quick to complete the work.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23337	The word is made by MP Branislav Kovacevic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23338	Interesting exposure to Mr. Seselj, very interesting. The same amendment proposed by Mr. Radosavljevic declared senseless, and the other, who tried to abuse, proved to be great; a virtuoso of words etc. Just forgets one thing. In 1997, the citizens went out against you. They weren't as much for us as they were against you. Therefore, we are talking about 1996 and 1997, 30,000 Kragujevcans defended local media. It's a completely different story. What are you trying to get on that train, unfortunately, Mr. Seselj, that's your problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23339	The word is from MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the DOS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23340	Dear Mrs. Comic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, I would not waste my time on everything Mr. Kovacevic pointed out carefully, it does not make much sense when two identical amendments are divided into extraordinary and pointless, as a representative of the opposition did, but I think we are obliged once again to repeat that this principle is not a principle that is directed against the media, whose founder is a local self-government. I think that everything that happened in the period until democratically elected representatives came to power was actually mutually beneficial and that everyone at this point was, to the extent possible, and satisfied -- journalists because they could do their job, politicians because they had professional media. Unfortunately, it is legally unacceptable that the service of which is the founder of the government, even if it was a municipal or city, is financed by the means by which those financial resources are made available for the financing of an independent public service. The issue of media funding, which is the founder of local self-government, must nevertheless be resolved by municipalities, or cities, which, I believe, can find enough funds for their survival, until privatisation. It's a topic for the City Assembly, if we talk about Study "B", for the Kragujevac Assembly, if we talk about TV Kragujevac, for Kraljevo, Užice. So, for all those local self-governments that I believe there are enough people to protect these journalists, professionals, and who will find the resources enough for their uninterrupted work. Calling on students and Caricating what we are doing today -- in this regard, I will present only a few facts: The government of the Republic of Serbia, although it is an exclusive law of the university, has insisted and finally obtained the consent of the school to reduce tuition. The government of the Republic of Serbia has made a decision that colleges have adopted and on the basis of which scholarships for self-financing students will be paid in six two-month wars during the year. So we are doing the maximum possible at this point to correct everything that has ruined our society. When we talk about free study, right, the study was free in Serbia for the past 10 years, but life was very expensive. Studying at Belgrade University was free, but student life was very expensive. It was not made by opposition representatives, not by families; it was expensive by the authority that recognised the greatest evil in the students. The life of peasants has been very difficult and it is difficult today, but it is expensive because of the consequences that we are removing, and whose sole cause you have actually been able to hear from this assembly pay phone from the critics of the former government.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23341	We move on to Article 84, to which the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Rajko Baralic, Toma Busetic and Bora Stanimirovic. Does anyone in the name of the amendment want a word? There's a word from MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23342	Dear Mrs. Komic, I usually have compliments on how you run the Assembly, but, please, reason with some MPs, it really doesn't make any sense how they behave. Mr. Korać, you claimed this morning, when I submitted the amendment to another member, that exactly all frequencies were completely public and available to everyone, right? That's right, well, in article 84, the legislator hid two frequencies. One belonging to RTS, or both, belongs to RTS, one belongs to Novi Sad TV and the other to Belgrade. So my colleagues from the SPS and I wrote the amendment, let me read it: "Article 84 paragraph 3 changes and it says - RTS broadcasts a radio program in three networks in VHS range, and one state (national) program is broadcast in the MF range over one or two powerful transmitters of hundreds of kilowatts of expressed power." A new item 4 is added behind the existing item 3 which reads: "Television programme is broadcast over three networks in VHF/UHF range. "The existing attitude 4 becomes attitude 5 and it says: "RTS broadcasts a programme for the area of autonomous province into three networks in the UHF range, and TV programme in two networks, both in VHF and UHF range." If you carefully read how the legislator predicted this member, what I said is absolutely correct. We don't care if you accept this amendment. We're interested in whom two channels are reserved that are now being used by TV Novi Sad and TV Belgrade. Ask any of the tech engineers who take care of direct TV transmissions from this room, they'll tell you exactly what this is about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23343	The word has a proposalary representative, Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Zarko Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23344	Dear Mrs. Comic, honourable MPs, not so many of us who are in this room, but because of the public who is watching this, by the way, through RTS, which some are no longer suddenly interested in, and these cameras are the connection you have with the public and those people who are sitting here and doing this transmission, are also officials and people who are working on that same radio -- television, which some people here are worried about losing funds, essentially, I'd like to say the following -- there's no secrets, and there's nothing that would mean hiding. Dear People's MPs, anything that didn't belong to or won't belong to RTS, or RT Novi Sad, is going to the competition. So your question should be very direct -- which is why it's suggested that RTS has no more three television channels than two; that's practically your question. The reasons were -- do we even have the means to maintain this scope that we have in public service? So here's the only reason financially, so there's no possibility with these funds available to RTS today. We went to a limit. There's one more reason, and that's to give you a chance that someone else will show up at the competition. Because we can't burden Serbian citizens, even if we're introducing a subscription, that they pay so many channels; they simply can't pay for it, they don't have opportunities and ways, and the question is whether so many channels are needed, both radio and television. As you well know, honourable Members of the People have come from Vojvodina very harsh remarks, not only of the broadcasting institutions and the Secretary for Informing the Executive Council of the Vojvodina Assembly, but also of the Vojovdine Assembly, where they are asking for the return of the second channel of TV Novi Sad. We have done so, given that this would have political consequences and would be poorly understood in Vojvodina and Serbia as well. In other words, what has been done here has been done solely for the purpose of saving, and because of the assessment that this program, an existing one, can be compressed into two channels, as well as because more participants would appear in the competition, that some alternative ones appear, that there is the possibility of another competing. Just what's more important as my answer - nothing is hidden, what's not going to be entered here as a member of the public broadcasting service, and RTS and the province TV Novi Sad, will absolutely go to the competition, and this competition will be carried out according to the radio frequency plan provided for by the Telecommunications Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23345	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Toma Busetic, Velimir Zivojinovic, Joca Arsic, Ljubisa Maravic, Dragan Jovanovic and Sreten Mitrovica together submitted an amendment proposing an amendment to the title of supertitle above article 85. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? There's a word from the People's Messenger Tom Bushetic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23346	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the parliamentary group has proposed to amend the title above article 85, so that instead of the "radio-television institution of Serbia", it should be "Radio-Television of Serbia". We believe that RTS is a widely accepted name and that change in Serbia's radio facility is not a fundamental character. You know, RTS is an established name that shouldn't be changed. Which means at all, the Serbian or RS radio facility, I don't think even the abbreviations are appropriate even though I like the Russians very much. It is necessary to keep RTS, because, simply, RTS is a symbol of Serbia's unity, RTS is a symbol of our people's patriotic struggle for freedom. RTS declined at the moment when the Serbian people were exposed to unprecedented terror and hai, above all in Croatia and Bosnia, and RTS made an immeasurable contribution to spreading the truth about the crimes of Ustasha and Muslims and...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23347	National MP, it is in your interest, I remind you, it is in your personal interest to return to the content of the amendment, please return to the content of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23348	Please, what's the subject, why the RTS and not the RUS?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23349	I repeat, I am under obligation, under Article 84(2), to remind Members of everything that involves everyday work in the Assembly, and I would ask you to respect this remark. It is in your interest to return to the explanation of the name itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23350	Absolutely, I'm right. Please, we know very well that RTS also had errors, but those mistakes were seen first of all in the fact that it was no longer RTS provided for Protic, Mihajlovic, perhaps Professor Korać, because if the people had looked at it, they would never have gotten it (Even though it was anonymous, no one knew about Chad), DOS would never win the elections. And in the end, I would not agree if there were ten years behind us of tragic rule. It was a difficult time, a time of survival, but also a time of honor and dignity. We now have a very difficult and economic and social situation, and as a people and as a state, we are endlessly humiliated.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23351	People's MP, for a statement to the speaker that we are humiliated as a people and a state, I give you my first warning. Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23352	Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment points to a serious problem. I think that in this solution of yours, the most beautiful thing that could have been done by Serbia's broadcasting institutions is RUS. After the Serbian term for the Serbian soul, it is the most beautiful term, the RS and Russia, nothing better than that. And Stalin was more democratic than Clinton certainly, therefore, but the character of Russian history, Mr. Korac, as you are, I suppose, Serbian history, regardless of which nationality you are, is not important, so has Stalin to be in Russian history. It's not the subject of an amendment. I think, first of all, that there is no reason to change the name Radio - Television of Serbia, is a much nicer name: Radio - TV of Serbia, rather than a broadcasting institution of Serbia. Secondly, you're talking about an establishment here. The establishment is an organisation under tighter control than a public enterprise. The public enterprise has a higher degree of freedom than the executive authority, rather than the institution. What are institutions? Museums, universities, schools - primary and secondary, hospitals, etc. They're institutions. Public enterprises are areas of the so-called area. public-legal corporations and much more has a basis for RTS to be a public enterprise than a public institution. You, of course, didn't get it that way. In other places, you talk about RTS, or about a broadcasting facility as a public service, but in our legal system, the public service does not say anything. The service is talking about services; the public - it's about public services. What public service is provided by this service called the Serbian Broadcasting Institute? What are public services - public information service? Is informing public service, let's discuss this issue on a theoretical level. Information - public service, I don't believe. I don't believe informing is a public service. If it's a public service, then not everyone has to use it. You are forcing all those who have a radio and TV receiver to be users of the service of this public service. You're pushing them, you're charging them in advance, as if you're assuming that each of them must be a beneficiary of these services. Let him have the right to say - thank you, I'm sick of your services and I don't want your services anymore, I found someone better to serve me. Like when a man has one hairdresser... (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. )......................................................................................................... So he gives him certain services, he cuts it; he says, "Thank you, I don't want your services anymore, I want someone else." It's in the field of service like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23353	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? If not, we move on to Article 85. Members of the 85th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Toma Busetic, Velimir Zivojinovic, Joca Arsic, Ljubisa Maravic, Dragan Jovanovic and Sreten Mitrovic. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Toma Bushetic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23354	Please, the concept is the same: so we're in favour of Serbia's Radio - Television, not Serbia's broadcasting facility, and if that's the case, then we'd be erasing this position 2. So, there would be no denominations between the Serbian-Vojvodina broadcasting facility, there would be a unique Radio-Television of Serbia; and in this third position where the immovableities and resources of the infrastructure, meaning buildings and antenna systems, all of this would be given to the use of RTS without compensation, and not to some contract with the Republic of Serbia Property Directorate. That is the essence of this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23355	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? If not, we move on to the amendment relating to the amendment to the amendment to the title of the superscription above Article 86. National MPs Toma Busetic, Velimir Zivojinovic, Joca Arsic, Ljubisa Maravic, Dragan Jovanovic and Sreten Mitrovica together submitted an amendment proposing an amendment to the title of supremacy above Article 86. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? Yeah. ) National MP Joca Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23356	Dear fellow MPs, it has already been said what the essence of this amendment is; it means that the amendment 86 is also following a trail of previous amendments, where it is required to remain the same name as the Serbian Radio Television instead of this new proposed name, to be a RS or a Serbian broadcasting institution. I have nothing against the Russians or the Americans, but I point to one special thing here that has not been mentioned so far, and I think by changing the name of this facility, or call it whatever you want, it doesn't get anything of quality, it just causes certain costs. We had one flood of changes in the name of parts of cities, streets, which caused no cost. Here it is forgotten that every change in the name bears and changes in everything that stands in the administration of a particular institution or institution, an enterprise, that it costs, that a new registration is needed, that a change of seals, a change of memoranda, a change of everything. A change in the name of a large street in Belgrade costs citizens who live there to change their ID cards because the address changes, the name changes; it costs a lot of citizens. We're here to say that the facility that should be the service of the citizens... Can we take a break? Vojo, take her out, please, to finish this part of the story. As I said, one of the reasons why you should keep the old name is the possibility of creating costs by changing this name, and as I said is harmonizing... It's not worth it. As soon as I start, they start again. If possible, this change will certainly not increase the salary of RTS, nor improve the quality of the program. We have spoken here on several occasions, and the government's representative also spoke very positively about a previous period of Serbian Radio-Television, which had extraordinary programs and extraordinary shows, in which he himself participated; they bear the RTS sign, bear the RTS seal, and I don't think it should be ignored and forgotten by eradicating and putting a new name, which brings nothing new or concrete. It's simple, it's just going to cost.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23357	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Vojislav Seselj submitted to Article 87 of the amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 87 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Kovacevic. I ask the MPs, I know this is already the eleventh hour of work, to invest a little more human will, energy and concentration to continue to work on the amendments and debate in particular. So, on Article 87, the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Kovacevic. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 87 of the amendment was submitted by MP Velimir Simonovic. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Toma Busetic, Velimir Zivojinovic, Joca Arsic, Ljubisa Maravic, Dragan Jovanovic and Sreten Mitrovica. Is anyone answering for word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? No, I don't. ( b) Does any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) At the meeting of the Committee on Culture and Information, MP Branislav Kovacevic withdrew the amendment that he submitted to Article 89, which stopped the amendment from being discussed in particular. The 90th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Toma Busetic, Velimir Zivojinovic, Joca Arsic, Ljubisa Maravic, Dragan Jovanovic and Sreten Mitrovic. You're looking for a word in the Rules of Procedure? The word has been made by MP Vojislav Seselj, president of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group, an objection to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23358	You skipped my amendment to Article 87. You're obliged to ensure that every word of yours is heard. If this is your new tactics so much as to make sure that nothing is heard, if you accidentally called that amendment, then it's your problem and you have to solve it, but you couldn't hear in the O.R. that you mentioned my amendment to Article 87. There were several other people's amendments that I missed on purpose to talk about my amendment to Article 87.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23359	The skill is provided and you can check in the stenogram that I have repeated the question of each amendment when reading your amendment to article 87. To hear that, you must be prepared to listen to the chairman when he talks about the text of the amendment. Therefore, the statement of injury to the Rules of Procedure does not stand. You can check in the stenogram, you heard it on the air. On behalf of the applicants for the amendment to Article 90, the People's MP, Toma Busetic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23360	This is about the selection of the Director-General, it's about jobs or rights and the duties of the Director-General. The SPS parliamentary group has proposed that a provision be introduced as a legislative regulation, which would say that the Director-General must have at least a high level of expertise and at least five years of work experience in journalism. Of course, in paragraph 3, we have a change: instead of a broadcasting institution - Serbian Radio-Television. I think it's a very bad experience, especially at a local level. It doesn't necessarily mean that now it's some real projection, but at a local level very often, just since the DOS's arrival in power, many directors of public enterprises and state authorities are people with medium, low professional training, and let's make these conditions very clear here.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23361	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 92 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23362	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 92(3) in accordance with my previous amendment to Article 87. I am looking at article 92 in paragraph 3 where "The Programme Committee has 18 members elected by the National Assembly" to be the point, because I have already asked for the recast of Article 87 and that it is the authority of the Serbian broadcasting institution is the board of directors." I've been looking for 15 here, and it's not a problem for 18 members. However, I asked that members of the board of directors be appointed and resolved by the National Assembly on a proposal from the parliamentary groups; that the parliamentary group should propose members of the board of directors by a proportion of the number of MPs it has in the National Assembly; that the term of office of the board of directors shall be as long as the mandate of the National Assembly which has chosen them; that the National Assembly shall, within three months of the date of constitution, elect a board of directors, a new board of directors after each new constitution, and that the board of directors, previously, remain in office until the election of the new board of directors. This means that it is most appropriate that something of its nature, the original nature, belongs to the sphere of executive power -- but it is too dangerous if the executive authority monopolizes that area, when it comes to state television, because we have seen in the past what it looks like when only one party manages -- exemptions from the area of executive power and assigns it to the legislative authority. When something that is the nature of matters of the executive authority due to the seriousness of the problem is transformed into the jurisdiction of the legislative authority, it does not touch the basic principles of the legal order. When the composition of the governing board of Serbian Radio-Televisions or a broadcasting institution, as you call it, is proportional to the structure of the National Assembly, then it is the most appropriate way to ensure objectivity, impartiality, how objectively possible in practice. And then there will be problems, but certainly much less than when state television is run by the government directly or by a government's hidden authority, on which the government will have an exclusive impact on the constitution. All members of your board of directors will be men of power. Everyone. The agency is organized by the people of power. The total will be control, as so far, by the ruling factor, and the opposition will not participate at all in the management, and where you ask the opposition to understand you, to understand your point of view and your position, your goal, you cannot expect it. It's not too late to think about whether this is how you conjecture the way state television is going to be run by you when the government changes soon. I'm sure it won't suit you. Previously, many in this room, when there were words of a change in power, they retaliated: oho-ho, oho-ho, as the cry from the O.R. is now heard. It was before that. You're not showing anything new here. It's not like there are people among you who think that your authority is eternal. Such authorities have never been in history, ever. It can't even be yours anymore. A time of regret may come because of this impatience towards the opposition institution itself. I understand you hate SRS. You hate us because you can't do anything to us. [[growls]] We are insurmountable to you...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23363	National MP, you cannot express your views regarding the private life and emotions of others.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23364	There's no private life here.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23365	As well as the knowledge of other faces' feelings.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23366	This is about political hatred and you should know that there is a category of political hatred in political theory.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23367	In the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, there is a practical application of the provision prohibiting such expression of views at the congregation speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23368	First, this is a term that speaks of one concept that exists in life. Well, yeah, you can do hundreds of yellow and red charts, but you can't win those charts. That's the point. I can't seem to convince you that there's an impossible victory for you, because "whose law lies in the topless tracks smell of inhumanity." That's right. Whenever you can't master the argument, you topuze, and by the head of the one who makes the argument. There are also hard heads where no cannon can achieve its goal. That's the kind of head he's got. He knows Shandor, he confirms it to you. One of those heads is right in front of you. Whatever cannon you bring, whatever you swing, it's not worth it. So I would suggest that the Government accept my amendment to Article 87 and the next amendment to Article 92, because they are directly linked, because they are meaningful, meaningful and fully compatible with democratic principles.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23369	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Toma Busetic, Velimir Zivojinovic, Joca Arsic, Ljubisa Maravic, Dragan Jovanovic and Sreten Mitrovica. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 4. The Rules of Procedure of the Legislative Committee have rejected this amendment, which is why this amendment cannot be the subject of a debate at the session of the National Assembly, as referred to in Article 142 paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure. The amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj to Article 94. The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj has the word. Will you use all six minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23370	Ladies and gentlemen, by amendment to Article 94, I request that Section 5 be deleted. Paragraph 5 states - for members of the Management Board of the Vojvodina Broadcasting Institution, the agency appoints persons who live and work in the AP Vojvodina area. For the same reasons (not my amendment and no need to throw) from which I spoke against your article in 87 and 92 explaining my amendments, with the amendment now referring only to the region of Vojvodina. You know, if you were to take care of the legal structure of this law, and in such a structure, in order to be consistent, you had to come up with an agency at the level of Vojvodina that would be a pandan for this agency at Serbia's level; if you wanted to be consistent. It makes no sense for the agency at Serbia's level to appoint members of the board of directors for television that acts exclusively at the level of Vojvodina. That absolutely doesn't make sense. You should, therefore; of course I do not advocate it, but I am telling you how in legal terms your law is inconsistencies. Now you insist on being people who live and work in the AP Vojvodina area. You set two conditions - and live and work. What if someone lives and doesn't work there and they watch TV there? He lives in the Banovci, works in Batajnica, and in the Banovci he watches television - he can't. Or if someone doesn't live in Vojvodina and works in Vojvodina. There are other people on TV Novi Sad who live in Belgrade, before. I think it's possible that there are more people living in Belgrade who are going to work there. As has a professor of the University of Novosad who lives in Belgrade and travel to Novi Sad to do their job. This is from that point of view also pointless and vice versa. So, why this condition -- that lives and works in the area of the AP Vojvodina? What does that mean now? You and this problem would have been the most elegant solution, of course, I do not plead to form an agency at the level of Vojvodina, most elegantly you would have solved it if you privatized it under the emergency TV Novi Sad. One part of the action for free workers, one part to sell, as the Privatisation Act predicts, in public bid and to eliminate the problem as a political problem. I'm convinced that this television will be much more quality than private, than state or public service, as you say. You are entering a new term to mark something that is state-owned. You see, there are old management professors with us who say, in the first lessons of their textbook, public means state. They're absolutely right. All that's public is also state. Whether the state directs or trusts someone else's administration, it's from this aspect completely insignificant. When you say public service, it's like saying public service. There's no difference. After all, your agency is a state institution, and by all characteristics, by way of constitution, by jurisdiction; and not only is it a state institution, but it is an institution in the executive system. And what you formally separated her from the government is a matter of not knowing the basic legal principles on which the legal order rests. I don't seem to be able to put things in your head enough here, and I don't know for what reasons, or because you don't accept the Priors or because it's absolutely impossible. In the position of the 6th of this Article, I would suggest that, in addition to the Programme Committee, the Management Board be set up, because why would the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina appoint a programming committee rather than a board of directors. The board of directors sets up an agency for Serbia's broadcasting, and the programme board of the AP Vojvodina Assembly. Is that logical? How are you with the state television of Serbia? Why is that set up differently? Why is there a certain composition here, and there's no composition at the Vojvodina Assembly? At the Vojvodina Assembly, the structure of the Assembly itself can be satisfied and parliamentary groups suggest it. Can you do that, Mr. Korach? Did you leave room for that? Can this, within the same legal order, two such diametrically contradictory principles in practice live? In the context of the modern legal order, he can't do that. As part of that legal order that you're creating, unfortunately, it can, but fortunately very temporary.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23371	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Branislav Grubaski tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 94 be added after article 94. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Does any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 95 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23372	Ladies and gentlemen, with my amendment, I ask that article 95 as regards civil-sector radio stations be completely deleted. You see, here you use the term radio - television stations, and in previous legal parameters you avoid it. In many places I have asked you to use that term consistently. Is this now proof that several people were doing different segments of the law, so they didn't need the terminology, or is it something else? Paragraph 1 states: "Radio or television stations of the civil sector are those cells that satisfy specific interests of individual social groups and civil society organisations." Of course they have their specific interests, but they're mostly specific interests of five, six people, sometimes one or two people. Is that sufficient reason for them to have the right to form radio - television stations under privileged conditions to weigh their interests? I don't think so. That's why I'm asking it to be erased. Item 2: "The founder of a radio or television station referred to in Article 1 may be a non-profit civil society organisation (non-governmental organisation or association of citizens)". Now you're trying to bring these civil society organizations closer together. Why didn't you do it at the beginning of the law? Next, you're saying they're nonprofits. Are you sure? They are non-profit compared to our tax authorities, since yet no tax authority has been able to trace them. But if they came closer to exploring, if they found out who they were getting all the money from and for what purpose, the situation would be completely different. The third position: "The content of the programme that broadcasts the civil sector's radio or television stations must be related to the area of activity of the NGO or the association of citizens, which is the founder of the station". Imagine Biljana Kovacevic - Vuco, Natasa Kandić or Sonja Biserko as the owners of these TV stations under the privileged conditions of operation. It is further said: "A civil sector radio or television station can only be established a local area". So you will have them at different levels; Natasa Kandic in Belgrade as a matrix, and then in each municipality one clone, one copy at a time. Here you're still saying, "I can't do business on a profit basis." First of all, none of them are doing business on a profit basis. You are all aware that it is impossible in that sphere to achieve profit for a long time. When you also dismember Zeljko Mitrovica, you will see that there is no profit from broadcasting, that everything is based on some other illegal activities. But he'll come after that time. Furthermore, there are several general provisions, and then you say, "The funds for the operation of civil-sector radio or television stations can be provided from donations (whose donations)? ), the contribution of citizens (yet, citizens will make contributions to their television stations), sponsorship or other sources of income, in accordance with a special law governing the establishment and operation of an association of citizens and NGOs. The provisions of this law relating to broadcasting services apply to the achievement of revenues through sponsorship and advertising." What's the big deal here? Before you gave these NGOs these rights, you should have regulated their work by law, to see if NGOs could get money from abroad. According to the U.S. Congress, it was dozens and hundreds of millions of dollars. Maybe that's a little bit for you. Maybe someone who doesn't report to the U.S. Congress gives more. But here you are afraid of foreign private faces, rich people who could invest in our broadcasting, because of possible abuse, and you're not afraid when foreign governments give money so-called. to NGOs of a non-profit nature, because no one gives money without special interest and their own goal. Free cheese is only found in a mousefish. No one who got the money got that money without any intention. There are some of you who have been getting money from abroad. Everyone who received money, I don't exempt anyone from foreign government or non-governmental organizations, worked intensively against their people and states and should not be entitled to their own radio or television stations.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23373	The word is made by a representative of the promoter, Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Zarko Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23374	Dear Mrs Comic, honourable MPs, I am still forced to stand up in defense of the possibility that, according to the bill, radio stations will receive certain civil society organisations (non-governmental organisations or associations of citizens). I am sorry that it is exclusively through the political glasses of those NGOs with whom someone has a political dispute or with the personalities they have founded and led, as publicly as possible and publicly, of course, they see all NGOs. I just want to say briefly, first of all, for the sake of citizens who are watching this: NGOs, that very term of "civil sector organisation", is one concept that has developed in the Western world in the last few decades, and it marks all those organisations of citizens that are independent of the state, self-organization of people who have nothing to do with the state. It's a Nucleus of something that could be called the freedom of citizens, the independence of citizens to enter the country. I'd like to remind you that such an organization can be an organization of disabled people, it could be an organization of war people with disabilities mentioned here. Which is why we are constantly talking about these several NGOs who are speaking in an ideological or political dispute, and there is no way that many other NGOs in this country will have their own radio or, possibly, although I doubt it will be much, television station. So, can blind associations have enough opportunities, because these are distinct civil and non-governmental organisations. Is there any kind of ecological association, for example? He's fighting for a pure Pancheva, to gain the opportunity to have a radio station at some point. Could it be some kind of organization that takes care of some specific aspect of health or any kind of life in our country? I honestly think that the wrong NGOs saw it as an eminent political one. That doesn't mean some of them aren't like that. This does not mean that some of them do not have any such performed function in society, but the largest number of NGOs, civil society organisations are nothing more than a group of people organised over a socially relevant topic. At some point, with the development of our society, with the possibility of these groups or individuals being something richer, there will be a possibility that they will eventually compete to win, if they exist, if they have conditions, radio frequencies or radio broadcasting permits. That's all. I don't think we should be against this possibility, to strengthen the institutions of society as such and the independence of institutions and groups, small organisations, within our society.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23375	Anybody else answer for a word? The word is from MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the DOS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23376	Mrs. Komic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this member of the law deserves to be commented not only on the arguments mentioned by Mr. Korac and who have fully explained our motivation in this particular sense, but above all on the comparison of this legal solution with the laws governing the area of broadcasting in modern Europe. One of the biggest surprises, when we met with representatives of international organisations, above all the Council of Europe and the OSCE, was the conclusion that we had the courage to introduce among other things in the Law on Broadcasting and Article 95, which is fully ungovernmental, civil sector of our society allowed the formation of a radio or television station at local level. This kind of freedom is indeed a major democratic step and I don't think we have any reason to hesitate to vote or possibly withdraw amendments to this Article 95. On the other hand, I would point out some of the trends that existed in our society that ended in the early 1990s. First of all, I think of the right given to youth councils, whether it is the youth council of Belgrade, Serbia or Yugoslavia, to form their own radio and television productions and programmes that really had a very important importance in education and training of generations, which I belong to. From Noja slavisha Kunst and "Young" in Slovenia, via Radio 101 in Zagreb, Radio Index 202 or "Ritma of the Heart" in Belgrade, to television that worked very briefly, but really had a big, immeasurable impact by breaking and breaking taboos. Here I think of the Youth Channel that existed in Belgrade in early 1989 for three or four months. He was way ahead of the third channel. It was a project of state television, but I think it's a technological step that certainly gives us the right to leave opportunities for the non-governmental sector to develop, because I think these specific interests that bring people together into a non-profit NGO can be interests that will contribute to the development of our society. I don't mean the political, but the kind of interest Mr. Korac mentioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23377	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 96 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here's a word from MP Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23378	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with my amendment to Article 96, I ask that the deadline for local television be reduced. Unlike your Article 96, which has eleven views, I ask that there be only one position -- that radio and television stations, which were founded by local communities, regional communities or congregations of cities, continue to work in the current status for another year from the date of entry into force of this law. This implies that they should be privatised within that time limit. There's no reason to get much on the privatization. These aren't particularly high values when buying shares. One percent, by law, can certainly be distributed free shares, but you here allow this four-year deadline, that other SOs form their local radio and television stations. So not only do you leave those who already exist in life, but to show up new ones, so within four years to privatize. That's the point of this member. I know, but you don't respect federal law, let alone the moratorium of the federal government. The federal government no longer exists. There's a federal law on systems of connections that you don't respect about the assignment of frequencies and you're trampling it out with this law. Neither the federal government nor the federal president, it's clear that you've already abolished all this. Maybe the cabinet still exists. Because you wouldn't have anyone else to mate with Baby Popovic. That's the meaning of my amendment. As for Mr. Korac, who represents here on behalf of the government of this law, he speaks quite nicely, but his speech has nothing to do with legal principles and the essence of the problem. He's telling us about all the social organizations, all the NGOs. Only, Mr. Koraq, television is a very expensive toy, only one who has a lot of money can afford a nonprofit TV station. And who in these NGOs has a lot of money? Only one who receives direct fighting from abroad. In these few names I can add the name Sonja Licht and a few others. I didn't mention them because of my personal animosity, although he exists. I don't put it in the first place here, but it's organizations that are really getting a lot of money. And hunting society has no money to form television, no alliance of fishermen, no other similar social organization. So, television will only form one who has a lot of money. Why in this case do I advocate to shorten the privatisation deadline for local television? For the same reason the TV station is a very expensive toy and for municipalities. I'm rather informed about that myself. I was the president of the municipality and I made many advances by planning the eventual formation of local television. When I saw how expensive that was, I gave up. It's much better to pave the way, make water, sewer, etc., rebuild the facades. (Glasses: That is why the people have rewarded you. That which the people have rewarded will be seen in the final outcome. You're too... You think it's already been the final outcome? [[Laughter]] No, you're wrong. It was just a tiny interphase. A year, a year and a half, two years at the top of your head, nothing more passing in the history of the Serbian people will be than your authority, and nothing more devastating for the people who have been in power than the experience of this short-lived rule, be assured. There's nothing left, absolutely nothing for which the people would praise you for these two years, absolutely nothing exists. Nothing. There's not a single point. Don't kid yourself too much. Imagine -- after so many results, so many successes in Zemun, I lost power. Imagine what awaits you without any results, with a catastrophic situation, with the destruction of society in all fields.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23379	I ask the MP to return to the content of the amendment to Article 96 or to bring about a loss in the Zemun elections to this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23380	So this little money that's been given to local self-government units needs to be focused as soon as possible on using it to solve municipal problems, to keep local radios and television stations out of sight, to immediately privatise everything, so that some income can be made for the state. I'd even go to it if everything that happens by privatising a local television station goes to the municipality's infrastructure. And, of course, to keep away from sports spheres and club formations, tutoring over clubs, because you know for yourself -- wherever politicians get involved in sports, that sport goes down, and the mafia blooms. Politicians are the most stimulating mob in sports -- and politicians of the former regime, and politicians of your regime, we make absolutely no difference. Who of the politicians interferes in sports, who imposes on sports clubs, I know in advance that he's a criminal, that he has no clean and fair intentions.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23381	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? There's a word from MP Zoran Angelkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23382	Ladies and gentlemen, these last three members are talking about the privileged in this area. So, in some ways, they're privileged in that sense that, though, one of them gets the revenue from the subscription, the other one doesn't get the income, but they don't pay the fee, and the other one doesn't pay any fees for neither the frequency nor the broadcasting program. If the national task, as we heard the other day from the Prime Minister, is to privatise 1,000 companies in Serbia, then it is logical to accept this amendment and give the next year a national task to privatise these TV and radio stations across Serbia, which are of local importance. Why? You know, if it is said that in the next four years they will be privatised, they will, in fact, come into a increasingly difficult position, because if we say that the Republic government will not in the Republic of Serbia's budget to allocate money for RTS, there will be no more RTS than for broadcasting, then it is logical that even the municipal government cannot allocate funds for local radio television. If they're not out of funds, they're still working badly, but if they're not out of funds, and they haven't paid any obligations to broadcast movies yet, so on and so forth, they're gonna have to pay now. At least that's where they have to have the same status as the state because they're going to be sued by the one who owns that movie. If they start paying, and they will have to, and no privatisation is done and no one is interested in them until the end, except that they manage these local radio televisions, then we will objectively get something that is no longer called radio-television, but is called only by name; then it is logical that already, when the Assembly wants to do the privatisation, they say that it is done over the next year and that whoever wants to invest there invests and continues to develop and local radio-television, in which 20-30 years something has been invested. Unfortunately, and where there are two local radio stations and where there is one municipal, this municipality is, quite certainly, already in a much worse position today than some other local or television station in that community, which does not belong to the local government.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23383	The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23384	Dear Mrs. Comic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is no reason for a different kind of treatment. If, by passing the law on privatisation, we have laid down the process for four years, we have established certain rights and obligations for all participants in this privatisation. And if we were to say today that public-owned television stations must be privatised within a year, we would reduce those rights guaranteed to all other participants in the privatisation process. As a result, identical time limits have been established, with no one stopping those cells from privatizing within a shorter period of time. No one defends that, according to the Privatisation Act, it is tomorrow in a local assembly of municipalities to bring and adopt a competition, i.e. to begin the privatisation process through the determination of values, the engagement of a republican agency, therefore, through all the procedures laid down by the Privatisation Act. Already tomorrow, if there are funding problems, local self-government can use this law and run the privatisation process based on it. Any local self-government that has a funding problem will be very happy to launch it and thus disburse the municipal budget, because there is no longer this kind of need for local radio and TV stations, as was the case in the previous four years. We explained why and what made the difference between local TV and radio stations and this state -- in the program they broadcast. There's a big difference, professionally at the local level, and completely politicized at the level of the Republic. There are different opportunities today, and that's why four years are the deadline, it can start tomorrow.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23385	If no one is answering for a word anymore, we will move to the second amendment to Article 96 where amendments in the same text have been submitted by MPs Attila Juhas and Branislav Grubaski. Do any of the applicants of the amendment want a word? The word has been made by MP Branislav Grubaski.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23386	The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Vice-President of the Government, fellow MPs, the Honorable President of the Committee on Culture and Information, I gave up the discussion under the previous amendment, as I gave up one of the amendments to the Committee on Culture and Informing itself, for the simple reason to relax a little on one side of the Assembly or Committee, and on the other hand, to do something to experience some catharsis in this assembly and to sort of understand that proposals coming from the Vojvodina Assembly, which, given the circumstances, technical, unfortunate, whatever you want, are not able to suggest that they interpret here, will be explained here in some way by the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina. We have submitted the following amendment -- Article 96, paragraph 4, after the word "regional community" puts an end to the point, and the rest is deleted. Which is why - in that attitude, it is envisaged that the municipality can base only one radio station, and that one radio cannot have two programs. We think that this is not good in Vojvodina and that people in multinational environments, if they have technical and organisational opportunities and money to broadcast programmes in two languages, or in multiple languages, must be able to compete for these programs. There is, at the very end of the line, a broadcasting agency that will be able to decide on this, about the allocation of frequencies, and will be able to decide whether or not the request is justified. So this is really how it is for us, and I really expect this assembly to adopt it, with the technical questions that come after this member, and this member is not technical, but is very important to us in Vojvodina, although it is not adopted by the Committee on Culture and Information. So much for this.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23387	Are any of the other participants in the debate answering for a word? The word is made by MP Biachi Anton, president of the DOS-SVM parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23388	Dear Members of Parliament, I believe that the proposal for this amendment should be further explained if the proposal of Article 96 remains in this formulation as given and if privatisation follows within four years. I'm not talking, of course, about newly-compromised and politically-ractised radio stations that started their broadcast between 1990 and 2000, but exclusively about the public services of local communities, which are 30 and more years old and, regardless of what winds they were blowing, were always in the service of citizens; such as Radio Sombor, Radio Zrenjanin, Radio Kickinda and even Radio Srem, and of course Radio Subotica. For example, Radio Subotica has broadcast three programmes for 30 years -- a programme in Serbian, a programme in Hungarian and a programme in Croatian, three frequencies, two FM frequencies and one SF frequency, until it was wiped out by NATO bombs. So if we were to deny the possibility of these radio stations broadcasting two or more programs on two or more frequencies, I think that we would cause unwanted conconsequences and consequences in these local communities. For these reasons, I believe that this amendment of this Article should be seriously considered and that the Government should certainly adopt the amendment given by the MPs Mr Grubaski and Mr Juhas.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23389	The word is made by a representative of the promoter, Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Zarko Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23390	Dear Mrs Comic, the honourable MPs, it is my duty to respond to this amendment, especially because it was brought out by members of DOS parties. The request is justified, here it is practically required that in municipalities such as Senta (where is the proposer) or Subotica (where is the previous speaker) two frequencies are realized for radio or television, for one to be in Serbian and one to be in Hungarian. I must warn that there are municipalities in Vojvodina that are even trilingual and that it might take three frequencies, but the problem is that frequencies are like national treasures, they're actually terribly limited, and if this is properly done, how are we going to do by the end of the year, they're going to be relatively small. I'd just say an example, I'm not saying that in every municipality in Serbia, far from that, it takes you to have two, but if in principle this law is passed we'd have to enter some clause, what you didn't put into the amendment, that it applies only to municipalities where in some percentage people speak another language, not Serbian. Then it would mean, say, that in 120 municipalities in Serbia, if each has two frequencies for radio and two for television, and we ourselves said that between 300 and 400 frequencies are possible in Serbia, there will be no opportunity to privatise any radio or television station or any other that exists in a mixed composition. So the main problem here seems to be a relatively small number of frequencies. What is possible here, and what is not touched somewhere in this amendment, is: firstly, we gave the second channel to the circuit public broadcasting service, which should be explicit in the languages of the people. Secondly, what is very important is that no one prohibits the municipality from buying time on any private television or radio channel, in which it can bring out all the necessary things. Is it necessary for the municipality to have its own frequency, to have its own program, so to network, to connect more private stations and to buy time? I have to say that's true for all of Serbia, not specifically for those you're talking about, that it's that the municipality owns a radio-television station, some kind of luxury that is practically unknown to Europe. Believe me, I've been in many cities in Europe and it's almost unknown that municipalities have radio and television; even big cities don't have; but, come on, cities do. And I've been to countries that are considered the richest in Europe, like Norway. It's completely unimaginable in small municipalities. People watch these big or private channels that cover most of Norway or all of Norway. So, once again, the only reason the government can't accept this is because of the technical possibilities, the small number of frequencies in the air, when a radio frequency plan will go with the telecommunications law by the end of the year. Otherwise, in a political sense, your request is justified.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23391	If no one is answering for the word anymore, we move to the amendment to Article 96, which was submitted jointly by MPs Rajko Baralic, Toma Busetic and Bora Stanimirovic. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 4. The Rules of Procedure of the Legislative Committee rejected this amendment as incomplete, which is why it cannot be discussed at the meeting of the National Assembly and, under Article 142 paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure. National MPs Dusan Cvetkovic, Milan Jankovic and Hranislav Peric jointly proposed that Chapter VI and Articles 97, 98, 99, 100, 101 and 102 be deleted. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Dusan Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23392	Mrs. Komic, fellow MPs, although the time has passed, I would ask Mrs. Komic to allow me to say on behalf of the Socialist Party's MPs from the south that the materials for the four extraordinary sessions did not arrive at us in Leskovac, Pirot, but only on the day we were in Belgrade, so we were prevented from having a practical agenda. Just to ask that at least the agenda, at the moment the DOS adopts it or the government, be telegraphed to sort of be equal with the other fellow Members. To return now to the amendment relating to Chapter VI of this Act, i.e. Articles 97-102. - preventing illicit media concentration. Although in making a final version of this bill, at meetings held in the building of this assembly building at the end of May, the OSCE representatives made serious objections to the broad detail or as they said - fragmenting the independent media concentration, you, not listening to their request and their demands, even expanded it. Realising that this chapter does not comply with the generally accepted principle of transparency, we of the SPS Parliamentary Group have proposed that the entire Chapter VI be deleted. Our proposal to delete is based on the most restrictive way in which all the basic definitions of the market economy are deleted. And I'm saying this because these standards are practically choking the freedom of the media. How it is possible to threaten a potential broadcaster with even a ban on working because he wants to buy the capital of another TV station, and the ability of journalists and leaders who magically attract viewers and listeners, and therefore those who want to pay and advertise, they create large capital that they want to invest precisely in the media. Don't you DOS gentlemen think that the capital created in a TV station is someone who can do the best work just to invest in pig growing or milking cows? So I suggest you once again accept this recommendation from the OSCE and the Committee of the Council of Ministers of Europe that requested that you arrange this area with more delicacy, and delete the members of 97-102. When you rightly remove the main shortcomings in this chapter, in this area, or at least partially establish market relations, then it can certainly be regulated through additions to the law. I also note this because we will again have laws that we adopted six or seven months ago, or supplement them, so it is easy to enter these additions as well. You can do this in that way, since the law applies in chapter six, and in chapter seven, it goes with January next year that it can be done with this chapter six and until then this change is made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23393	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? If not, we move on to Article 104, to which the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23394	Ladies and gentlemen, in Article 104, all I propose is the introduction of a new attitude 7, with the current attitude of 7 moving and being a position of 8, which would be a vote, and it is about advertising and sponsorship: In advertising and TV shopping, the chosen, appointed and appointed persons in the federal government, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the executive bodies of autonomous provinces, ministers, their deputies, assistants, as well as managers of special organisational continents under the direct control of government and executive bodies and other officials. I think this ban is very important. We had a case of high-ranking executive officials showing up in some advertising videos; it wasn't, though, still in those videos that advertised sales, but it was in some other videos. All advertising videos have to be the same way... You had some action there, advertising this, advertising that, even some humanitarian action. That's not to be done by an executive officer either. The Executive Officer must not appear personally in a video that advertises it. He can't show up in any commercial, that's the point of this amendment. Of course, this can be expanded with officials of the legislative and judicial authority, and it would be very wise for the provision to also apply to agency officials, members of the broadcasting agency's board. By the nature of their position, they should not appear in any advertising video. I think it would be good, since you have time for the government to consider this amendment and install it. I didn't answer for a word by the previous group of amendments, because I think it's necessary to contain the monopolies in this sphere, that the concentration must be prevented, if someone can't get the national frequency to reach it by bypassing the locals. So that's a good solution, because all the monopolies in this sphere are very dangerous, so I took the opportunity to explain this amendment and point out that. Since the Socialists have asked for the removal of these few members, I have to tell them something: you Socialists are the biggest culprits, you Socialists are the main culprits that the DOS came to power.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23395	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Adam Urosevic. Are any of the applicants of the amendment answering for a word? No, I don't. ( b) Does any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Adam Urosevic. Are any of the applicants of the amendment answering for a word? No, I don't. ( b) Does any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 107 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23396	Here's what I'm gonna do. I'm not gonna use a full six minutes this time. This amendment is in line with my previous amendments. I've already talked about this so-called. to the civil sector, NGOs and their essence, so I ask in Article 107 to delete part of the text that reads "and the radio and television stations of the civil sector". It says: "Institute public broadcasting services and radio and television stations of the civil sector are forbidden to be intermediaries, representatives or to take over the role of advertisers in the name and in the account of third parties." I ask you to remove this civilian sector, because I expect you to accept all my previous amendments concerning the abolition of the intended privileges of the civil sector. Is Cedomir Jovanovic giving a warning now? So this warning is not valid.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23397	Go ahead and continue the presentation of your amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23398	That means every one of them is a member or manager of the so-called. NGOs had to form a private firm and compete equally with everyone else for the frequency, and no different. So, there's only a public and private sector. Public radio and television are public and all that is national at the local, regional, regional level. Private - everything else. All others have private status, with the fact that when you regulate the status of churches and religious communities by special law they have certain privileges over other privates. That would be acceptable, and for everyone else, it would simply be necessary to abolish the privileges.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23399	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Dusan Cvetkovic, Milan Jankovic and Hranislav Peric. Does anyone in the name of the applicant of the amendment want a word? The word is by MP Dusan Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23400	The Honorable presidency, fellow MPs, a Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group, which has a large number of people from southern Serbia, is particularly interested in local and regional television stations, not for some local patriotic reasons, but precisely because we in southern Serbia have the opportunity to watch very few television stations. We don't watch a third of them and we don't have a chance to see a third of Belgrade's stations over cable television. That is why we have submitted an amendment to Article 108. The bill, which treats advertising and the length of advertising on local TV stations. We have proposed in Article 108, which limits the duration of advertising on local and regional television to 10% of the daily broadcast programme, to erase it. It is completely illogical, fellow MPs, to limit the time for advertising to these local stations, which are practically the only source of funding, because there are no other sources. Especially when nothing is set aside from this TV subscription provided for at the level of the Republic. We've been trying to convince people that part of the TV subscription is being transferred to local TV stations, so that a bar show of techniques can be restored. Because you know that TV studios are so made at the bar that, as we put it, it's practically done technology and studies are concluded, so we think that part of it should have been separated; but when it isn't, then at least we don't have to limit the length of the advertising. You canceled, gentlemen of the DOS, a single-mark TV subscription and introduced a seven-mark TV subscription. Now you government gentlemen will provide Serbian television with 600-700 million dinars a month. That's something; just now Mr. Jovanovic said that the government now stands out 100-120 million dinars, and now you're going to set aside 600-700 million. Because you stand out for them, they will not celebrate you and write about you praises, but I suppose Mr. Vice President of the Government will also be posthumously celebrated in that television, which he has managed to provide so much funds; and it is likely that Mr. Koraq will be a member or a man who decides on television for a lifetime, because these are enormously larger means than those who are being singled out right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23401	I ask you not to exceed your time and talk about a subject that is not related to the content of your amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23402	Let me just say, respected citizens, these funds and that fame that the DOS will acquire, and Ceda Jovanovic, and Mr. Korac is lying on your back. From that brand they freed you now they charge you a fee of seven marks.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23403	Three minutes and 30 seconds, despite the warning to return to the subject of your amendment, please, since you have more amendments, take seriously the obligation of respect for the Rules of Procedure when it comes to addressing other MPs and expressing views on the speaker. The word is made by a representative of the promoter, Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Zarko Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23404	Dear Mrs. Comic, the honourable MPs, you see, because of this way of speech, a clause on hate language was put in place. I never insulted anyone in public speech, and I especially didn't talk about what would be posthumous with someone. What will be posthumous with all of us will determine the generations to come. To translate into plain language - posthumously means after my death. So, you've found yourself invited to talk about my death here at the pay phone. I have to tell you that this is not a good way to do it, and that this is not going to bring back any dignity to this congregation. I have to tell you something else, I kept my mouth shut two days ago when someone from your MP group said I was a defeated force from the eighth session and a senior official of the Communist Union. I'm so attached to the eighth session that I've watched on TV, and I've never been a high-ranking official of the Communist Union in my life, it can be checked. That's irrelevant. I didn't react. Please, dear colleague, since we are all colleagues here, the people have chosen us at some job to help him live better, to talk about what is the subject of our conversation, which is one member of the bill. So, I don't have any personal anger in relation to what you said, but I don't think it's a good idea to talk about people, talk about character, about personality, about life, about death, not talking about what the interests of the citizens of this country are, which is what kind of law we have to regulate radio and television. I have to, in relation to the content you've been talking about about the amendment, let me tell you the following. I don't know how you got the sum, how you calculated it, that's your estimate of how many households in this country have TV and radio. Well, to leave a completely open question, we're not sure that many of them will pay and try to avoid it. At this point, there's only one estimate of how much it could be. I must speak plainly, dear fellow MP, that sum is much, much smaller. As we're talking about now, I'm just going to tell you this -- in Slovenia, in the region from Macedonia to Slovenia, in the former Yugoslavia and in the region that is wider than the former Yugoslavia, these percentages are very different as they stand out for the former state television. I must warn you, please listen to me, just to say this, that the percentage of the 60, 70 million euros is up to 120, 130 million euros in Slovenia. In other words, huge funds are being allocated; Slovenia, which has two million residents at this time, stands out about 20 times as much as Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23405	A representative of the SPS parliamentary group, MP Zoran Angelkovic, and MP Vojislav Seselj reportedly. Here comes Grandma posthumously. I really do beg your pardon MPs, all MPs, this is the 12th hour of work and it takes a lot of will to reach the concentration. I'm sitting here with you and I need the same will to concentrate. Since we have begun to give in to elementary communication, the next process of the chairman will be a clear division of the reminders and all measures for all MPs who do not have enough concentration to sit in the hall. I'm really asking you. Here you go, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23406	Mrs. Komic, this only shows that you should not actually work for 15 hours, because then you lose concentration and use terms that are not worthy and necessary for this assembly. Let's get back to this article. Here's the point of putting the civil sector and local radio-televisions back in the same basket. It's really necessary to find a way to separate it. The civil sector, as you call it, I'd call social enterprises. When 10 citizens start something, it's like a social enterprise, and according to the Constitution, all properties are equal, social, private and state-owned. We now have state and private and now we've returned social property, and I understand that as a need. It needs to be separated, because objectively it's not the same. These are state institutions, state states, when I say local authorities, of course, and this is the civil sector. If we were to say that they usually have funding problems, then we should probably find a way to reduce this restriction. When it comes to the length of the Socialists' stay in power, I'm absolutely sure - if we hadn't made a mistake choosing coalition partners, the DOS would never have come to power. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23407	The word is made by MP Vojislav Seselj, president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23408	I must admit, I'm not particularly clear on this amendment, or why it was filed. It is your right to submit vague amendments. However, you should plead which coalition partner has ruined you. It's left unsaid, as well as who's to blame for your fall from power. I'd like to make a brief remark to Žarko Korač, so I won't even use my time. On the occasion of this amendment, Zarko Korać spoke here about some euro. What does the euro mean? That doesn't mean anything in Serbian, Mr. Korac. You see, in various Member States of the European Union, this term is said differently. Some say the euro, the English say Europe, each with its own language. In our case, we usually treat Latin. If something is written, then the euro is read, if it is a foreign word of European origin.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23409	Please return to the content of the amendment to Article 108.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23410	As chairman, you were obliged to warn Mr. Korac not to say the euro, but to the euro.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23411	As chairman, I am obliged to warn you all that you owe in this assembly, and under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 8, to speak the Serbian Croatian language that is in use. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Adam Urosevic. Are any of the applicants of the amendment answering for a word? Any of the other authorized participants in the debate? The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Adam Urosevic. Are any of the applicants of the amendment answering for a word? Any of the other authorized participants in the debate? The amendment was submitted by MP Velimir Simonovic to Article 113. Are any of the applicants of the amendment answering for a word? No, I don't. ( b) Any of the other authorised participants in the debate? The amendment was submitted by MP Cedomir Jovanovic. The Committee on Culture and Information and a representative of the motionors at the meeting of the Committee adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I am aware that this amendment has become an integral part of this law. The amendment was submitted by MP Cedomir Jovanovic to Article 115. The Committee on Culture and Information and a representative of the motionors at the meeting of the Committee adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I am aware that this amendment has become an integral part of this law. The amendment was submitted by MP Cedomir Jovanovic. The Committee on Culture and Information and a representative of the motionors at the meeting of the Committee adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I am aware that this amendment has become an integral part of this law. The 116th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Radojko Petrovic, Zoran Andjelkovic, Velimir Zivojinovic, Milos Nesovic, Rajko Baralic, Nebojsa Jovic and Dusan Cvetkovic. The word has a folk MP, Radojko Petric.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23412	On behalf of the SPS with a group of MPs, I have tabled an amendment to amend Article 116. The first part of the amendment concerns the proposal to delete the position of the 2nd and 3rd members, which is in line with our amendment to Article 23, which provides the equal position of the ninth member of the agency's council, which should be from Kosovo and Metohija. The second part of the amendment refers to paragraph 4. In that position, the government proposed that the Agency's advice be required to elect a president and vice-president of the council within 15 days of the Council's completion, to adopt the statutes, rules of procedure and general acts on the internal organisation and systematisation of posts in the Agency. So, all within 15 days. It is logical that at the constitutional session, the Council shall elect the President and the Vice-President and adopt a Rules of Procedure. It is not logical to prescribe that the other most important normative acts of the agency, such as the statute, the internal organisation act and the systematisation of jobs, and others, can be adopted at the first session. As possible, members of the council, who are employed in their jobs in other institutions and firms, with all respect to their expertise and knowledge, shall, within 15 days of the day of the election, be informed of such complex and serious tasks of the Republic Broadcasting Agency so as to be able to bring into force the statutes and internal acts which regulate the number of jobs and others within such a short period of time. Indeed, with all the respect for the professional and moral qualities of the members of the Agency's council, we realize that they are not visible that within such short time of elections they can look at the Agency's problems and bring all the normative acts, and these acts are important for the life of this law. Due to the above, a more reasonable deadline is proposed. In fact, it is proposed to hold a constitutional session within 15 days of the election day, to elect the president and vice president and to adopt the Rules of Procedure on Labour and to adopt the statute and other normative acts on internal systemisation, the number of jobs and others for a further period of 15 days. A total of 30 days, proposed by the amendment, to bring in all necessary normative acts, is quite realistic. This deadline does not constitute a delay, but it is to prevent the adoption of acts by someone's dictatorship on both sides and in a hurry, without members of the council being able to participate in their adoption in the right way. So someone else needs to prepare, and they just lift two fingers and adopt. That's why I think it would avoid improvisation, that this 30-day deadline should be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23413	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? Yeah. ) The word is held by MP Vojislav Seselj, president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23414	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment I will speak in Serbian because that is the only language I know well, very well. Another reason is that according to the Federal Constitution, the language is prescribed as an official language throughout the SRJ. It is true that in the Republic Constitution there is a Serbian Croatian, but if the Republic Constitution and federals do not agree, the federal one is applied. This doesn't apply to you from the Republic. Let me explain to you why I speak Serbian about this amendment. The third is the reason that Croats never spoke Serbian through history, they spoke Cicevian and Caycauan, and Serbians accepted as their own at the time of the Ilir movement.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23415	People's MP, please use the language you choose, that's your freedom, but to speak in that language about the content of the amendment to Article 116.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23416	Listen, I'm able to speak to you in Russian now, both in English and Arabic, but you destimulated me, you made me angry, and I'm not going to talk about it anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23417	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 120 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Grubaski. The amendment guy doesn't want a word? Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 121 of the amendment was submitted by MP Cedomir Jovanovic. The Committee on Culture and Information and a representative of the Proposer at the meeting of the Committee adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Members of the 122nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Adam Urosevic. Do any of the applicants of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Any of the other authorised participants in the debate? No, I don't. This concludes the search of the bill in particular. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? The word is made by a representative of the promoter, Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Zarko Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23418	Mrs. Komic, the honourable MPs, I just wanted to thank you honestly for a very correct debate that really concerned the metrics. She was a little bit more cheerful than I expected, there were some sparks, but considering our parliamentary tradition, where it is usually spoken without measure and often, unfortunately, very intolerant, I think this was, at least by my personal assessment, a very tolerated discussion. I sincerely thank you, and I hope you will vote this bill when the time comes for you to vote for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-11-0.u23419	Please be patient and sit down for a few more minutes, and let's finish this item on the agenda - the draft law on broadcasting. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a review of the draft law in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide on the draft law in principle, details and general. This concludes today's work and the session of the Fifth Extraordinary Session continues at 10.00 p.m. on Monday.
