ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17463	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, pursuant to Article 138, I suggest that the debate in particular be reduced to three minutes since the current course of the discussion has mostly come down to debate on amendments. I'm asking, of course, for the Assembly to come forward with my proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17464	I am putting forward a proposal from MP Zelj Huric to limit the debate in particular to three minutes. I ask the Members of Parliament to plead with the vote. For 91, against 79, there are no abstentions, no three votes, a total of 173 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that the debate in particular, pursuant to Article 138, will be three minutes. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Joca Arsic. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. The amendmentr wants a word. Here you go. I remind you there's a limited hearing for three minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17465	We were able to make a decision and not discuss amendments at all. Obviously not, although this vote is problematic. As the chairman said, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1 of the Law, which reads: "The rights of citizens in local self-government are achieved directly and through free elected representatives, by managing public affairs of direct, common and general interest in the local population. Local self-government is being achieved in the municipality, the city and the city of Belgrade (hereinafter referred to as the local self-government unit). "Foreign citizens can have individual rights in achieving local self-government, under conditions and in a manner established by law. Citizens with electoral rights and residence in the territory of the unit of local self-government manage the affairs of local self-government in accordance with the Constitution, the law and the statute of the unit of local self-government." I have submitted an amendment to this article to the following contents: the words "municipality" are added in point 2 after the word "municipality", with the proposal to delete the 3rd article's position. In an explanation given by the government, since it has not accepted this amendment, the amendment is rejected because the rights of foreign citizens in the exercise of local self-government are governed by other regulations rather than by this law. I don't think this argument can stand, because I asked for this item 3 to be deleted. Article 2 did not explain my proposal at all, to specify that the words "as the primary unit of local self-government" were added after the municipality. Furthermore, this same article provides that citizens with electoral rights and residence can participate in the achievement of local self-government. Paragraph 3 of this same article provides that such a right can be participated, i.e. to take part in local self-government and party. I think this rules out the final position of this member because they are in complete dissension. If it is already to be regulated and called for in an explanation that it will be regulated by other regulations in this area, then I think it is completely inconsistencies with regard to this proposal itself and the concept of the law. If the affairs of local self-government and the right to participation and participation in local self-government are to be regulated, then it should be regulated by this bill, not by some special laws as foreseen here, and not by eradicating this position in this text of the law itself. I think these arguments are insufficient and inadequate, that these amendments of mine have a complete place in the amendments of this article and that these amendments will improve the existing text of the law. I propose to this assembly that this amendment of mine be adopted both in Section 2 and in eradicating Article 3 of this Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17466	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Please, MP Vojislav Seselj, president of the SRS parliamentary group, followed by MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17467	An amendment that makes sense because already through the first member of this legal project, all other shortcomings in the law are being considered which, eventually, the National Assembly will adopt. What are these shortcomings? You've had plenty of time, and you haven't been able to make a full law on local self-government. You are already in the first article suggesting that some things will be dealt with by special laws. That's deeply irrational. You're aware of the shortcomings, and you're not in a position to get into trouble right now. Then why are you in such a hurry with the new law? You have no reason to rush. First of all, this law did not provide for a way of selecting a committee, you did not foresee the choice of the president of the municipality, except that it would be by direct vote. For not being patient for five days, you sat down with your wonderful legal experts, who are genius by not knowing the rights according to these projects that you have submitted to us, and then with them cleared up these issues. Furthermore, you are talking about the participation of foreigners in achieving local self-government. You have not defined clearly what units of local self-government, what a city, and what a city of Belgrade is. And you leave the city of Belgrade to regulate a special law. You didn't definitely clarify the difference between the municipality, the city municipality and the suburban municipality. These are all issues that need to be clearly distinguished. Without their clarification, the law can't make sense. As for the very provisions on the participation of foreigners in the pursuit of local self-government, it is here that it sees at the same time your modernity and legal ignorance. Modernism; you've heard that in some Western European countries, foreigners, pirates who have work permits, who are already citizens in a certain sense of the word, but not full-fledged, allow certain rights in local self-government to be exercised, so - you saw a frog ducking and that leg planted. That is the essence of this provision of yours. You didn't get into our situation at all. - Do we have gas-bitters? Do we have these foreigners working here with work permits and how many of them are there? Is this a problem that must be addressed in this way and through solving this problem to break basic constitutional principles? You know, citizenship is the basis for gaining all civil rights and freedoms. The right foreigners are a special category. A stranger cannot be left without all rights and freedoms; first he cannot be left without freedom, and all freedoms are guaranteed to a stranger. As far as the rights are concerned, a stranger can't be tied up with a domestic citizen. If the citizen of our country is to be equaled with a foreigner, the question is, what does citizenship mean, what does it mean, why does it even exist? That is the essence, and that is why this first article shows all the shortcomings of your law, the indiscretion and intricacies of the people who wrote it. If this had been written by a legal expert, a valid legal normation, he would have already put the basic legal categories in the first position with which he defines the law and would have consistently developed those categories throughout the text of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17468	The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic, deputy president of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17469	Dear fellow MPs, counterpart Joca Arsic suggested eradicating this Article 3 in Article 1 of the law for the simple reason we are unable to find out what rights foreign citizens can exercise in local self-government in the Republic of Serbia. We asked a similar question on the board, and we didn't get any answers. It is known that there is a law that regulates the rights and position of foreign persons, i.e. The Act on the Movement and residence of foreigners; there is a tax-listed all that applies to foreign persons who are temporarily or continuously resident in the SRJ and who have rights in one or another status. This is taxing if, under the right of foreign persons to participate in a special local self-government, only means that they live on local self-government territory; yet here we come to the fact that this is not the essence, because the right to participate in local self-government implies that a particular person has an electoral right. I think it's logical that a colleague suggested that this attitude be deleted because we think that this attitude is actually just a formal declarative character and that it's more intended for the foreign public, than that essentially means something to local self-government or to regulate this issue. Besides, the whole law is such a character. We heard that on the board (Milka Marinkovic keeps throwing away). Such a character, Col. Milk, has been said to be passed due to the need for formal satisfaction of the Council of Europe to make Yugoslavia its member and to adopt a law on local self-government. That's why we're talking about this law that is without substance and with a lot of formal rights, but which essentially means nothing to local self-government or can improve local self-government, and even more tragically it contains provisions that will not be applied soon. A colleague mentioned that in the first position everything related to local self-government should be defined because these first members speak about the system of local self-government. For this reason, you will see later, we have proposed to delete Article 17 in this first part of those twenty members, which determines the system of local self-government, to determine exactly what it is that makes the system of local self-government in the Republic of Serbia based on this bill. But based on everything we've been able to see in the content of this law, there's not a word about the system here.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17470	The word has a representative of the promoter, justice minister and local self-government, Mr. Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17471	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would suggest, to the callers who often say that the Constitution is a holy letter, which should be, to read a little bit of that constitution; if they read the Constitution of the SRJ, Article 66, they would know that the rights and positions of foreigners are regulated by federal law. So it's the first lesson in constitutional law training. Article 66 of the SRJ shall have freedoms, rights and duties established by the Constitution, federal law and international contracts. That's what I'm trying to explain to the lawyers, and it's hard for experts in pre-war training to explain. When it comes to citizenship, the previous government should be ashamed that hundreds of thousands of our countrymen have left without citizenship. Only recently has the Federal Assembly passed the Law on Citizenship and only they have now acquired the rights that SRJ citizens have.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17472	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 50, against 85, with 20 abstentions, 20 of the 175 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Here you go, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17473	The Honorable chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the Democratic Party of Serbia parliamentary group absolutely disagrees with the short-term discussion of the amendments, and we have discussed this disagreement, before the debate or before the decision was taken in the Serbian Parliament, and have informed the president of the Serbian Parliament when it consulted us. We believe that there is no quorum and that these sessions will take a long time - and I am not amnesting some MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia and a general parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Serbia, who attends meetings in a larger or smaller number, which is the obligation of all MPs - should not be an argument to shorten the debate on amendments for three minutes. We had a debate in principle that lasted five hours, not extended. We have a debate on amendments that have been reduced, and this is a system law, this is a law that should strike the foundations of a new state, we don't think we should cut time to three minutes, and we've expressed our disagreement. This is especially not to be done because we have quorum problems in this room, nor that we are trying to replace what the sessions begin at 11:15 p.m., and that is why we are reducing the time needed to discuss the amendments. I am not amnesting any parliamentary group of responsibility for the lack of quorum, but we do not think this should be at the heart of the quality of the debate. The Democratic Party of Serbia and the Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group will leave the morning session by 1400 hours in protest, which according to such a rules of procedure, which shortened the time for discussion, further reducing the rights of MPs to discuss amendments of such an important law. In this way, we want to draw the public's attention that this is not the right way, and that restrictions on the rights of MPs are not at all the right way to build parliament and democratic institutions in Serbia, but tolerance, arguments and responsible debate in such important laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17474	Dear colleague, to thank you for your analysis and to tell you that you have not responded in good time. Secondly, it is my duty to give you an explanation, and it is your culture to stay and listen to the explanation. First, you did not highlight which member was injured; secondly, the National Assembly made a decision, limited time to three minutes; and thirdly, as I recall the DSS parliamentary group proposed amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure in which, among other things, a limited debate was held for five hours, so let's say some parliamentary groups have 27 minutes, which means they don't have two minutes to speak in principle. It is democratic, and it is not democratic that in particular it is quite three minutes enough to explain the amendments. That's my explanation, I won't put it to the vote because the National Assembly has already made a decision and I thank you. You have no right to a replica. I've given an explanation. The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17475	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, more than a year of scandalous things have been happening in this National Assembly. First, our sessions are an hour and a half late at the beginning, and then you limit the MPs to speak for three minutes and when the laws are very important on the agenda. Third, you preach to the opposition's MPs continuously for lack of quorum. In no democratic country in the world, the opposition gives quorum to the parties of power, in either one. Neither will the Serbian Radical Party give you the quorum. Serbian radicals will now come out, and we ask for a quorum to be determined.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17476	Mr. Seselj, you will remain, of course, to give you an explanation, as I am in charge of the Rules of Procedure. First of all, it's not true, there are many countries where the quorum is not needed for discussion at all, but only the quorum for decision-making. That's where you told the lie first. Secondly, the violation of the Rules of Procedure has not been timely, and thirdly, the National Assembly has already made a decision, and you, as a lawyer, know that this is now a solution. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP, Dejan Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17477	The Honorable Chairman, if you are already going into discussions not only about the Rules of Procedure, but about that, then you need to go out for this pay phone and go out on the line. That's the first thing, and I think that on that side, you're hurting the Rules of Procedure in certain segments, if you're trying from that position to replicate or conduct controversy with the parliamentary groups. The fact is that the Democratic Party of Serbia, with agreement with all parliamentary groups....
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17478	I didn't give you the right to a replica, Mr. Michael. I know the Rules of Procedure, and I'm going to give you another explanation for the claim that I haven't acted on the Rules of Procedure. I didn't give you the right to a replica, I'm following the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17479	Okay, you're following the Rules of Procedure. The fact is that we have made changes to the Rules of Procedure with the consent of all, it is voted here and it is restrictive enough that no more restrictive measures should be imposed on the issue of debate, and in this case on amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17480	Mr. Michael, as voted, the debate is limited to three minutes. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zarko Obradovic, an opportunity to promote parties.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17481	My fellow Members, I have consulted with colleagues who have a longer term of office than I have, and I have heard that there has never been a cut in these 12 years, never in these 12 years; whoever thinks otherwise, let him come out and say; in these 12 years there has been no shortening of the duration of the debate in particular.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17482	Mr. Obradic, which member do you point out as an injury?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17483	Article 98. The Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group will also not participate in the work of such a parliament or in the debate in particular. We believe this is neither good for parliament nor for democracy in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17484	Mr. Obradich, would you like me to give you an explanation? You won't, though I owe you one. The National Assembly has decided that time should be limited to three minutes, and if not, and I'm not sure that there have been such restrictions before, we are in transition, reforms are under way, there is much more work to be done than has been done and I think it's quite enough time for the amendment applicant to explain his amendment. (Vojislav Seselj: I asked to establish the quorum. I ask the People's MPs to determine the quorum. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm setting a break by 15.00 hours. [[After break-15,20]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please allow us to continue the session to determine the quorum, please insert your identification cards into the MPs' units. I find that the application of the electronic system has established that we have a quorum and we can continue to discuss the proposal for a law on local self-government in particular. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Goran Ciric. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He doesn't want to, he's not here. Does anyone else want a word? Please, MP Vojislav Seselj, president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17486	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is obvious that the key problem of the first member of the legal project is a problem concerning the participation of foreigners in local self-government. We heard in the afternoon debate a very inspiring interpretation of Justice Minister Vladan Batic. The minister of justice comes out for this pay phone and says the issue is resolved by the Constitution, the federal constitution, or federal law. The federal constitution has left the Federal Assembly in charge of resolving the issue of the rights of foreigners in our country by law. But this federal law, which could be based on republican law, has not yet been passed, is not. Then how can the Republic law predict the possibility of foreign participation in local self-government? Of such interpretations of constitutional and legal standards, Serbia can only get a headache. It is impossible, from a legal point of view, to provide for the possibility of party participation in the achievement of local self-government. The fact that we are against a provision of legislation that provides for the possibility of party participation in the exercise of the jurisdiction of local self-government does not mean that we are against the rights of foreigners in our country in general. There are rights of foreigners protected by international acts, that is the right to life and other human rights, fundamental human rights. There is not a single right to participate in the exercise of power. So these political rights, in a narrow sense, are not covered and how the half-word to say now -- the issue of foreign participation will be resolved. This is already a commitment, this is a homework assignment. If this law provides for the possibility of the participation of foreigners in local self-government and predicts that a special law will resolve it, I am telling you about what Batic said, and you can now say whatever you want because you have not given me the opportunity to replicate Batic. I'm not gonna stay in debt on this, and now you can say whatever you want. In this case, you promise Serbian citizens that you will pass such a law, practically. You have nothing to promise, nothing to base your promise on. In order for you to have anything to base on, you have to provide a basis in the Constitution and have a basis to exist in an adequate federal law. There's no such thing as a back-up.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17487	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 47, against 101, abstention 31, six of 185 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. The applicant of the amendment wants a word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17488	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, we have heard a lot about Article 1 paragraph 3 where the bill provides that foreign citizens have the right to participate in local self-government, under the terms and manner laid down by law; Mr Batic tried something by the Federal Constitution to tell us that foreign citizens have the rights; under federal laws and under the Federal Constitution they have the right and to legal protection from our courts, the right to freedom of movement, thoughts; we will not prohibit them from what they think. However, there is no foreign law in this proposal. So the law is like this unspeakable. I don't just know which foreigners Mr Batic meant. Did he mean foreign citizens from the territory of former SFRY republics, who have been registered there as citizens, and for 10, 20 or more years have been existing; or did he mean exiled and exiled persons from those same territories, or from the same republics. I don't know why it is necessary by special law to regulate their rights within the framework of local self-government, because as Mr Cedomir Jovanovic said - 12,000 per month is issued from 12 to 15,000 permits for registration in the citizens' book. If this law is taken into force until the next regular local elections, all those on the territory of Yugoslavia who have applied for citizenship will have citizenship, therefore this is unnecessary. Perhaps the legislator of this law thought he was advocating himself to his Western mentors, could be that reason to be, and I think it's central to the reason that local self-government is involved with people like Solana, like Montgomery, Crawford, Robin Cook, because these gentlemen have already participated enough in the work among the former republics of the old Yugoslavia... (President: Please return to the topic. ) This is a topic, ma'am, of foreign citizens, who have been involved in business between the old, between the former republics and we know what the result is. They interfered with nationalism, terrorism in Kosovo, we know that this resulted in the bombing of the SRJ, and now they're messing with our municipalities and the local community. And I'm just wondering where they'll end up, whether they'll start messing around in our houses, our families, our courtyards, their stables; only when they get to the stables and the stables, they should be locked up there, because for another they're not.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17489	To the Messenger of the people, Veroljub Arsic, I give a warning: for ye have spoken abusively. Veroljub Arsic: About who, about pigs? You have no right to talk to me. National MP Vojislav Seselj, president of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group, spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17490	It would be good, Mrs. Micic, to stop harassing opposition MPs, especially Serbian Radical Party MPs, and to understand once that all these abuses are only at your expense and to the harm of the coalition you belong to. But we go back to the basic problem that the first member of the legal project imposes as the main problem of the whole project. Defending the 3rd provision that foreigners under certain conditions can participate in the achievement of local self-government, Justice Minister Vladan Batic called for a member of the 66th federal constitution. In the position of Article 66 of the Federal Constitution, it is said - a foreigner in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia has freedoms, rights and duties established by the Constitution, federal law and international contracts. So, the Constitution, federal law and international contracts. There is no provision here that the rights of foreigners can be regulated by republican laws. Therefore, if this provision remains, the law will already be against it. The federal unit can't afford to get more jurisdiction from what's provided for by federal law. The jurisdiction of the rights of foreigners shall be governed exclusively by the Federal Constitution and by federal law. It cannot be regulated by the laws of federal units, but it is in itself sufficient reason for this provision to be changed and for the amendment to be accepted. What, by the way, the founder's thoughts are seen from the text of the Federal Constitution, of Article 2 66. - a foreigner can only be extradited to another country in cases where international contracts binding the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia are envisaged. So it's a matter of delivering strangers. A third position - the right to asylum is guaranteed to a foreign citizen and stateless person, who is being persecuted for seeking democratic views and for participating in movements for social and national staff, for freedom and human rights, or for freedom of scientific or artistic creation. So, in both cases, it is again about general human freedoms and rights, and there is no question of the right to participate in governance, in the exercise of power, because local self-government is also one of the forms of achieving political authority in the country. That's not even foreseen by the federal constitution. So, materially by this provision you come into collegiate with the provisions of the federal constitution. You are also formally coming into collegiate, as the area of rights and freedom of foreigners can only be regulated by federal legal acts. In both ways, you are entering collegiate, and there is certainly a much more significant formal-legal conflict here, so that the Republic Assembly cannot pass at all a legal act that regulates the area. Now you find someone who will teach the Minister of Justice the basic legal principles, because I, as an expert on folk defense, am probably not able to act educationally enough on him. He needs an expert on some other kind of science, which is closer to medicine than war.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17491	People's MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the DOS parliamentary group, spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17492	Mrs. Micic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this position of Article 1 should not be deleted. On the contrary, it should be supported because it is a standard of modern Europe, and Serbia is the place right there. Those who pushed us into arms and unnatural alliances may now consider the consequences. We are not politicians who will follow that kind of policy. Therefore, it is necessary to allow a foreigner an active electoral right, among other things, because at the level of local self-government it is a standard defined by the European Charter. Everything else would actually be a distance from Europe, and I don't think it's a political concept that can support the DOS parliamentary group, or a political concept that should be followed by the Republika Srpska Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17493	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I'm putting it to a vote. For 49, v 107, abstention 31, did not vote 10, a total of 197 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina and MP Zoran Boskovic submitted the 2nd amendment in the same text. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina, MP Zoran Boskovic and MP Istvan Išpanovic submitted the 3rd amendment in the same text. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Dragan Colic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17494	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Article 3(2), the word "bringing" is replaced by the words "execution of laws". The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in Article 113, paragraph 6 clearly defines the rights and duties of the municipality in entrusted matters. Point 6 decidence says -- it enforces laws, other regulations and general acts of the Republic of Serbia, whose enforcement is entrusted to the municipality and provides for the enforcement of the rules and general acts of the municipality. The motivation of the legislator was not to respect the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the position of Article 3. The proposal for a law on local self-government is contrary to Article 113. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, because Article 1st point 6 precisely defines the rights and duties of the municipality in entrusted affairs. It cannot be the same that the local self-government unit shall adopt regulations and other acts and perform administrative actions or, as set out in Article 113. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is in effect. The violation of the law and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is becoming chronic. The existence of a legal vacuum is also a feature of DOS authorities. The lack of a Constitutional Court helps Serbia's DOS to implement dictatorships. In the area of local self-government, the proposal for a law on local self-government is disastrous and will contribute to the creation of chaos and to the prospect of doing something and implementing reforms. There will be no democratic processes in Serbia. The work of the local assembly will be of no importance, and all of this will be in the hands of one man, the president of the municipality or the mayor. It is not disputed that this law is against the constitution and that it would be best for the Proposer to withdraw it from the procedure. Honor and morality are the categories that you DOSs miss most in the sphere of local self-government, and in other spheres we have nothing better to hope for. Under the cover of democratic processes, local dictatorships are also being conducted. There will be no democracy while you are in power. My amendment to Article 3. The proposal for a law on local self-government is a real example in which attitude 2 clearly shows that there is a conflict with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The promoter obviously mixes the concept of trusted and transferred business. If it's classified business, only administrative business can be trusted. Therefore, it cannot be further regulated by the regulations of local self-government of matter governed by the laws in the jurisdiction of senior authorities, which they trust with local self-government. That is why we, the Serbian radicals, are asking for the word - to be passed, to be replaced by the words - to comply with the laws, which is in accordance with Article 113 of Item 1st point 6. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It's election time. The will of Serbian citizens has changed. Provide an opportunity for Serbian citizens to choose new MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which will not be easy because they will have to consider and adopt better laws than those you have made and to correct many of the mistakes you have made.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17495	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? National MP Vojislav Seselj, president of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17496	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the main problem is the lack of expertise of the people who wrote this legal text. Maybe this provision isn't meant to be a bad idea at all. Maybe whoever formulated this provision was the best. However, this provision is a mirror of his intricacies. When dealings are entrusted with a lower form within a territorial organisation of a system of government, such as local self-government, local self-government is not entrusted with regulation of these issues, but exclusively enforcement, because it is something in the jurisdiction of the Republic. All that is in the jurisdiction of the Republic is regulated exclusively by the Republic. The Republic regulates, and then tells the municipality - I trust you to do that, too, because you'll do it easier than the directors of the republican organs. That's the point of trust. Jobs are not entrusted with regulatory jurisdiction. That's the point. That is why Article 3 is unprofessionally formulated and we call on you to find someone who will professionally formulate it, if you will not accept the amendment of the Serbian Radical Party that helps you in this regard. Where the municipality is entrusted with the performance of certain tasks, the municipality is obliged to carry out these tasks exclusively in the manner in which that exercise was prescribed by the Republic. There is no freedom for municipalities to change the way the Republic prescribed regulation by its legal regulation. It's hard to explain to many of you, but I don't say that much because of you, but because of the whole Serbian public who is following this, and it's a miracle that it's possible for such unprofessionally engaged texts to appear in the form of a legal project.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17497	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 43, against 95, with 27 abstentions, they did not vote 24, a total of 189 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 4th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Todorovic and Hranislav Peric. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does a representative of the applicants of the amendment want a word? Please, there is a word from MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17498	Ladies and gentlemen, that the draft law on local self-government, which we have on the agenda today, is an unfortunate solution to the complexity of individual solutions from other countries, which practically collapses the existing system of local self-government... Minister, you'll have a chance to call whenever you want, there's no need to throw it away. So, we can say that this set of solutions is indeed such that it will contribute to the collapse of the local self-government system that now exists in Serbia and that it will not, contrary to this collapse, contribute to building a new, better, more complete and more coherent system, let's say, with the provisions of the European Charter of Local Self-Government, adopted in Strasbourg in 1985, and as an example, by stating the provisions of Article 4 and the amendments that we have submitted to Mr. Hranislav Peric and my littleness on behalf of the SPS. It provides that Article 4 instead of the term - "the local self-government unit is responsible for quality and efficient operation of the original business and for performing the original tasks of the local self-government units can only be limited in cases and under the conditions laid down by the law, in accordance with the Constitution", evictions - the unit of local self-government and introduces a name or precision - that the responsible bodies of local self-government units are responsible. Why do I say that? Well, first of all, that there is an argument for such a supplement and an amendment of Article 4 speaks the Charter of Local Self-Government itself, which provides that local authorities can have executive authorities responsible for their rights. So, it's not said, since it's already about the responsibility of local self-government units, it's about the responsibility of local self-government units. We therefore believe that this proposed formulation part is indeed unspeakable and that it would make sense for the solution we have proposed in our amendment to be adopted. Also, and pro-responsibility, it is really illogical to treat one of the authorities of local self-government and be responsible for the entire unit of local self-government, but if we are already talking about accountability, it would not be bad to hear some explanations, such as those related to the responsibility of former President Slobodan Milosevic, who is reportedly being tried in The Hague today, and is actually being tried throughout Serbia. So I remind you once again that the question of responsibility is very important and I urge you to adopt solutions and amendments that are literally aimed at making the question of accountability more specific. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17499	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Here's a word from MP Vojislav Seselj, as president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17500	In order for this provision of the law to make sense, it must be recast in accordance with what has been proposed in the amendment. Why? When you say - the local self-government unit is responsible, it does not mean anything in a legal sense. It's the same as when you say - the state is responsible, the Republic is responsible, it's a matter of political declaration. This provision would make sense if it were said - authorities are responsible, each body within its specific competence. And he can't have the entire local government unit responsible for all the organs. Especially in this system that you are now imposing. The municipal assembly cannot be responsible for what the president of the municipality does. Because the president of the municipality doesn't even answer to the congregation for his actions. It doesn't answer to anyone. That's how you came up with it. You left only the possibility to submit an initiative to replace the president of the municipality practically through a referendum, which is practically impossible to achieve. The president of the municipality is without responsibility. This member can be basically superfluous. Because the responsibility of all authorities in the political system is understood. It is pointless to enter into the law now - all the authorities are responsible for what they do, when it is known both by the Constitution and by some system laws. It's pointless in this law to bring it up. But since it's already being introduced into the law, then there's a perfectly logical way to put it. No. Local self-government in general to match. The county is responding. What municipality? You have a strict division of the authorities within the municipality: administrative enforcement and legislative; and it is neither legislative, there is no real knowledge of what it is if there is no jurisdiction to bring down executive power. Then who's the one who's responsible? The responsibility must be specified. Without realising responsibility, asking a question of responsibility is a mere phrase. In practice, it doesn't mean anything. If there's a particular responsibility, then you know exactly why who's having the right conjunctivities. The mention of responsibility without a specificity of the conventions is also pointless. Every responsibility implies sanctions. It is pointless to ask a question of responsibility without asking a question of sanctions. It's pointless and separate to treat responsibility and sanctions. That's just enough to teach you a little bit, though it doesn't seem like much of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17501	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 44, against 89, with 19 abstentions, 24, a total of 176 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Milos Lukic submitted to the 4th amendment. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Goran Ciric. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that it has become an integral part of the bill. The 6th Amendment was submitted to the Assembly of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina. The Government, the Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Is anyone answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For one, against 135, with 18 abstentions, 22, 176 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Istvan Ispanovic. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. ) Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate applying for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For one against 137 abstentions, the 16 did not vote 22, a total of 176 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Zoran Boskovic. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. ) Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. It was not against 134, abstentioned 15, voted 27, a total of 176 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ratimir Svirčević, Zivica Predojev, Teodora Vlahovic and Kermeci Karolj. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does a representative of the applicants of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. ) Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For one, against 136, abstentioned 14, 24, a total of 175 MPs voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Pavlovic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, he's not there. Is anyone else answering for a word? He has the floor of MP Branislav Ivkovic, president of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17502	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, MP Slobodan Pavlovic, in front of the SPS, submitted an amendment proposing that Article 7 in the second position "the unit of local self-government may, on the principles of competition and the public, be entrusted to the legal or physical person to carry out the tasks of the 1st member's position", so he proposes to place the score, and then "unless otherwise specified by law". In particular, these members of the 7th Local Self-Government are allowed to form their local organisations to meet the needs of the population and it is clear that they are primarily business in the field of municipal work, water supply, transport of citizens, etc. A complementary law to this law is the Law on Community Works, and he made it clear which types of jobs cannot be fully entrusted with any competition and in which types of business local self-government must retain majority ownership. This primarily refers to the area of water supply and the area of rail transport. So, transportation and those jobs that can't be easily parallelized. The other is the situation, for example. with waste and other activities, bus transport, which can have no problem having sound competition, but a monopoly over water supply, a monopoly over central heating, a monopoly on rail transport, the Law of Communal Works is intended to belong to local self-government. That is why MP Slobodan Pavlovic suggested that it be stressed, saying it could be this competition, unless otherwise provided by law, precisely by laying down under the Law on Community Action, which essentially protects the interest of citizens. Because if someone came into the hands of that monopoly supplying the city with water, rail transport, or central heating, that monopoly could be used for many other purposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17503	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 44, against 77, 20 abstentions, 34, a total of 175 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There's a word from the MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17504	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS Parliament Club has tabled an amendment to Article 8. A bill that I will explain, which concerns the retention of local communities and even the establishment of some new forms of local self-government, which is absolutely incompatible with, above all, our commitment to the foundation of the existence of a local community. The arguments are: firstly, that local communities, first of all, are not a constitutional category; secondly, that they have not shown themselves and proved themselves in practice. Once upon a time, the local communities, at the time of Cardellus and Communism, were actually basic party cells. They are today. That's why you keep them as a form of local self-sufficientness, because DOS parties that don't have their own party infrastructure, through local communities, make up for it and make up for the choice for the authorities of the local community one political struggle; even when the local communities functioned they didn't have that goal, but they had to satisfy some common interests of all citizens living in the local community. Today it happens to pick up 50 people, call out, choose the organs of the local community. Those who found out about it or who were invited have come. Practically, citizens do not know that the local community exists, and that local community should do something in the interest of these citizens. It's all under question and, of course, by quotes, because the aim of this local community is not to do anything but to implement the policy of that political party that has reached its calling in the local community. The provisions of Articles 71 - 76 further discuss the issue of local self - government. First of all, it is astounding to see that you intend to transfer some of your original powers to the local self-government, i.e. as the primary unit of local self-government, to the local community. It will obviously function according to the system - when a citizen comes to the municipality to seek or insist on something, then someone responsible in the municipality tells him to go to the local community or, as we say in the public, complains about the water management. The local communities will not be able, based on the financial resources they have, and here, above all, they are counting on self-dependence, which we are also against, because we do not think that the paying capacity of our citizens is such that they can participate through self-delivery, in addition to all these taxes, to get the way, to get water, to build a sewerage or a telephone connection, etc. The local communities, according to Serbian radicals, are overcoming the category with which we should cross. We're at a crossroads, and you're obviously not a non-communist. The cardio system is absolutely right for you, with him actually having a system, and you're doing everything out of the system.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17505	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has been delivered by MP Vojislav Seselj, president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17506	This time I have to be quite and unexpectedly kind to you DOSs, because it's not your fault that this concept, the idea of the local community, is left in your head. It's the Socialists' fault that they kept it in the previous two laws, even though we were trying to throw it out as an unconstitutional category. This remained from the old communist period, from the period of totalitarianism, from the period of Cardel's regulation of the political system. However, you now need to prove that you are not only one of the variants of the communists or the Socialists, that you really represent a liberal-democratic concept of the political system. If you represent such a concept, then you will give up on local communities. First, because the Constitution doesn't know the category of local communities at all. Two, because you can't see what local communities are. If such a provision remains, everyone will interpret from municipality to municipality what the local community is. We've had that practice so far. Where Serbian radicals ruled, we simply abolished it. In Serbia, however, we had such a practice that in one municipality of the municipality the management of the local community; in the second municipality, the Executive Board of the municipality delegates, from the order of municipal councils, the council of the local community; in the third municipality it is held for citizens, so it elects members of the local community. It is very rare that there have been secret, direct and democratic elections for the local community assembly. The question is whether there are such exceptions in Serbia at all. Then what's the local community? No one can explain that. Where there is, in local conditions, a socio-terroral, economic continent, why not go to the establishment of a municipality; why a local community? There are large villages, large settlements, real cities, which by nature things can be municipalities. Then they should be declared municipalities. Why keep them in the status of some imaginary meat community? Where there are no conditions to form a municipality, then insistence on the local community. Experience shows, not by monetary amounts, but percentage by number of affairs, that the most affairs were in the bodies of the local communities. Why are local communities particularly attractive to a category of people? Because they immediately reflect on local self - contributions and the availability of money for these self - contributions. That's what attracts them, not some other special problem. There are no grounds for the existence of local communities in the Constitution, there should not be such categories in the law. If something is already introduced into the law, which the Constitution, in principle, does not prohibit, then it must be clearly defined, the structure of the local communities must be developed; to see what the nature of this sub-organism of local self-government or sub-stitution is; to see what the structure of the organisation is; to see what the organs are and how these bodies are being established. (President: three minutes and 40 seconds. ) None of these can be seen from this law and this law only accepts earlier solutions by some initiative, and these solutions are both illegal and non-discriminatory.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17507	Do any of the other authorities want a word? Yeah. ) The word is held by MP Branislav Ivkovic, president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17508	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, it seems that after the omnibus of the law, the minibus of all the duchy MPs has gone, so you don't have any MPs from the duchess parties, no quorum would have us out of the hall. Only as much as the DOS MPs are responsible for the work they're doing. Article 8, which speaks of local communities, we support, because we are convinced that, especially in municipalities that have a very dissociative structure of housing with many villages, and how local communities should be preserved as the nearest form of local self-government for the population. Surely the inhabitants of a local community know much better what they need and what needs to be done at the level of their local community, than centralised municipal leadership should know in large municipalities. We are absolutely in favour of Article 8 as it is, i.e. we are against the amendment submitted by the Serbian Radical Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17509	Right on the line, the People's Messenger takes Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17510	Mr Branislav Ivkovic mentioned that there are no Vojvodina parties, and for the public I would say that the ambassadors of Vojvodina are present. So we don't misinformed the public, just so much, we're here.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17511	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 25, against 98, abstentioned 12, 35, a total of 170 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Markovic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17512	The Honored Presidency, honourable colleagues and fellow MPs, therefore, is about an amendment relating to local communities. The way the proposer conceived a system of local communities is in principle a good way and no theoretical objection can be placed. However, it is poorly applicable in our terms. The promoter predicted that, for the sake of meeting their needs, citizens could educate the local community, which was provided for by Article 8, in order to provide for a later article in the 72nd that citizens on the education of the local community or other forms of local self-government would be declared a referendum. It's certainly very democratic, and one day we'll probably get to that degree of consciousness development, let's say, about local self-government, about the local organisation of citizens. I don't think that's appropriate under the present conditions. So my amendment narrowed down that right a little bit and transferred it to the municipal congregation. These are the two amendments, one relating to this 8th term, and the other to Article 72. This amendment provides for a local self-government unit to educate the local community or other form of local self-government in accordance with the statute and law. Later, by amendment to Article 72, I predict that this is a special form of the majority, i.e. the absolute majority, most of the total number of council members in the municipality. I think it's a good way to replace the current dysfunctional system of local communities at first with someone who would be far more rational and functional. What is characterized by the current local communities, which is one complete atrophy and, we must admit, many of us, especially in urban areas, and do not know where the local communities are. The interest of citizens in local self-government and the local referendum at this point certainly does not exist. And if we did not accept this amendment, this provision relating to meat referendums would remain inapplicable in this way. I hope you understand that this is not in our best interest at this point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17513	Thank you. National MP Vojislav Seselj, president of the SRS parliamentary group, spoke. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17514	The applicant of this amendment feels the problem, but he doesn't know how to rationally solve the problem. Of course, the problem is that if there is a provision to meet the general, common and everyday needs of the population in a particular area, citizens can educate a local community or perhaps another form of local self-government, and in accordance with the statute and decision of the units of local self-government. Citizens are given the right to educate the form of local self-government. You know, these possibilities exist in some newly discovered territories, where there's no state government, and then citizens are found and they're organized. What does that mean, citizens are organized, citizens are formed, citizens are educated? How can citizens be educated? There's already a state. When there is a state, they have no more citizens to educate themselves within the political system and not educated by the state. Citizens can team up, negotiate, form stock companies, stock companies, organizations, parties, unions, whatever they want. Under the political system, where the structure of the political system is concerned, it is a state government, and local self-government is also a state government. She's not just self-government. It has a double nature: the nature of self-government and the nature of state authorities. It shall, on behalf of the State and exercise some administrative jurisdiction. In this case, if article 88 is changed by the amendment proposed, nothing will change. It says here that "for the sake of meeting the general, common and everyday needs of the population in a particular area of local self-government units can educate a local community or another form of local self-government, in accordance with the statute and law". First, let's get to the bottom of what could be a different form of local self-government. That's what we're talking about both in the law and in this amendment, and no one knows what the other form is. What could it be? Did there ever be anything, so let's see what that could be? What's the opening point? Whatever's out there comes to mind or is already thinking about something that's already possible to appear in practice. You're in no position to answer that question. Maybe that's home advice, what? What's that? You don't know the question to answer. Secondly, what about the already existing local communities to do? It comes from the fact that what existed before the constitution does not exist legally if the constitution did not sanction, if the constitution did not regulate. Meat communities that existed before the 1990 Constitution as if they didn't exist. They've mostly continued to exist, they've continued their existence, and they exist today. These provisions of the law or the provisions of the amendment only make the confusion seem greater... (President: Time. () What does this amendment say if he is accepted, that he is dealing with those old and hereditary local communities? How serious the problem is the fact that the Belgrade City Assembly has not dared to make a city decision on local communities for five or six years. As a result, no local community in Belgrade is legal or legitimate. It's such a serious problem. Where it's possible to cut problems across your knees, you can do this, you can do other forms, you can think of someone, it just shows... (President: I warn you of an excessive amount of time. )......................................................................................................... that you don't seriously think about the problem itself. Is the time up?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17515	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17516	Why didn't you warn me?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17517	I warned you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17518	I didn't hear.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17519	Right on line, MP Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17520	I'd just like to respond briefly to what Mr. Seselj said. So I have seen the problem that exists with the local communities in our country for a long time. He's more or less controversial for any MP in this room. Mr. Seselj thinks I just can't suggest a solution to that problem. I've suggested a good solution, but the difference between me and you is that you absolutely, and I've seen it, you don't understand the concept of local self-government, you don't distinguish the unit of local self-government, local self-government and the local organization of citizens. That's a serious problem. You cannot discuss this law until you distinguish these basic categories. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17521	The words were reported by Justice and Local Self-Government Minister Mr Vladan Batic, and as a proposing representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17522	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, given that the Committee on Justice has adopted the proposed amendment; also given that it is an autonomous unit of local self-government; that a political model can be accepted as a modern trend in regulation of this matter; that local communities are not really a constitutional category and that there are no constitutional restrictions of this kind; that this is about so-called "the local community". local self-government, not local self-government, is not at the level of the so-called local self-government. public authorities; the answer to the question of what else can be organised in addition to local communities - of course local self-government units form, let's say, neighborhoods, and according to the example of the arondismanes, etc.; therefore, to simplify, the Government accepts the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17523	Since the government has accepted this amendment, as well as the committees responsible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Goran Cvetanovic. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. The amendmentr wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17524	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS has tabled an amendment to Article 11. In Article 11(2), the word "service" is deleted part of the text, which reads: "The way citizens manage jobs from local self-government units, the establishment of local self-government, the establishment and operation of local communities and other forms of local self-government", and instead the following text is added: "The way citizens decide on the tasks of units of local self-government, conditions and how to call and organise a referendum. "It is necessary to come from the definition of local smog management, which is accepted even in the European Charter, that local self-government is guaranteed the right of citizens to direct and through their democratically elected authorities in units of local self-government, independently manage certain public affairs. In addition to deciding in the municipal assembly through democratically elected committees, citizens also have at their disposal the National Initiatives Institute and the referendum that is not mentioned here. The Constitution mentions this method of citizens' decision in Article 116, which reads: "Citizens' affairs are decided by a referendum through their representatives in the municipality's assembly. The assembly of municipalities consists of committees elected in the direct elections, by secret vote. "That's why I would have just recommended Minister Batić that, absolutely, much more time and energy spend reading the Constitution a little bit, just reading, nothing more, not that perhaps through representatives of his parties, beautiful municipal courts, above all in Leskovec and other parts, shows in this way where he has the authority. It would be much better if these laws were competent and better. This is precisely why it is obvious that DOS is thus shutting down the basic democratic principles, because local self-government is accompanied by no strict division of government, where all three forms of government would be controlled by one another. In the proposed member of the law, it is obvious that the committee does not have its post, but the mayor is inaugurating the presidential system, which is obviously not democratic. Because I'm sure the mayor won't take his own place. The government's response to the proposed amendment is absolutely unacceptable, which confirms the Serbian Radical Party's stance that the government is constantly trying to humiliate the MPs, not falling into the content of the amendments, and in this way the government is actually discrediting itself. This very important way of deciding citizens must be regulated by the statute, especially because the Constitution itself has given him great importance. I would remind the MPs that they should be kept in mind and Article 69(2). The proposal for a law on local self-government, which reads: "The assembly of local self-government units is obliged to call a referendum on the issue of its work at the request of citizens in the local self-government unit in a manner established by law and statute. "As you can see, in Article 69. the words are just being stressed: in a manner established by the statute.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17525	Anybody else answer for a word? National MP Vojislav Seselj as president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17526	It's a good thing Mr. Batic mentioned the Paris arondisman. This is a very good example of reputation for those politicians who want to complicate the schedule of state institutions as it was done in France. France has long suffered and France has too many institutions. It's a complicated way of deciding, that's what every expert on local self-government will tell you. But that's not the problem, I wouldn't criticise Minister Batic for it. The problem is that Minister Batic does not know that France has regulated the issue of the arondisman in detail as a form of organisation within the city of Paris. So, if you'd explained through this law what you're thinking on the block, what you're thinking under the district or city district, as you say, that wouldn't be such a terrible problem, but you're guessing and throwing yourself at expressions. It's nice, Mr. Batic, that you stand for neighborhoods, neighborhoods and districts, etc., but explain and define in this law what it is, then specify how citizens organize it and how citizens form the organs of the district, the fourth, etc. You've lost your answer. Where you don't have answers, you better keep your mouth shut. Then delete the districts, fourths and neighborhoods until you're able to figure it out and explain how you're going to regulate their functioning. We don't mind keeping local communities either, but work out that question, so say - the local community is formed by citizens of certain territorial areas, settlements, etc. The local community has that and that body, and all the bodies of the local communities are formed and constructed in that way and that way. That makes sense, then. An institution, the existence of an institution, the way it is built and elected, cannot be left to the free will of the citizens on the ground. The free will of the citizens in the field is manifested through the elections, I want this candidate, I don't want the other one, I want this party, I don't want that party, and it's democracy. It is not democracy when it is left to the citizens at will; so some of them will have such a meat community, and others like this; one will have fourth and the other districts; the fourth will have what still stands there; and you can introduce the arondismanes. You're still saying - etc. (President: Time. How does the law look, etc.? It doesn't mean anything, put it back together, explain it all, perform it into one logical system, explain it, show how it can work in practice, but that it works in the same way in Subotica, Belgrade, Vranje, Leskovac, etc. In an identical way that it works, not the same people will decide, but the system has to be unique, comprehensive, otherwise, you're advocating anarchy, you don't know who's drinking or who's paying. (President: I warn you of an excessive amount of time. I'll be right there, just one more sentence. Why do you have so much need to force a huge number of different forms, as you say, of local self-government? Why so much need for the huge organization of citizens? This reminds us of communists and fascists, totalitarianism, the citizen does not in principle want to share with these grandmothers, and in our choirs, citizens in local communities come, 50 to the top of their heads, about 100 citizens, and this shows a huge lack of interest, not a desire to overbook it to this extent.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17527	The words were reported by Justice and Local Self-Government Minister Vladan Batic, as a proposing representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17528	There is one saying to our people: "Whoso, grandmother of the wrinkles?" Those who spent years in the communist system and were top members of the Communist Union often criticise communism. Of course, those who have fraternised with Lepena, they most mention fascism, which is one syndrome that exists in the minds of people who have passed the stages of communism and fascism. The proposed amendment by Mr Milan Markovic says that units of local self-government can educate the local community or other form of local self-government. There were questions about what this other form was, and I mentioned that it was possible to be neighborhoods, districts, arondismanes, etc. decentralisation also involves normal decentralisation, and here we are talking about local self-government, not local administration. In communism everything was set, it was known which path it was going to go, and here it was this kind of decentralisation. The local self-government, or organisation of local self-government, unit of local self-government, will determine how this matter will be regulated, it should not be strictly regulated by law and should not be identical in Subotica, and in Kursumlia, but each unit of local self-government will do so according to its needs. It's a normative decentralisation.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17529	Right on line, MP Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17530	The minister can't replicate to me, but I can do the minister. I'm not going to look back on this Batić doll, because it's all more fun and funny to me, so I'd only base myself on the professional side of the problem. In France there is, listen, you will benefit from this, 36,548 municipalities. The French system of local self-government is absolutely different from ours and cannot be an example of reputation. Exactly 36,548, how many times do I have to tell you? I can tell you again by tonight, but something else is important. In France, local self-government is too bulky, so no matter how much it's too expensive and too expensive, it's inadmissible for us. In France, all these laws are perfectly regulated to the end. The law needs to regulate the system, to predict all institutions that appear within the system of state authorities. There must be no permanent institution within the system of government unless the law provides for it to exist. That's the point. Predict the law to divide all cities into areas. You can predict that some can be divided, and some can't, but here the point is that you have to regulate by law what this area will look like and how local self-government will function in the area. That's what you have to legally predict, and that's what you didn't foresee by law, and that's the point. As for communism, fascism, etc. There's Batic, a real expert. At the time of the communist boob, he was in a mouse hole and it was not known to exist. He was looking at dishes where they'd scratch for something. In the local self-government, communist, in Obrenovac, there was a chief, a reference officer, who knows what he was. While I was an anti-communist in prisons, Batic watched where he was going to cut someone off, where he was going to cheat, where he was going to slap someone in a hurry. It doesn't matter, it's Batic's past, for his memoirs, it's not for us, but I insist here that all the institutions of the political system must be clearly defined and the way they function is precise.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17531	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 42, against 94, with 20 abstentions, it was not 11 out of 167 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 13th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Radovanovic and Branko Ruzic. The government and the Justice Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is by MP Zoran Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17532	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister, to Article 13. I have submitted an amendment to the bill on local self-government for the following reasons. In two terms, as far as this member is concerned, there's a diametrically opposite difference, and I'll briefly explain it. First of all, in a second attitude, which says that local self-government units can establish, I repeat, they can set up their associations, and they all do so in accordance with the law. By contrast, in the first position of Article 13, it is said - units of local self-government cooperate; without any invitation to the Constitution or law, there is no. Namely, isn't this suitable ground for your Kasa, so that in the agreements of its municipality you can join the Constitution and the law of this country or something else. Don't you promise anyone anything, so you have to do it, but you have to do it that way. I will immediately upon the adoption of this member in accordance with another position, which says that units of local self-government can set up their associations, seek the formation of two associations. The first association will be the Association to protect the damaged citizens of Nis who have accepted the call for non-payment of electricity bills, and you all know well, as citizens of Serbia, who made the call to them, so that this association will keep the citizens of Nis from your pre-election promises. This was discussed yesterday by Serbian Radical Party MPs and Socialist MPs, so the topic is familiar enough with our public. On the other hand, I think Mr Jovanovic mentioned Milet Ilic, longtime SPS president yesterday. The courtoasia tells you, my fellow Members, that when you speak of Milet Ilic and the Socialists, you speak with respect. (President: Mr. Radovanovic, please return to the agenda topic. We're talking about a second attitude here. 13. A bill of law, so they can form associations, and I'll show you what I mean. It's for you to know, I'm sorry, Mr. Secretary of the Union of Communists from a long time ago, very simple. This association, this second one, should keep the truth above all, because until 1996, the Socialists were in power in Nis, and from 1996 until today it was you, I hope not for long. Serbian citizens know perfectly well: six years from now, you have failed to paint what we have done. You didn't have time to do anything. That's what everyone in Nis knows and I'm telling you again, when you talk about socialists, you talk with respect.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17533	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? The word has been given by MP Vojislav Seselj, as president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17534	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this member of the bill is not good, but I don't think the amendment is the happiest form. The issue of joining local self-government units must be more seriously considered here. What are the forms of their association? This must be clearly understood by the law. Is that the city? The law already provides for the city. Is this the city of Belgrade? The law already predicts the city of Belgrade and separates it from other cities. What else can local self-government units join in? The law has to be laid down. Subregion, you can bid now what comes to your mind, but there's no such thing in the law. It must be in the law, because such a provision is pointless. Does that mean, if three municipalities meet, they agree, if they're neighboring municipalities, to form a city? Perhaps one day Jagodina, Mupria and Paracino will agree to form a city. Is that what the creator of this legal project meant? If that's what he meant, the idea isn't bad, but it has to be regulated by law; and if the creator of this legal project meant what Joseph Kasa was already planning to do, to form a community of Pannonia municipalities and thus to single out seven-eight North-Animal municipalities under his control, then it should be prevented in this way. The provision is pointless, because it is not precise and as such does not mean anything. As far as international integration is concerned, I will speak after this when it comes to the amendment of Milorad Mircic. So here I'd just stick to my first attitude. In that first attitude, it is necessary to clearly specify the subject of association. It doesn't matter how important an institution formed by association is. What do they form if they join together? Is it an institutional thing or is it their hanging out? If they hang out through mergers, it's not much of a problem. If they have the opportunity to create a new institution, then they must clearly, by law, predict which institution is possible. It's not possible anything but forming a city. If there is a possibility of forming a city by joining several municipalities, it is not particularly problematic. Why isn't that precise? Why hasn't anyone thought about it - that's the real problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17535	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Nobody. I put this amendment to the vote. 61, against 77, abstentioned three, did not vote 23, a total of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He's not present. ) Here you are, the word has been given by MP Vojislav Seselj, president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17536	Ladies and gentlemen, I also have a comment on the amendment of the People's MP Milorad Mircic in terms of the formulation, but he hit that point. One thing is when within the political system of the local self-government unit they have the possibility of association. By joining them, they establish a certain institution. Which is an institution -- it's not defined. As far as co-operation on the international agenda is concerned, it is the so-called associations, and the association of Danube cities, for example, or associations of different character. It can be an association of capital cities etc. But that's supposed to be precise. Because these associations don't represent an institution. There is no new institution and no one can impose certain obligations on anyone. All obligations arising from this form of cooperation can only be made voluntarily. It was even the basis for the two different members to regulate the issue, not within the same member, because it is not treated with identical problems. Precision is, in any case, necessary, but in such a way as to determine and what obligations can be made from international co-operation. If units of local self-government can form associations of international character, co-operate and join in existing international organisations, which gather units of local self-government, then it should be regulated in a certain way and not in the same way as regulating internal co-operation, creating some institutions over municipalities, such as cities and the like. For every municipality that joins in the city has given up many of its powers. Those powers have been transferred to the city.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17537	Thank you. The word is Mr Vladan Batic, Minister of Justice and Local Self-Government, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17538	In order to rationally improve this proposal, the government accepts this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17539	But since the boards didn't accept it, I'll put it to a vote. The government has accepted this amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 133, against three, with five abstentions, 22, a total of 163 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. National MP Goran Ciric submitted to the 13th amendment. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He's not present. Does anyone else want a word? There's a word for Minister Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17540	The government also accepts this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17541	I thank the minister. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 108, against 36, the abstentions were not voted 22, a total of 166 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. On Article 15 of the amendment, in the same text, MPs Golub Rajic and MP Branislav Blazic submitted. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here's a word from the People's MP, Golub Rajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17542	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the Honorable Minister, on Article 15. The proposal for a law on local self-government, proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and by its content and solutions that offer nothing better than the previous one, even some earlier good solution corrupts and makes it unacceptable, I submitted an amendment where, after the word "run," instead of the comma, the point should be placed and the rest of the text deleted. The reason for the proposed amendment is that the issue of establishing and abolishing units of local self-government, establishing its territory and seats, changing borders and seats is a matter governed by law and it is in the jurisdiction of state authorities, not the competent authorities of territorial autonomy. If the citizens of a local self-government at a referendum declare themselves on the establishment or abolition of territories, seats, borders, the local self-government unit assembly, and this is regulated by law, I think it is too high and the opinion of the competent authority of territorial autonomy. This is in line with the principles of the European Charter of Local Self-Government, but so far the current Law on Local Self-Government has been in line with this Charter, regardless of what is said in the explanation, I think it is an incorrect claim, that one of the basic reasons for the adoption of a new law is the harmonisation of the local self-government system in the Republic of Serbia with developed, democratic countries of Europe. The new law, unlike the existing one, even contains some solutions that are contrary to the provisions of the European Charter of Local Self-Government, such as that local authorities may have executive bodies which are responsible for them in their exercise of their rights, and here the president of the municipality is foreseen as an executive body, but without responsibility. Which means that, if this law is not corrected, it cannot be expected to deburocratise and democratisation of political and economic life in our municipalities. This will not contribute much to the modernisation, organisation and management of local self-government units, and a civil initiative, a referendum and a choir of citizens are derivated as forms of direct participation of citizens in the decision-making process. The amendment I tabled on behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia, according to the Legislative Committee, is legally possible, and the government rejected it, with the reason that Article 15 does not call into question the regulation of the law, the establishment and abolition of units of local self-government, where territorial autonomy authorities only give an opinion on the proposed solutions; which means that this is excessive and that the amendment should be accepted and then Article 15 would be concise and clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17543	National MP Branislav Blazic, the applicant for the amendment, is not present. The word has been given by MP Vojislav Seselj, as president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17544	The amendment of MP Branislav Blazic is very meaningful, as well as Golub Rajic, who is identical, because he points to a problem that the writers of the legal project simply did not take account of. Writers of this legislative project believe that the competent authority of territorial autonomy should also give an opinion and that it is mandatory to ask for an opinion on the establishment and abolition of local self-government units in its territory. It's in a pointless way set up. Autonomous province unit, or any other territorial autonomy, must not concern the issue of the number of local self-government in its territory. Local self-government is a form of a political institution that differs significantly from the most common political institutions, such as the state, federal unit, autonomy or region. And the question of local government and its dispersions in the entire territory of the state must, by nature of things, be regulated in a unique way. The principle that exists in one part of the territory of the State must apply to all other parts of the territory as regards the structure, way of forming, establishing or removing units of local self-government. The problem with us is that it has not been uniform in all of Serbia's territory so far, we have municipalities of 200,000 inhabitants and a municipality of 2,000 people. There must be a solution in order for local self-government in the whole area to be identical in importance. Because where huge proportions in the size of territory, in the number of inhabitants, are in economic strength, it is not possible to ensure the same importance of local self-government. It is particularly unnatural that any autonomy, already existing or planned, should be given jurisdiction over local self-government. That's what's pointless in this case, which you've already given up in a certain way with a previously passed law, so on. the omnibus by law, and in this way you're just confirming a further process of debauchery. There are so many pointless things here that you simply think up a complete political system.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17545	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 55, against 76, abstentioned 12, 19, a total of 162 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Zeljo Huric. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There's a word from MP Zeljo Huric.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17546	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is already clear that my amendment refers to that matter that regulates the establishment and abolition of units of local self-government. Here I was specifically referring to the establishment of the municipalities. We've already heard that France has 36,548 municipalities. In our Serbia, there are over 160 municipalities. So it really does not meet European standards and it is normal to expect that those local communities that are territorially connected, or that meet all those criteria regulated by the next 16 members, may have an interest in forming new municipalities. In that sense, if possible, such a question should be democratically put in place the highest degree of democracy. What is provided for in Article 15 is not fully clear. I don't know what it means - with the citizens' opinion previously obtained; what does that mean, what is the way, what are the instruments that provide the citizens' opinion previously obtained? That is why I have a new view, which should read - "Citizens are calling for the establishment and abolition of units of local self-government to be declared by a referendum, which is referred to at the request of local communities, i.e. the assembly of municipalities," - I wanted to actually specify what that means. In the municipality of Prepolje, from which I come, a small town 25 km away, which you have probably heard of, Brodarevo, really meets all the criteria provided for in Article 16, and otherwise it was a municipality. If people out there want to form a community, why not let them? Therefore, their interests should not be subordinated to someone who is not well-versed in their interests, i.e. to respect the principle set out in the justification for the adoption of this law, which is to increase the degree of deberocracy, or democratisation. I hope you will accept this amendment, and I particularly urge the minister to plead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17547	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For six, against 132 abstentions, three did not vote 17, a total of 158 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Jovan Deretic and Zoran Novakovic have jointly submitted one amendment to Articles 16 and 17. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does a representative of the applicants of the amendment want a word? There's a word from MP Jovan Deretic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17548	The Honorable Presidency, honourable fellow MPs, respected viewers, we have submitted an amendment to article 16. In this regard, Article 16 states that the territory of a local self - government constitutes an area of one or more populated towns, or catastrian municipalities. So more of these municipalities can make up one unit of local self-government. Article 17 explicitly states that it is a municipality. One is the primary unit of local self-government. There must be correction here, because these two members stand in the opposite direction. The correction is very simple and easy, which is to erase the first attitude in Article 16 and everything comes to its place. There's one more thing here -- it shouldn't be left like this, if the law formulates itself indefinitely -- what is the basic unit of local self-government, because it could happen, under the pretext of this member of the law, to group municipalities by religious, national or other criteria. It is therefore necessary to adopt this amendment and implement this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17549	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 34, against 97, with five abstentions, there was no 18 vote, a total of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Joca Arsic. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? The applicant for the amendment has withdrawn the amendment to Article 17. National MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic submitted to the 19th amendment. The government and the Justice Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic, applicant for the amendment to Article 19.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17550	Ladies and gentlemen, this article 19. The bill speaks of the conditions and forms of accomplishing the works of the municipality. Among other things, in point 6 of this proposal, the law states that "the municipality, through its organs, is conducting a procedure for the immigration of illegally displaced persons to institutions and a common room in residential buildings". We asked to delete point 6 because we believe that it is a matter of judicial jurisdiction and that there is no reasonable reason for local self-government to take over the affairs of the executive procedure. Point 12) shows that "it arranges and provides for the organisation of transport in line navigation, which is carried out on the territory of the municipality, as well as that it determines the parts of the coast and water space on which hydro-building facilities can be built and water-building facilities can be set up". We asked for words to be added in point 12 -- "with the consent of the competent ministry". Because, as it is about the coasts and the waterways, it is necessary that the competent ministry, which cares about them as a good thing, to agree on the construction of hydrobuilding facilities. Since I have only three minutes of time, and a member of 34 points, the ambassadors have received a proposal for this amendment, in general, to take over many of the tasks that local self-government needs to do, which by nature matters should be done by the state. Do you really think that local self-government is really capable of doing through its organs those jobs that have never been done before or that really represent the essence of a country's affairs? Are you so capable of organizing all your affairs, when we have an example that you are not often able to put the quorum together here, that we would normally work. As our Minister Batic said - in communism everything was set, it was known which paths it was going. Today you don't seem to know it, so you draw walking passages in every place to be directed.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17551	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Yeah. ) The word is held by MP Vojislav Seselj, president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17552	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment of MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic is very serious and points to a difficult problem that often appears in practice. We see these days that some municipal government from the Belgrade city of a single mother with four children kicked out of her apartment after 11 or 14 years, it doesn't matter. A single mother with four children lives in one apartment for 14 years, and then there's some municipal government that throws her out under the pretext that the family is illegal in that apartment. If anyone can be in an apartment for 14 years -- they can't. Well, that's the problem he can't. Then what's the power that happens to someone who's been living for 14 years? What were you doing in Zemun? What were we doing in Zemun? In Zemun, all the families we found to live, as you say, illegally in municipal housing, if they prove they don't have another apartment, we immediately gave them a solution and legalized the use of those apartments. That's the right thing to do. You see the dogmatic structure of your consciousness. You're throwing out a single mother with four kids who's been living in her apartment for 14 years because she lives illegally, and then you're giving someone else's paper to move into that apartment and that's legally entering her apartment. For it is you who decide what is legal, what is illegal. That's what you do. This is proof of absolute immorality. The one who signs the decision that after 14 years of family with four children leaving the apartment, it's a criminal act. It's a crime, it's a real crime. Now, that's what you're capable of. Secondly, this question can only be left to the courts. Where the administrative authority can intervene - when there's a burglary of the apartment. Someone robs the apartment and moves in, it's already a felony, and that's where the police need to intervene, in accordance with the Criminal Law and the Code of Criminal Procedure. But where someone lived in an apartment for 14 years, and the municipality didn't even notice, nor did the owner notice, now you're throwing someone out after 14 years. First of all, it's possible that for 14 years someone stays in the apartment. (President: Time. So the owner wasn't interested. Because if the owner was interested, 14 years ago, he'd have been talking to the authorities to free his apartment. If the owner wasn't interested for 14 years, so now he remembers, then it's a real crime. (President: I warn you of an excessive amount of time. ) This jurisdiction must not be left to the local self-government unit. This may be the sole jurisdiction of the court, so in a court procedure if it is established that there is a basis for emigration, it shall be evicted. You know, if this were a private property apartment that I cited as an example, it wouldn't be a problem to move out. It's not a private property apartment, it's a so-called apartment. social property. It consists of a crime, which is found by someone who believes that a mother with four children should not live in an apartment in social property, but rather determines who will legally move in there.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17553	The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, who is entitled to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17554	Mrs. Micic, the respected presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, law enforcement cannot be a crime, especially in democratic Serbia. I agree that the example you set is unpleasant, but you should have remembered that example at a time when you shared hundreds of squares with each other. And not one family, one single mother with four children lost her home. Hundreds of thousands of people have lost their homes after a policy you and your coalition partners have spent in this country for ten years. We can count dozens of such examples. I agree that this is our tragedy, but the municipality is obliged to respect the law and to enforce it in such situations. We can talk today about whether the municipality can solve this problem in some other way, but then we need to know what the specific case is, which is the municipality, whether or not that municipality has a free apartment. We need to look at the other side of that problem -- who are those people who haven't been able to get into their space for 14 years. The question of crime is too serious to open it here and on such topics. Therefore, the municipality is obliged to serve the needs of its citizens effectively, including in the area. In this article, paragraph 6, it is said that it is carrying out a move-out procedure for illegally displaced persons; therefore, those people who without any right have taken away some living space. It is unacceptable, and we must change such a thing in our society, regardless of all the inconveniences we face. And crime is something else and the topic of crime is the topic which, among other things, received its answer in the December and September 2000 elections. Because if others had been so good, they would not have been such a convincing minority in the Republican congregation. (Vojislav Seselj: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17555	You're the one who caused the replica. You mentioned DOS, and he's the president of the DOS parliamentary group. When radicals are mentioned, you get the word as president of the parliamentary group. (Vojislav Seselj: Every time radicals are mentioned? ( b) When spoken of in an offensive way. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 31, against 104 abstentions, 17 of the 152 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 19th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Pavlovic and Milan Stankovic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you are, MP Milan Stankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17556	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, MP Slobodan Pavlovic and I have submitted an amendment to Article 19, which has 33 points. We have proposed amendments to points 4, 5, 14, 19, 26, 27 and we have proposed a new point 34. The first point we suggested the change is point 4. Point 4 states that the municipality shall arrange or provide for the implementation and development of municipal activities, treatment, water distribution, production and supply of steam and hot water, etc. We have proposed that, if the competences of the municipalities resulting from specific laws are already taxed, it should be introduced into the law and the proposed text of the amendment, because it is in the interest of the citizens. For example, large atmospheric rainfalls, floods, etc. This completes the performance of municipal activities. The second point at which we suggested changes is point 5. She speaks of the municipality being responsible and taking care of the maintenance of residential buildings and the safety of their use. We believe that after privatization of the housing fund it is entirely irrelevant that the municipality determines the amount of compensation for use, i.e. maintenance of residential buildings. Because we believe that it is against the constitution, we have proposed a change in point 5, where after the word "use" the point is placed, and the words "confirms the fee for maintenance of residential buildings" are deleted. Point 14 is the next point where we suggested changes. She talks about the municipality setting up institutions or organisations in the field of primary education, culture, primary health care, etc. At point 14, we proposed the next amendment, taking care to meet certain needs of citizens in the fields of culture, education, health and social protection, social care for children, physical culture, sport, tourism, and according to the law. All these powers should be defined by specific laws, so that within those laws, they determine the position of municipalities and the material basis for entrusted tasks. This wording of "old self" is much closer to the Constitution, and that is why we have proposed a change like this. We also suggested a change in point 19. It speaks of the use of a natural drug factor and thus enables the municipality to determine the amount of compensation for the use of a natural and medicinal factor. (President: I warn you on time. Let me finish, just a little bit longer. We have suggested that, at point 19, the word "height" be replaced by the words "up to 30% of the use of the natural glucose factor". We believe that this is necessary because of the possibility of abuse of the position of municipal executives, which can practically be used by institutions dealing with the use of these thermal mineral waters to blackmail institutions and thus endanger the functioning of these institutions and make it impossible for workers to earn their bread. (President: Mr. Stankovic, I warn you twice. ) At one more point, we suggested a change. This is point 26, which speaks of the organisation of municipalities, where appropriate, the service of legal assistance to citizens. We believe that the words "if necessary" should be thrown out and instead put "the obligation is to the municipality to provide legal assistance to all citizens". That way the citizens would even themselves out in front of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17557	The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj called for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17558	In legal normation, the greatest danger exists in the sphere of jurisdiction. If that's not the case, then law and law enforcement can really be a criminal act or an instrument of crime. For example, in our situation, any law passed by this national assembly, which is applied in practice, and there is no possibility for Serbian citizens to challenge the law before the Constitutional Court, can in principle be a crime. You bring in the law of extraprofit, anti-constitutional, retroactive tax law. The application of that law is a crime. You did not allow citizens to dispute the law before the Constitutional Court of Serbia, because you deliberately did not allow the Constitutional Court of Serbia to be established. A second legal act that is not in the form of the law, but is a regulation with the legal force is a regulation by the government of the Republic of Serbia to which you delivered Milosevic. It's a crime and one day you'll be responsible for that crime.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17559	Mr. Seselj, please return to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17560	This is the topic. Yes, it is. If you allow Cedomir Jovanovic a moment ago to prove here that law enforcement can't commit a crime - it can, I'm trying to explain it to him. [[President: It was a replica. Replica has no theme.]] I understand, he's not educated, he's not young enough to justify his youth not knowing what jurisdiction is... (President: I warn you twice to return to the agenda, it is an amendment to Article 19) ... A unit of local self-government. I'm proving that, through reckless determination of jurisdiction, units of local self-government can open up a space for committing crimes, evil deeds, criminal acts. In this case, he really can. It is too dangerous for a local self-government unit to give the right to move citizens out of their apartments, under the firm that they entered these apartments illegally years ago. It's something you can't give to a local self-government unit. This may be in jurisdiction exclusively by the judicial authorities, which is particularly concerned with the examination of the property aspect. He can't have local self-government judge property matters. She's not even competent to do that. The local self-government also has political authorities. A politician heads local self-government. A politician who is unprofessional, like Cedomir Jovanovic. You're giving unprofessional politicians judgment in their own rights. He can't. In its own right, the only competent court, the judicial authority, is because the judicial authority is primarily composed of experts. Only an expert can decide in his own matters. When a non-professional begins to deal with his own questions, then crimes are imminent. He can't be the authority that decides his property.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17561	Time. The word has a minister of justice and local self-government, Mr Vladan Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17562	I just have to remind myself that under the existing law, too, because the authorities of local self-government are in charge of this matter, according to the now applicable law passed by the former government.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17563	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: Replica, thought of me when he said the Law on Public Information, said Seselj's Law... ) Please, did the SRS, the Public Information Act, not say Seselev, say he did not. You can't get a replica of the name of the law, you might be mentioned. Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 36, against 101, the abstentions were not voted 19, out of 156 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Sinisa Mitrovic to article 19. The Government, the Committee on Justice and Administration and the Committee on Environmental Protection have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. A group of MPs: Vladimir Dobrosavljevic, Petar Majarevic, Zoran M. Nikolic, Dragan Jočić, Dusan Golubović, Slavoljub Matić, Milutin Svetkovic and Petar Cvetkovic submitted to the amendment. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. For the representative is appointed MP Slavoljub Matic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17564	At the suggestion of the Committee on Construction, it was proposed to DSS MPs to make one precision at point 10) of Article 19, where "building and reconstruction of local roads" would add the term "rehabilitation" of local roads and roads in settlements, because we all know what reconstruction and construction means, and rehabilitation would literally mean repairing the road in the part where holes or signallings are located. As for Article 19, we would like to remind ourselves that there is a Law on Baths. The law was passed in 1992 and Article 13. The law on spas allows the National Assembly to determine the amount of compensation that local self-government, i.e. local self-government communities, is the height for exploiting medicinal properties of spas and other sources. Therefore, we believe that this second part, which is the second part of point 19, should be deleted from this and the Bane Act activated. That was the basic motive to propose these changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17565	The words came from Justice and Local Self-Government Minister Mr. Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17566	The government accepts the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17567	The government has accepted the amendment, but since the committees have not accepted the amendment, I am putting this amendment to the vote. For 112, against 27, a abstentioned one, did not vote 18, out of 158 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 19th Amendment was submitted by MP Sredoje Mihajlov. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I give my word to the People's Messenger, Sredo Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17568	As I have submitted two amendments to Article 19, I would like to explain, in particular, every amendment. First, by amendment at point 19, I asked that "the organs be educated" be added "agricultural service, green police, and for the needs of the municipality and edit, or organise their work". Let me tell you, the field service may have been out of line, but it's incomprehensible that I didn't come across an understanding of the government, because right now big damage is happening in our fields, and that's what we inherited from our predecessors. It was 50 years ago that some order was introduced and there were no Polish damages, and now, under the applicable laws, Polish damage is treated up to 1,000 dinars. What does that look like in the fields now? Someone goes, knocks out 10 kilos of tomatoes or something like that, goes home with a bag, and no one can stop it, because it's Polish damage, it's not guilty; so ten times in the day he can go back home to take it home; or if he wants the owner to stop it, even then there's a reckoning, or even smoking, which was in each of the athars. Of course, for those great Polish damages, when they robbed someone in the morning of corn or took away the morning of the decathline, it remains undiscovered, and I believe that local self-government should take care of it, to organize that agricultural service for protection. Of course, there goes the green police because there's something going on right now that was happening to us 100 years ago. Unfortunately, we also have to protect our fields, our fields, and what to say, I think it's reasonable to have the jurisdiction of local self-government; perhaps I haven't explained enough, or been suggestive and lobbying, but I think this is the last moment that we can correct it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17569	National MP Vojislav Seselj, president of the SRS parliamentary group, spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17570	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS parliamentary group will not vote for this amendment and we find it rather pointless, but we draw attention to point 29) which would have to be thrown out of this member of the law, since the local self-government unit must not be put in charge to provide public information in its area. The freedom of public information must be guaranteed by a state act, by law; that freedom of public information must not be adapted to itself and must not be freely interpreted, by any other institution of the system that it is concerned. In the last term, we had a good Law on Public Information, which only prevented two things: the re-emission of foreign spy radiotelevision programs through domestic media and libel through the media, threatening heavy fines. What is the situation now in the information, we see it on all the media under DOS control, on state television, on TV "Politics", TV BK, Studio B, Pink and all the other TVs. Round tables when held, only the same-minded, DOS people are called, or people close to DOS. There is no freedom of information in Serbia now. The opposition parties are not available at all, and since the previous elections, no one from the SRS has hosted on state television, on TV "Politicals", at Study B, except in one case, on BK TV, or on any other TV under DOS control. It is a crime against the freedom of the press, according to the freedom of the media, and it is carried out by DOS authorities; and of course this DOS government is this and this is the type of minister Batic representing, he is actually a symbol of the DOS government.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17571	Are any of the other authorised promoters answering for a word? No, I don't. ) Please, the word is Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the DOS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17572	Mr Vice President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think it is necessary to respect all those positive segments of the existing law and in this way do not do in those areas where this does not require dramatic change. This proposal of MEPs from the Vojvodina Coalition is in itself affecting some other areas that, I think, have been properly resolved; among other things, the omnibus law, which has transferred certain responsibilities to the level of the province, which is certainly more careful to deal with the problems created in the previous decade. As for those who criticise the existing law in those areas mentioned during the presentation of my predecessors, I would advise them to read the law that they have voted for, among other things, by giving uncut support to the very segments of the law we are talking about now, which are so fiercely critical. So, in Article 22. The Law on Local Self-Government, adopted by the 1999 Assembly, is literally talking about those rights and duties of local self-government that some MPs here have criticised, mentioning crimes. The law cannot be a crime in democratic Serbia, but I agree that we have had these sad examples in our near past in which laws and their application were marked by crime and accident. The municipality is conducting a procedure for the immigration of illegally displaced persons into dwellings and the common room, as established by the 1990 Law, and this has been confirmed among other things by the law we are discussing today. It's the same situation with public information. We know very well what the role of public information funds at the level of local self-government and how, fortunately, unsuccessful efforts were made by representatives of today's opposition trying to deal with the funds of public information that were out of their control. We need to talk to the pietate about local self-government, because we are obliged to respect the fact that local self-government is described as the last base of democracy in Serbia, which was a non-democratic society during the previous decade. So, the area of public information must be carefully treated, we must consult trends that have been established in our society and certainly do not endanger something that is positive. It's not for criticism, it's for praise.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17573	Since no one's answering for a word anymore, I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For seven against 116, two abstentions, 17 did not vote, a total of 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Michael's looking for a word. ) When you answered the word, you said that in your presentation you would explain one and the other amendment, so that it was understood and I think it was over. Member of the 19th amendment was submitted by the MP of the people, Zaharija Trnavcevic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's Messenger, Zechariah Trnavčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17574	Dear Presidency, fellow MPs, this amendment, which I have tabled, is in fact a proposal from the Association of Serbia to put a new point in Article 19 after point 25 to say that the municipal assembly encourages and assists the development of cooperatives. The situation in the cooperative movement is catastrophic. Many cooperatives have died and there is no support, no intention, not even awareness in the municipalities that for this agriculture and this country it is good to associate farmers, that it is very important to unite farmers, to have their own cooperatives as they had 100 years ago. In Article 19, it is said that the municipality of the municipality takes care of the development of tourism, the development and improvement of hospitality, craftsmanship, etc. The cooperative has wiped out the government and it assures farmers that agriculture is not even the ninth hole in the play, but is not at all on the play. I ask the government's representative and the MPs to vote in favour of this amendment to meet with one smart proposal of the Union of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17575	The word is made by Minister Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17576	The government accepts the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17577	The word has the People's Messenger Dr Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17578	Since the committees have not accepted this amendment, I am reporting on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group. We Serbian radicals believe that this amendment should be accepted, it is good that Mr Trnavcevic said the Association of Serbia stands behind this amendment and it is indeed an authority to whom to trust. If they are seeking such support from the municipality, it would be wrong for the municipality to have the possibility of imposing cooperatives on someone, but another thing is if the cooperative is a spontaneous phenomenon, interest, desire, the need of agricultural producers; and not just agricultural producers, because cooperatives are also useful in other spheres of activity, i.e. in cooperativeship, today's stock companies, shareholders' societies. That is why we will support this amendment as one useful municipal jurisdiction, a new jurisdiction. And as for legality in democratic Serbia, of course, I agree here with Cedomir Jovanovic, whom one truth was accidentally subdued in speech. In democratic Serbia, law enforcement could not be a crime. Unfortunately, we do not yet have democratic Serbia. We will only have democratic Serbia once all its institutions function in a democratic way. First of all, there is no democratic Serbia and there is an impossible democratic Serbia without the Constitutional Court of Serbia. Secondly, it is high time that Cedomir Jovanovic stopped calling for what was written in the laws in 1990. The fact that something was written in the 1990 law today is no argument in itself. I guess we're in favour of changing what the law says in 1990. We've been trying for the past few years to change some things. Obviously, enough has not changed, and in this case what was written in 1990 is due to change, because in 1990 it was not good. If we aim at freedom of information, then the state needs as little to interfere in this sphere as possible, to bring the public media down to a minimum and be the only one in the hands of the republican government. One state television, one state radio, etc., and everything else to be free and private. Only then is freedom of information possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17579	The word is by MP Branislav Ivkovic, acting as president of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17580	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs of the Socialist Party of Serbia will support Mr. Zahari Tranvcevic's amendment in full, as it has been submitted, to encourage and assist the development of cooperatives. This is a logical consequence, finally, of something that happened just back in 1990, when the cooperative property thanks to the socialists was introduced as a constitutional category, equal to all forms of property. It is also important for local self-government to design different forms of association in the country, in order to develop the village, primarily because of the remains of young people and women in the village. In that sense, we will support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17581	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote, which the government has accepted, but the committees are not. For 133, no one with abstentions voted 13, a total of 146 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 19th Amendment was submitted by MP Mujo Mukovic. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here's a word from MP Zeljo Huric, deputy president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17582	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is about expanding the original work of the local self-government unit. In fact, a new point is being added that the local self-government unit is expected to take care of the establishment and organisation of local police, as well as the municipal body for violations, in accordance with the statute and law. This is one consequence of Chapter 2.1.3 and Article 22, which provides for the establishment of local police. I really don't see a reason why it shouldn't be listed as the original detour, unless you think that this clean local authority is organizing and setting up someone from a higher level. For these reasons, I believe that the amendment should be accepted. The government’s explanation contained in one sentence, as if this issue would be harmonised, or explained by a new law that regulates these issues, is, in my opinion, quite casual and gives no answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17583	Thank you. People's MP Vojislav Seselj, as president of the parliamentary group, answered the words.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17584	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have expressed myself negatively in the principle debate and there will be times when we reach that member of the law, but I hope by that moment the government will change its mind and give up the local police, because it would be very dangerous. I'm trying to talk about it without any party concern. It's dangerous for every authority if such a dispersion is carried out by the police. But it would be very bad here, even if the authority of the congregation, or municipalities, was accepted on the subject of so - called “the congregation. ” the municipal body for violations. That's our classic misdemeanor court. As the regular courts had only in the name - municipal, so did the courts for the offenses - the municipal court for the offenses, which is what they now say - the body for the offenses. But it can't be the authority of local self-government. The area of crime is very close to the criminal sphere, the sphere of prosecution. But the violations are not the jurisdiction of the judicial authority, but of the administrative-executive authorities. It's an exception to all other crimes. The offence was shortened in criminal proceedings. Penalties in criminal proceedings are a kind of criminal sentence limited by severity and duration, if they are prison sentences. I could explain to you for a long time why a court of offense would not have the right in a democratic state to impose fines, but only fines. But that's already another problem, and there will probably be opportunities to talk about some other legal projects. No one else here but the central, state, executive-government authority should have jurisdiction when it comes to the prosecution of a violation. That is, therefore, the government's jurisdiction, or ministry. It's usually the Justice Department. In some countries it is also the interior ministry. That fact should also be considered. Infractions have been prosecuted in civilised countries in this way by the administrative authorities because it is usually necessary to shorten the procedure which is longer before the court and because it is necessary to react urgently in certain specific situations. But with us, it's limited to saying, for example, all two months in prison. It shouldn't be that much. We had cases of abuse of that institution in Tito's time, when people were prevented from being shut down by the executive and given them these short terms of time, so they wouldn't bother at a certain point. You shouldn't even have the administrative authority to have these powers so wide-ranging, let alone local authorities. Imaginesada - the president of the municipality or mayor, whom you so understand in this law, becomes the authority of the municipality, is the only executive authority, everything is under his control, and even sets up a judge for violations and a law enforcement authority and on the other hand has police. So, he arrests and immediately takes to the judge for violations. So do you think there should be an initiative in that municipality at all, an official initiative to shift mayors? I shouldn't have. Whoever dares, this one arrests him immediately, convicts him for two months for a misdemeanor and that's it. That would be a miracle from the state in the right sense of words. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17585	The word is from Mr Vladan Batic, the minister of justice and local self-government.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17586	I must say that such a provision does not contain this law anywhere. (Vojislav Seselj, from the post - it is about the amendment. You applied to the law. The government didn't accept the amendment. Therefore, there's no need for him to get involved in this.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17587	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Replica - MP Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17588	I wasn't even talking about the government here this time. I was only talking about the amendment. And what's up... [[You can't hear any comments from the gym.]] The amendment accepts or does not accept the Assembly, not the Government. That -- what the government's position on this amendment is is of no interest to me. Because if most MPs plead to accept the amendments, then the government's opinion is quite declassified and it's not about the government, at least this time. It's only about the amendment of one MP. And this is about whether or not the Assembly will vote the amendment. And you, somehow by inert, think if the government didn't accept it, neither should the Assembly. Well, you know, in that first term, when the Socialists had 196 MPs, this was where the Assembly voted and that amendment against which the government was against. And it's been happening a lot.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17589	Are any of the other authorised participants applying for this amendment? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For one, against 118, the abstentions were not voted by 17, a total of 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Petar Petrovic submitted to the 19th amendment. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? (Givko Selakovic answers the word and goes to the speaker. ) You are Zivko Selaković, not Petar Petrovic. You're not an applicant for the amendment. There's a word from MP Zivko Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17590	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, this is not the first time that Mrs. Micic has ignored, Malta, our functions in the Soviet Parliament group. He does not know that Zivko Selakovic is the deputy head of the SS Group, that Mr Dragan Markovic - Palma, the president of the SSJ, and Mr Pelevic, when he speaks, speaks as an authorised representative of the SSJ parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17591	I apologize to you. I really thought Mr. Pelevic was the vice president.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17592	You know well that Zeljo Huric is the vice president of a party, and you do not know who is deputy head of the parliamentary group, fifth largest in the Serbian Parliament. I'd like to, and I'd like to ask you not to count this time on my exposure. The amendment of the SSJ parliamentary group, submitted by MP Petar Petrovic, reads: "Article 19, paragraph 1, post-33, adds a new point 34) which reads: "old and provides conditions for maintenance, use and construction of public shelters in accordance with the law". Point 34) becomes point 35. Here are the reasons for the amendment - experience in the use and maintenance of public shelters - that local self-government at times of war and other disasters was forced to take care of public shelters on its own. What I'm saying is, it's well known to all of us, what we've suffered, what shelters we've had, how the people, where they cover local self-government, how they've managed, and what conditions people have spent their time, etc. I would also like to underline that this amendment by the Assembly Group of the SS, which was submitted by Mr Petar Petrovic, should be accepted, especially for the reasons we know well, and some pretend not to know, that when a building permit is issued, 2% is charged to the value of the project. So, the sea of resources is harvested right there in local self-government, in places where that money should be directed. No one is opposed to being here as it says in the explanation, the old government, etc., but it is our amendment that the funds be left there for people who collect it, that they look after the construction, security and maintenance of this shelter, because as we do, gentlemen, it is no wonder that anything can happen to us again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17593	He has the word National MP Zeljo Huric (replica).
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17594	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I felt that the predecessor had called me in a very negative context. I think of myself here as the rank of all the deputies, the deputy of all the parliamentary groups, so as anyone sees me, it's his personal matter. What I felt at that moment when I heard my predecessor calling me, it seemed too morbid, inhuman, and I wouldn't want to comment any further.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17595	There is a word from MP Vojislav Seselj, acting as president of the SR parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17596	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the SRS parliamentary group will not accept this amendment, because we believe that it must not be the responsibility of units of local self-government to care for the maintenance, use and construction of public shelters, in accordance with the law, but it could be recast that the local self-government unit has certain obligations in this sphere, of course, in accordance with the law and in accordance with the decisions of the National Defence Authority. It would be very bad if this issue were entirely left to local self-government, as many of them would not take care of it at all. Unfortunately, they would have had money, and under certain conditions those shelters could indeed be needed. And I am very sorry that this debate takes such an unpleasant tone, and here we are explaining whether Dragan Markovic-Palma is the head of the parliamentary group, whether Zivko Selakovic is the deputy boss, there is no telling what Borislav Pelevic is. Let's find out once, is this Borislav Pelevic really a professor? He's always acting like a professor somewhere, and I know for a fact that no college has ever finished. How could he be a professor of someone who didn't graduate from college? (President: Please return to the agenda point. ) You're the one who started the debate on this matter. You know, he teaches and Marian Risticevic sometimes does his best, but that's no reason to be a professor, he can be a lecturer, not a professor. He's throwing it at me, so I'm telling him. How can someone be a professor who hasn't even finished college? Maybe he tried, so by the time he got to the first year, he might have reached half the second year. Don't bother us in this case any more. And you to intervene every time someone here fakes themselves - Professor Borislav Pelevic, just work, listen, professor.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17598	He has the word National MP Marijan Rističević [[right on line]]
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17599	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, since the gentleman in question called me, I am no expert in pre-war training. I believe that you understand yourself in those shelters, etc., I even believe that during the war you used those shelters well. You must be an expert in shelters, pre-war training experts, etc. You once said here at the pay phone -- who's a professor, who's not a professor, we're not ours to determine, but let's remember what you once said here: "You know, when I started thinking with my head, I was raping the Communist party." But you know what the problem is -- that you became a doctor of science until you thought for yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17600	There is a word from MP Vojislav Seselj (in the Rules of Procedure).
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17601	Ladies and gentlemen, this is a criminal case against Marijan Risticevic. A criminal report, which points to Marijan Risticevic as a man, as an businessman, as a resourceful MP and as a DOS.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17602	You've reached out to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17603	Well, I wanted to show you...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17604	To which member of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17605	I wanted to show you that according to the Rules of Procedure, I have the right to show criminal charges against Marijan Risticevic, and you will be able to read this criminal report in full in the next issue of "Great Serbia".
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17606	The word has been given by MP Marijan Rističević, a right to replication, since MP Vojislav Seselj used the right of discussion in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17607	For everything that's been said here, we DOS are on our own. Here comes the time for war extra-profits, who, as they fled Kosovo, fled with their heads regardless, built themselves some towers and 500 square-square castles. Here's the time for these war profiteers to file a criminal charges against us. It's our fault we didn't lock them up in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17608	The word is given by MP Zivko Selakovic, deputy president of the Soviet Parliament group, right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17609	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm using the opportunity for a replica, based on the mention of my name from Mr. Voja Seselj. First of all, I'm not going to go into the controversy here with Mr. Voy, which is Professor Pelevic by profession. I would only point out, given our friendship, that it is not appropriate to talk about a man, and he is not present. I would suggest that Mr. Voja Seselj, without Mr. Pelevic's presence, does not discuss it. There's something else I'd like to underline. I justifiably objected to Mrs. Natasa Micic and I resented her - how come after a year and a few days she doesn't know who the president is, who's the vice president of the parliamentary groups, when it's neatly delivered to the president of the Assembly. I think my comment was in place. I explained very nicely here, and I did not mention Professor Peljevićani with any quality, but I said that the president of the parliamentary group Dragan Markovic - Palma, deputy president of the MP group Zivko Selakovic, and that Mr Pelevic always spoke as an authorised representative of the SSJ parliamentary group. (Vojislav Seselj: According to the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-07-0.u17610	I'm not giving you my word, because it's 6:00 p.m. and, according to the Rules of Procedure, business hours are over. The work continues on Monday. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, today's session is attended by 180 MPs. Please, in order to determine the quorum, insert identification cards into MPs. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I ask you to receive an apology for the delay, which has been made due to the visit of the High Delegation of the Bundestag National Assembly. I hope you'll appreciate that apology. I would like to inform you that they are prevented from attending the following MPs: Miroslav Markicevic, Miodrag Jaćimović, Dragan Jočić, Vladimir Dobrosavljevic, Radmilo Milosevic, Branko Besevic, Bogoljub Zečević, Zlata Djerić, Branimir Trajkovic, Vasilija Pavić, Biači Anton, Ratimir Svirčević, Branislav Pomorički and Ljubisa Djokovic; (before noon) Stanko Kovacevic, Petar Misic, Goran Vesic, Dragan Sutanovac and Dragan Janjic. The delay was announced by Juhas Attil and Ispanovich Istvan. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. Also, in accordance with Articles 83 and 84. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that I also invited representatives of the National Movement "Resist", representatives of the Association of Families of Kidnapped and Missing Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija, as well as representatives of the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities of Yugoslavia on the third item of the agenda. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: - THE PROPOSAL OF THE LOCAL Self-GOVERNMENT (single) I remind you that the debate on the Proposal for a Law on Local Self-Government in particular was interrupted during the review of the amendment to Article 19, which was submitted by MP Petar Petrovic. I would also like to remind you that MPs Zivko Selakovic, deputy president of the Serbian Unity Party's parliamentary group and Dr Vojislav Seselj, president of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group, participated in the search for the amendment. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. I ask the MPs to declare themselves by voting. For 52, against 120, with no abstentions, 9 did not vote, a total of 181 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 19th Amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Pomorski. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I'm putting it to a vote. For 8, against 168, the two abstentions, were not voted by 8, a total of 186 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Parliament of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina and MP Branislav Pomoriski submitted to the 20th amendment, in the same text. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 20th Amendment was submitted by MP Mujo Mukovic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) Here you are, and I remind you that the debate is limited to three minutes.
