ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22314	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the Fourth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, the session is attended by 133 MPs. I find that using the electronic system has established that we have a quorum. The session is attended by 131 MPs. I would like to inform you that they are prevented from attending the following MPs: Živojin Stjepić, Vlatko Sekulović, Jelena Milenković-Orlić, Momir Radoičić, Slobodan Pavlovic, Zaharija Trnavčević, Kermeci Karolj and Dragan Subasic; Branislav Kovacevic and Dragan Milentjevic in the morning. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. Also, according to members 83 and 84. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that I invited representatives of the Centre for Free Elections and Democracy, the People's Movement "Resist", the National Democratic Institute, the Association of University Teachers and Teachers of Serbia - the Kolubara Section and USAID to this session. I welcome the guests present. 141 MPs are present in the O.R. You were presented the minutes of the Third Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002, held on 18, 19 and 20 June 2002. As more than 126 MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from the previous session (Article 82). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the review in the Management Board's work department found that none of the Members of the People's Committee delivered in writing an objection to the minutes of the previous session and I am voting on the minutes of the session of the Third Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002, held on 18, 19 and 20 June 2002. I ask the MPs to declare themselves by voting on the minutes of the session of the Third Extraordinary Session. For 115, no one with abstentions voted 36 out of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the session of the Third Extraordinary National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002, held on 18, 19 and 20 June 2002. You have accepted the resignation of MP Rodoljub Sabic as vice-president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. In accordance with Article 33(1) and Article 29(3) thereof. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall not open a search, nor be decided on, but the termination of the function on this basis shall only be determined. In accordance with Article 29 of Article 3. The Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly finds that the post of vice-president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has ceased on the day of the resignation of the People's Parliament of Rodoljub Sabic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with a call for the Fourth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002, which was called at the request of a group of 116 MPs of the Democratic Opposition Group of Serbia, acting under Article 79(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 162. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have been sent to you for the holding of the Fourth Extraordinary Session, with the agenda set out in that request. You received a notice from the applicant's representatives to hold the Fourth Extraordinary Session, MP Cedomir Jovanovic, on the change in the order of reviewing the agenda of the Fourth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002. You have also received a letter from the Government of the Republic of Serbia since 1 July 2002, notifying that, according to Article 139. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, withdraws from the procedure a draft law on broadcasting, which submitted to the National Assembly on 5 April 2002. On the basis of the agenda set out in the request of a group of 116 MPs of the Democratic Opposition of Serbia parliamentary group, notices on the change in the order of discussion of the agenda points and letters of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the withdrawal of the Law on Broadcasting for the Fourth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002, the following dn e n e d: 1. Proposal for the appointment of the Secretary of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, who was tabled by the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia; 2. Proposal for a law on public procurement, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia; 3. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Law in State Authorities, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia; 4. Proposal for a law amending the Ministry Act, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia; the 5th Proposal for a Decision on Animal Health Measures in the Republic of Serbia for 2002, 2003 and 2004, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We move to the 1st point of the agenda : - Proposal FOR THE NAME OF THE SECRETARY OF THE National COMMUNITY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA. You received a proposal from the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to appoint Angelka Dimitrijevic as Secretary of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Before the search opens, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to submit a list of registered speakers on this agenda item. I am opening a hearing on a proposal to appoint the secretary of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I ask if the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want to speak on this agenda point? The word is made by MP Vojislav Seselj, president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22315	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a proposal to appoint a new secretary of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The proposal came after the secretary's resignation, which did not expire until the end. I don't think the National Assembly has any reason to regret that the previous secretary resigned because he was doing his job very badly. However, the very fact that we had a secretary of the National Assembly who, I was convinced, most MPs would confirm that he had failed to perform his post well and had to resign before the end of the term of office, had to resign or whatever it was, does not matter, raises the issue of parliamentary staff policy, as the secretary of the National Assembly is one of the highest officials appointed by the Assembly. The functioner is the legislative authorities. We have a proposal ahead of us to elect a new secretary. I don't think the proposal is complete. I have no intention of talking about the candidate himself, I don't know him, I'm not particularly relevant about him, I haven't heard or found out... (The President-in-Office)... I'm talking about a candidate. (Lowers-candidate. I'm talking about a candidate. Oh, I'm talking about the candidate. (Glass-candidate. Here we go again. You can have a letter, and a candidate... [[Laughter]] (President: Please do not disturb the speaker. )......................................................................................................... And, Professor, you can have all that. I'm talking about a candidate for Secretary of the National Assembly. (Lowers-candidate. ) It's a function. What are you guys getting into so much of these sex differences when you started introducing new sexes to us? We've seen in some other legal project, even if you think that gender traits are a matter of free definition for each individual. Well, don't, you're a little courteous about it. Yes, you also introduce the middle sex, and - undefined sexes, and - free sexual commitment; what God has created and predetermined in you is a matter of freedom of determination. This is about the candidate. So someone who needs to perform a certain function in the next period. If we choose a woman once as President of the Republic, then she will not be - the President of the Republic, but the President of the Republic. And those of you who haven't studied Serbian enough yet, you better keep your mouth shut, because you don't have to advertise your ignorance on all bells. Let's get back to the candidate. (Lowers-candidate. Listen, I've got about 40 or 50 minutes to talk about this, so you're free to spend my time anyway, I didn't know what to say in those 50 minutes. So this dialogue with you suits me. [[Laughter]] When we received a proposal to elect a new secretary of the National Assembly, and if you have a candidate, then choose the secretary of the National Assembly, because it does not stand here - the secretary, it is a candidate for the secretary, and we expected to get certain information that is common, necessary, necessary when it comes to the choice for such a high function. This is a function within the parliamentary administration. Parliament has its own administration, as has the judiciary and executive power, but the administration of parliament, i.e. the administration of parliament, is full of certain specificities which are distinguished from the administration of the judicial and executive authorities, so that the function of the Secretary of the National Assembly is much more important than the functions of the Secretary of the Government, the Secretary of the Supreme Court, the Secretary of the Constitutional Court, etc. In order to be able to discuss the candidate metrically, we would have to have the information here when the candidate was born. We here have confirmation that the candidate was actually born and here he writes where he was born, but what's most important -- we don't know when he was born. We should know. It -- when the candidate is born, is more important than where he was born. The years must be determined, because this is not a lady's choice, but the secretary of the National Assembly is elected. When we choose the first lady of Parliament, then we will not ask to say what year she was born, then we will just see if she has healthy teeth or an artificial jaw. That might be one of the criteria. However, this is about the secretary of the National Assembly. We need to know what year the candidate was born, as we need to know about all the other high-ranking state officials; we had to know both about Kori Udovici and many others we had chosen before. It says here that the candidate graduated from the Faculty of Law in Belgrade. (votes-diploming. It says here she graduated. No, it's a candidate. But it doesn't stand what year she graduated. It's much more important than the fact where she graduated. Because on the basis of which year the candidate was born and which year he graduated from law school, we draw a lot of conclusions about the personality of the candidates. Is it a candidate who graduated from college within a regular period of four to four and a half years, which is something that can be tolerated, or is about a candidate who studied eight, ten or fifteen years, etc. It's very important for those functions where a very specific expert preparation is needed. It is not important for the minister, but it is important when it comes to the secretary of the National Assembly. The minister doesn't have to be a certain profession and specialty. The minister sometimes doesn't have to be written, we've had cases like this, but the Secretary of the National Assembly must be a graduate lawyer and we, as MPs, have the right to get information about the quality of that lawyer. If you haven't already listed his average in the course of the study here, then you were obliged to specify when he graduated from law school. Perhaps the average rating in itself does not mean much, but it does mean a lot the years of completion of study. Thirdly, here again, some information is given that the candidate himself listed, so it is said that the first working relationship, as an intern, was based in the National Assembly Service. And that's where we need to know what years. This is very important, and I insist that the National Assembly at least was orally announced when the candidate was born, which year ended Law School and when the candidate was employed in the National Assembly Service. As far as the candidate's personality is concerned, I wouldn't engage in any other details, and now a few words about what the secretary of the National Assembly should do. During these 12 years, the National Assembly changed several secretaries. Some of them have successfully done their jobs, some have not interfered at all in their responsibilities, and some have uncritically adapted themselves to the political position of the congregation’s majority or the leadership of the National Assembly, in violation of both the Constitution and the law and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I therefore point out that it is necessary for the Secretary of the National Assembly to choose a person with extremely high credibility, morality, expertise, a person who will be safe, who will not sacrifice his conscience, principles and dignity for certain political interests. We have had countless cases that the Secretary of the National Assembly participates in the violation of the Rules of Procedure, or puts himself in the role of the interpreters of the Rules of Procedure, and on the basis of his own archaic interpretation, even engages armed forces in the form of congregation security that the will of him who violates the Rules of Procedure be carried out mercilessly and for the rest of his life. Such a secretary is not needed by the National Assembly. The National Assembly needs a secretary to interpret law from a professional point of view. So he's not an authentic interpreter. An authentic interpreter can only be the National Assembly in general. However, authentic interpretation is always preceded by expert interpretation, which points to all legal aspects of the profession's view "not by the grandmother or by the uncles". We may never have had a secretary like that, but we'd have to pick him once. Whether it will be in this term, only in the next or next, it is difficult to assess today, especially for us who do not know your current candidate. And I'm not getting into what kind of candidate he is. I'm talking about what kind of candidate you should be, and you should assess whether you've just proposed and whether you should suggest it, or whether you need one like the one so far, but on the other hand, it's going to abuse its function and surreally interpret the Constitution, the laws and the Rules of Procedure. If you need a secretary who's going to be like that one so far, what's his name, Georgia, and then just turned in the mirror, then know that the National Assembly, as an institution, doesn't need it. Here we need a secretary of the National Assembly for whom there will be no MPs and MPs of the opposition, for whom all MPs will be equal and all assembly services subordinated to their needs; who will not manage the assembly services by manipulating the rights of the MPs or MPs-all of the parliamentary groups, as we now have the case - in the preparation of meetings of individual assembly committees, e.g. The Administrative Board, where some MPs, who are on the agenda, are not informed at all about the sitting, do not receive material for the sitting; or are being manipulated by the rights of the entire parliamentary groups, etc. These are all sensitive questions, where constitutional and legal rights are violated with the co-operation of officials of the National Assembly. It is the role of the secretary of the National Assembly to prevent the abuse of his servants and to be the controller of the work of each official, pointing out that he must strictly professionally perform his duties, not according to the wishes and needs of certain powers at a given time. Unfortunately, I said we didn't have secretaries like that before. This last one was the worst in that sense, and the next one remains to be seen. But the next one, if he wants to gain authority, must be set in principle. If this is set up, the new government will have no need to change the secretary. Is it possible to reach and run such a professional, that's another question. The new government always comes once, Milka, that's what you should know. (Milka Marinkovic, from the place: I know that. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22316	Please don't disturb the speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22317	In this case, we need to consider another important aspect - the secretary of the National Assembly is a key man, who has the congregation’s finances, a man who has the authority of the National Assembly. The question is immediately raised here - does the proposed candidate have the ability to deal with these affairs, is he ready and able to control these affairs and gain the trust of officials by his professional authority? If you've thought about it at all, you can't see it from this paper. You had to. The emissary turns paper. On the other hand, it's empty, it's always empty on the other side. That's what I'm talking about; either I don't see it or it's that ink you're writing on purpose so the opposition doesn't see it. But the opposition sees it when it closes, you lose sight of it. It's a nice dialogue like this. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, unless the president of the National Assembly has proposed a secretary who has such qualities, I suggest that the proposal be withdrawn and that a new candidate be considered. And if you are convinced that this candidate has sufficient qualifications, expertise, skills, knowledge, honesty, morals to perform his duties, know that the SRS will keep him directly under control, that every move he makes will evaluate and inform the public. We've done all of this in the case of the previous secretary, for the same reason we'll be working against this secretary, as we've held everyone under critical attention in the past 12 years. And where's Radmilo Bogdanovic? ) Radmilo Bogdanovic was not the secretary of the National Assembly, but the SRS publicly requested his shift in March 1991 at a press conference all the media reported. And as for Radmil Bogdanovic, many of you who are in the DOS now have no clear conscience, and Radmilo Bogdanovic could talk about them too. He told me about some of them, but that's another time, because today's not on the agenda. And in the end... (Glass from the O.R.: Really at the end? Come on, I've got 27 minutes left after, so it suits me that you're getting into my word like this. That "hot rabbit" method goes by someone, and someone doesn't pass. He's never been to my place. So you can do it till you're willing to do it. Finally, there is one question, which is very important -- the relationship of the current parliamentary majority towards the assembly administration in general. As soon as you took power, you began to scold the congregation administration, to unnecessarily fire some people, by party criteria, to bring new, weaker quality, more incompetent. I have nothing against it, it's your right. But know that you have introduced one method, which so far is unknown in our practice and that this method will be ready to apply anyone who comes to power after you. It will be known, when power is changed, all who have been brought by the previous government will pack their suitcases themselves, empty drawers and go away; new ones will come. This is the method you first introduced, in such a rigid, extreme form, and this method will be liked by all other parties; know that neither these personnel of yours, which you have imposed, which you have brought for these two years, and which you will bring for these few months as long as you will remain in power, will be not long after you have been in those functions. They'll have to share your political destiny after the next election.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22318	Do any of the representatives, or the president of the parliamentary groups, want a word on this agenda point? No, I don't. ) The word has the People's Messenger Pal Shandor.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22319	Dear colleagues, it is natural for the opposition to tear down those proposals that the position bears, but I think that one part of Mr. Seselj's discussion was incorrect, so I will allow myself the right to look back on that. What he was saying in general about the secretary is, I mean, and acceptable; he took this opportunity to elect a secretary and discuss this person to say and what he thinks what the secretary should normally do. Let me say the following - I think the proposal has been submitted in full accordance with Article 23, which says that the candidate for the secretary of the National Assembly proposes the president of the National Assembly (this is what she did, whether) and that the proposal contains the name and name of the candidates, biography, reasoning and consent. There's not a word about the average, the date of birth, and the other details that might have stood, but they don't matter. Let me also say what I generally think - Mrs. Angelka Dimitrijevic I've known by accident 11 years and I think it should be said that she is one of the most perfect lawyers in the congregation. Secondly, the president did not propose a man on the side, but someone on the inside who knows how parliament works. Now, in the places of the secretary and deputy secretary, unlike that time in 1991, you have a man who inside knows the parliamentary procedure, who is not brought on the side and knows really how parliament works, and it is also seen from the very biography that is accompanied by a typical lawyer. If a great lawyer, a man who has been proposed by these criteria, resents what Mr. Seselj has resented, then I don't think that's really correct. So I answered, I simply felt the moral need to defend someone who was quality enough and very, I would dare say, a very good proposal. It's not my proposal, it's the president's proposal, but he's, I mean, totally acceptable to all of us. On the other hand, what Mr. Seselj was saying on sexist topics, sex relations, etc., it is interesting and that my colleague, Senka Savivić, analyzes what is called – the analysis of the discourse (at the Faculty of Philosophy is called); several people are the rule of seminar and I guess graduates on this subject and now Mr. Seselj can further exploit it and it will be very instructive. Therefore, I think the proposal to choose Mrs Dimitrijevic is completely fine from all sides and if it were to be said that what she is proposing in this case is, I would dare say, the right choice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22320	The basis for the replica? You think you're misread, don't you? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22321	Mr. Pal Shandor misread me with two aspects. First of all, I didn't criticize the candidate at all, and I pointed out -- I don't remember ever seeing that candidate, and I don't have anything bad to say about the candidate himself, or I've heard anything bad about him, or I've asked a lot of questions about him. But if a résumé is needed, then the question is, what kind of résumé where the year of birth is not contained. It's basic to biography. You can take your biography down to one sentence, but that sentence must have a year of birth. It says here that the candidate was born in Belgrade, and it could say that the candidate was born in a flower of youth, in the earliest youth, that she was born very young, very, very young, but there is no year of birth. It says here that the candidate graduated from law school, but when? I guess that's basic to biography. I don't know, Mr. Shandor, it seems to me, unlike many of you, he's quite reading. He also read many biographies and prefaces in many books, where biographic data is contained. I ask him if he remembers a biography he read, and that it does not contain the year of the author's birth or the man whose biography it is, unless it is an unknown year of birth and it is emphasized - the year of birth unknown, it is assumed. If you and your candidate don't know the year of birth, at least assume, speak up -- between 1915 and 1925, or between 1945 and 1950, or between 1960 and 1965; it doesn't matter at all, but that's what you're supposed to say here.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22322	At the insistence of MP Vojislav Seselj, and not necessarily, I will only present the data - Mrs Angelka Dimitrijevic, candidate for National Assembly Secretary, was born in 1938, graduated from the Faculty of Law in 1962, in the National Assembly in 1963. Does MP Vojislav Seselj apply for a word according to the list of registered speakers? Do you want a word? Yeah. Here you go. Now you have the information.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22323	Excuse me, what year did you say the secretary was born?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22324	I'm sorry, you didn't listen; I, for your insistence, made a fine announcement, and you didn't listen very carefully.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22325	Did you say 1938? You have to tell me, you have to give me information.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22326	I owe you, and I told you, and you have to listen, it's 1938.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22327	Now, you've explained here to the National Assembly why you've been hiding it from your biography. A candidate for the secretary of the National Assembly was born in 1938 and is a female. Women at 63 years of age are retired by law, right? Your candidate is 64 years old and you choose him, so for a certain period of time, for which month he has to retire on a male basis. I don't know how you planned for these middle sex people, what you're saying there now is that they're freely committed to gender, etc. - maybe it's from the aspect of the Labour Act, so what's more appropriate to him. A man who has female proclivities if he's 63 years old, leaves at 63 years old, and a woman with male proclivities if he's 65, and I don't want to get into that. This is where your personnel policy falls. What is the interest of the National Assembly to choose a woman I have nothing wrong with saying, I stress, but she is 64 years old. Why is she choosing the secretary of the National Assembly? In a year, he has to retire on every basis. What kind of personnel policy is that? I guess it takes for the Secretary of the National Assembly to choose relatively... For a pension basis, is Stanko Kovacevic? Why don't you just say that in an explanation, she needs a woman for a retirement basis, so we can pick her out. If you put that in an explanation, I wouldn't answer for a word at all. I'd say-- well, maybe she really needs a wife. You know, it doesn't matter to me, as an SRS MP, whether you have a secretary or you don't have a secretary and who's going to do your job, from the point of view of previous experience with the secretaries of the National Assembly, but here you demonstrate a very bad human policy. It comes exclusively from the personal interest of that person who needs to increase the salary for a pension internship a little bit. What, then, as an MP to the SRS, does the opposition first come to mind? That it's some kind of corruption, which I don't know. I'm not in the middle of anything, and it was weird for me that you were hiding your year of birth, and that was all that mattered to me. Next, is it about falling in love, what is it now? You can do anything, I'm ready for dialogue on all topics, Neda Arnerić knows that, so we can talk about everything. But perhaps now is not the time, now is the time to discuss your staff policy and the election of the secretary of the National Assembly. I'm only having one question - the fact that you choose a lady who is 64 today as secretary of the National Assembly. From that point of view, I conclude that your human policy is bad, missed, that instead of the interests of the National Assembly you represent some partial and individual interests and that you are actually sacrificing the objective interests of the National Assembly, of all MPs and authorities and of the opposition that the Secretary of the National Assembly should be professional, safe, responsible, moral, and in some more full-fledged life force, not directly before retirement or someone who fulfilled the legal conditions for retirement a year ago. If you don't have in your 18-party lawyer to do the job, say, call the competition, go public -- it's wanted, it's wanted. Don't do this to the National Assembly. What does this look like to the entire Serbian public today? At 64, she was elected secretary of the National Assembly, and the public wonders why she didn't retire last year. You've driven out of the service of many capable from the Assembly, the Government and all other institutions of the government you run. Among them, many lawyers and people of different professions, and now you subjugate some of the basic principles of human policy to one person. Trying to talk about this subject for almost an hour, I must admit I failed, but I did make the point. Someone who is 64 years old, as your candidate, should not be elected president of the National Assembly. (President: We do not elect a president. ) For the secretary of the National Assembly. For the president, it could be 100 and 120 years for the president, but for the secretary of the National Assembly, for the head of the civil apparatus of the National Assembly shouldn't. That's what I'm trying to explain to you, and it's not discrimination. The Secretary of the National Assembly has a mandate as much as the Assembly. You are now choosing half the term of office of the secretary you know in advance of the law in that place cannot remain until the end of the term of office, until the end of the second half of the term. He can't be the secretary of the National Assembly at 66 years of age, but the president can; but he has to go to your list first, then to the elections, so if you get most of them to choose him at 120 years of age. This can't. I know it's in vain for you to say that you can't even prove it, to argue. I'm not doing it for you. I've been doing all this for the entire Serbian public.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22328	Let's read article 13. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia: "Citizens are equal in rights and duties and have equal protection against state and other bodies regardless of race, gender, birth, language etc." Mrs. Angelka Dimitrijevic meets all the conditions regarding security, expertise, is the most professional and the best candidate we have ever had. Since there are no more entries on the lists, I ask if the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want the word? You used two calls. You've been over 10 minutes. Are any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, answering for a word? No, I don't. You used both calls. You've got three and a half minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22329	You, Mrs. Micic, are now responding to my arguments presented... Are you Micic or Micic? He says this one of yours is Micic. Is that your MP? Are you seriously correcting me here or was there something you wanted to play around with? What's the matter? You said all citizens are equal. I do not dispute this lady's right, her name is Angelka Dimitrijevic, to try to become Secretary of the National Assembly, nor will I sue her anywhere. I'm here criticizing your personnel policy from the point of view of the fact that you're choosing a woman who is 64 years old today as secretary of the National Assembly. It's a bad, wrong personnel policy. As far as the Constitution and the law are concerned, she is, of course, equal. She may be the president of the National Assembly in the next term, if she is an MP, when she is 120 years old. I even want her to experience those 120 years, but your staff policy is bad, because you deliberately choose as secretary of the National Assembly someone who can't stay in that office until the end of this second half of the National Assembly's mandate.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22330	Is there anyone else who hasn't used the right of Article 89? Is the Rules of Procedure reporting for a word? No, I don't. I'm finishing the search. The National Assembly will decide on a proposal to appoint the secretary of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the voting day, which will be set after the debate on all points of the agenda. We move to item 2 of the agenda: - PROPOSAL OF THE PUBLIC PROPOSAL OF PUBLIC PROGRAMME You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Radoslav Vesenović (whom the mandate of the National Assembly has ceased), so the amendments belong to the parliamentary group DOS - the Democratic Party of Serbia, which has appointed the National MP Predrag Stojanović, together Srdjan Petrovic, Dusan Ilic (communicated by the mandate of the MP), Slavoljub Matic and Arsen Kurjački, together Vlatko Sekulović, Rodoljub Šabić and Branko Pavlovic, together Nebojsa Jović, Rajko Baralić, Radojko Petric, Momir Radoičić, Marko Čulibrk, Ljubomir Mucic, Golub Rajić and Dragan Jovanovic, Radojko Petrovic, Milan Stankovic, together Dragan Marković, Miloš Luković, Miloš Lukić and Adam Urosevic. You have received amendments submitted by the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party Group: Bozidar Vucurović, Gordana Pop-Lazic, Tomislav Nikolic, Branislav Blažić, Natasa Jovanovic, Goran Cvetanović, Vitomir Plužarevic, Ljubomir Kragović, Veroljub Arsic, Slobodan Janjic, Stevan Kesejić, Miroljub Veljković, Bozidar Vujić, Srboljub Živanovic, Dragan Čolić, Milorad Mirčić, Lazar Marjanski, Aleksandar Vučić, Dragoljub Stamenković, Zlatan Jovanovic and Petar Jojić, who have writtenly withdrawn their amendments to the proposal of this law, and then the amendments to the same members of the proposed legislation and in the same text with the amendments submitted MP Vojislav Šese, the president of the Serbian party. Also, you have received amendments submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the government's opinion on amendments to the MPs. National MPs Vlatko Sekulović, Rodoljub Sabic and Branko Pavlovic have writtenly withdrawn their amendment 2 to Article 2(4). National MP Predrag Stojanovic, at a session of the Committee on Finance, on behalf of the DOS parliamentary group -- the Democratic Party of Serbia, withdrew amendments submitted by MP Radoslav Veselinovic to members 3, 38 and 46. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. At the meeting of the Committee on Finance, the opinion was singled out by MPs Zoran Novakovic and Dragan Tomic. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 90. Rules of Procedure, total time for a five-hour hearing. I would like MP groups to submit the lists of registered speakers to this agenda item. In accordance with Article 136(1) of the Treaty, I'm opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in principle. Does Mr Bozidar Djelic, Minister of Finance and Economy want the word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22331	The President-in-Office, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, today is my great honor to propose that I adopt a system law. I would say, from a number of laws that the government has, so to be clear, my ministry has proposed, with the Budgetary System Law, this law is most likely the one that is at the same level of system law that needs to regulate what has not been arranged so far and that is very important. It is important because if we talk about public procurement, we are talking about what was one of the main sources of corruption, bribery and unregulated relations in our country. We saw several examples a few days ago, when, in some accounts in Switzerland, the leaders of our health, at the moment of the greatest shortages, found it appropriate to make such contracts that they allow -- in all likelihood, there is a reasonable doubt and we will see in a further process what is in the middle of this case -- to adopt social resources. We have a dozen examples today, when new authorities take over from some health institutions, where it's clear. The arrival of the new team itself, the termination of existing consumer contracts, in many cases leads to a reduction in the price by 30 to 40%. We found it in public enterprises, and this job isn't finished until the end, a lot of harmful contracts. You can say that to our great misfortune, so-called. Building on these public procurements for narrow political purposes or for personal wealth has become almost a rule. It is hard to say how many billion dinars the Serbian taxpayer paid, and for something that was not foreseen in the law and in the budget. Surely that number is a few billion dinars. If we look at the report of the budget inspection from 1996 to 2000, that part of 1996-1999 will be delivered to you very quickly, when you consider the final bill for the 2000 budget, we see that in total, even about a billion German marks are illegal or unintendedly spent. It's not all public procurement, but a huge part of it is. So much for the proportions of some of the abuses that existed. Not just a violation of the law, illegal actions, it means the same thing to waste; because instead of buying better and more things, you buy less and worse, and some of those funds go further into some pockets where you should never come. Therefore, the first and principled objective of this law in Serbia today is to curb corruption in the area of public procurement. The second key objective of this law is of course to execute savings. Because even where it was under the law, there was not enough opening of a competition, so all those who could offer goods and services could not participate, because it often happened in a very narrow circle of some people who were always suppliers; even if it was spent without an installation, there was often no optimal price. That's why, for that other purpose or saving, I'd like to say a few figures. Today, public spending is somewhere around 50% of our gross national income. The state is the biggest buyer in this country. It's hard to say, because no one has a final record of the ratio of public procurement today, but let the assessment, with all those who will be subject to this law, including public enterprises, as well as "daughters" companies that have often been the place where most abuses took place, speaks of at least 50 billion dinars of annual purchases. I wouldn't bid on how much our savings could be when and if the law is consistently implemented, in case you vote on it. Experience in other countries shows that it's at least 10-15% or at least 10%; five billion dinars is about half of our gross national income, it's just as much as we could reduce taxes or use to buy additional drugs, to add machines and equipment to our hospitals, to further improve the conditions and work in our courts or schools. Therefore, after fighting corruption, the second key objective of this law is to save funds and reroute them in the right way. What does this law contain? In this law you have a desire and all the parts that will allow one place to be regulated, for a large number of legal persons, the procedure, the way and the consequences of the non-compliance of this law in public procurement proceedings. This law regulates the conditions, the way and the procedure for the procurement of goods and services and the admission of works, especially construction works that are a very important part. I want to give a few examples, they're not even transition countries. You saw, two or three months ago in the Netherlands, which is one of the least corrupt countries, according to all the surveys that are being conducted, there were two officials of the Ministry of Urban Affairs arrested for trying to place a tender that concerned some parts of the building. It's not just a condition, a way and a procedure, but a way of recording a contract. One of the best branches for a real game and fighting corruption is the public in the process. Therefore, it will be possible to record all these speeches. In one place we will find all the statistics that are necessary to monitor the outcome of large public procurements in our country. Thus, you, the government, the media and the public will be familiar with the results of public procurement. Everyone will be able to ask all the questions that are necessary and we will also be able to monitor the gradual improvement in the conditions the state receives when buying. This is where the state was seen in a pretty broad sense. It's not just about the ministries, it's about all direct, budget institutions, local self-government, which is very important. So the same archaic is applied everywhere, not only at the state level, but also at the level of local self-government, as well as public enterprises and all those enterprises over which the state, in one way or another, is a majority owner or has a decisive impact on business; so at least 50% of the action package is held. A wide section and a large amount of money, a very regulated process -- this law should provide for our country; a real, modern approach to this very important element of public finance. The public procurement procedure set up here contains four main principles. The first principle is economic and efficiency in the process. Of course, when this goes to vote and you vote, as I hope, many will say that this is much more complicated now, that it was much easier before. Look at the surprises, in all the countries, and we're one of the last countries in Europe that doesn't have one such law, everyone complains that the state is a cepidlaka. Everyone complains that the state is like a purchaser of bureaucrats; look at surprises, they're always there; they're always participating on these public procurements, because the state is always in principle the biggest customer, and it has regular needs, and so today and in our country, it's regular and good payers. That's why when we say, economics and efficiency, we want to establish the principle of the country being a tough negotiator, which has one lot, and it needs to be, a complicated but complete procedure in the purchases it conducts. It's her right. It's the right thing to do, first of all, the taxpayers whose will she's carrying out. Not only that, it is the right because the biggest buyer and the market must show that it serves as an example for other buyers in companies, for those who do not belong to the section of this law, as public procurement is carried out. The second is the principle of competition. No surprises. I'd like to say a few words in advance about what was the subject of some amendments. The question arises whether this should go "to the end" and whether to some extent provide a more favourable situation for our domestic bidders. I just want to say that if we look at the legislation that exists today in Europe -- what we're looking for, and also the terms of some of the loans we're getting, that's where we look for the principle of non-discrimination of some of the bidders. Does this mean that our bidders and our economy in a situation like today don't have a chance? Absolutely not. I just want to make an example, because there was a lot of noise about it. Examples are the public procurement of buses conducted by the city of Belgrade a few months ago, when it was said that, of course, whoever credited it did it to secure a job for a foreign company. What have we been saying? Our Icarbus won because he had the best offer and the best conditions, and the price isn't all. We have in this law, as you can see, and there's a point very precise, and other criteria that can make it possible. We don't think it's celibate to exclude large parts of purchases from this law, as some would have wanted, nor is it all the same to determine who has any advantage in this law, because that would violate a basic principle of equality in competition. Certainly, in the case of real life, when public procurement itself is being called, considering that in many of our public enterprises, in many parts of our economy, parts of our equipment and many of what are of domestic production, it is obvious that our domestic producers have such an advantage. Here, as in all countries, it is not all-integrated to install discrimination at the illegal level, but because by nature our businesses are the main suppliers to those who will buy, it is important to prepare themselves for that competition. I'm sure they'll win a lot of cases. The third principle is transparency. Of course, when it is said that money is intended for public procurement in one domain, it must be in that domain. They can't be renamed and what should have been the procurement for one part, to be transported to another part. Finally, we have the principle of equality of the bidder, I've already talked about it. There were ideas in the andmans that some social class or types of bidders were privileged. This experience shows that good intentions are very easy to twist, to bypass, and if this organization or this type of people has an advantage, it's very easy to bypass, especially in our country, so it wouldn't have any effect, and it would violate the principle of equality with the bidder. This law creates a new institution. It's the administration that's going to deal with public procurement. Let me explain: in no case should she become a super buyer who buys on behalf of everyone, because it would be too bureaucratic and it would not be celery; nor would she be close enough to action and never have that knowledge that is necessary for public procurement to take place. However, this body, the special organisation, will have the opportunity to bring the procedures closer, to prepare all the sublegal acts necessary for the implementation of this law. Not only that, it will carry out the record I spoke about earlier and prepare statistics for the government and parliament, which will be crucial to see whether this law is being consistently and effectively implemented. Besides, in no way should it be neglected, she has another role to play, which is training for those who will soon become professional customers with us. In all major companies, something good with us, there are already such services. The state is the only one where, in a large number of cases, and even in public enterprises, there are no specialised public procurement services. They will, I'm sure, very strongly contribute to the fact that the issue of public procurement is always present in our public, that it is not under the pressure of a media, of a question, of something, but of the principle that the exception is not to talk about a tender or some public procurement, but rather to know in principle what is going on and how this money is being spent from the State. I don't want to get into some technical aspects of this law, I'm sure I'll have opportunities during the debate: how to implement, why, what are the levels of censorship, why? I would just like to conclude that this law is of systemic importance, because in itself it will do much better for this key matter. It is certain that he himself will not lead to perfection and full honesty in this business. Of course a lot of other things are needed. We see that there are countries where people have had similar laws for decades and where it does happen, even if there is a tender, even if there is a public procurement, that some bidders, some of them, try to make arrangements, then they take turns getting some markets, just as agreed. This means that, with this law, we will need to strengthen what is involved in economic crime, in terms of cartelisation or agreement. In the government of the Republic of Serbia there is also an additional legal provision concerning the anti-monopol provisions and the suppression of such phenomena. Of course, even the best laws can be twisted. I'm sure the law itself will have a great effect and we expect significant savings, but we're going to have to fill not only in the anti-monopoly part of our legislation, but we're going to have to, if and when we get proof that some of them have done something illegal, we're going to have a much more effective prosecution and judiciary, which they're going to do. I wouldn't want to reopen the story that's being told now, because then it would look like some kind of ball transfer, but it's not celery. It is certain that if something illegal is found, those who have wronged the law must be much faster and much more effective in bringing them in, arrested, and paid the penalty that has been passed by law. That concludes this opening statement. To recap, this law is crucial. Personally, I am very proud that Serbia is only after a year and a half since the start of the reform, able to propose and possibly pass such a law. In other countries, it lasted four to five years. We have in this law many provisions already applied here and there, but in this way we will have one homogeneous principle that will be the same for everyone everywhere the state money is spent. The two objectives are: to combat corruption and save, through these provisions, which are procedural character; and there are a lot of technical things in this law; plus building this new institution -- public procurement administrations. I'm sure we'll take a big step forward for our country and for our public finances.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22332	I'm asking if they want the word of the committee's informants. On behalf of the Finance Committee, MP Nenad Bogdanovic? No, I don't. The Legislative Committee, MP Pajtic? No, I don't. ) Does National MP Dragan Tomic, who issued an opinion at the session of the Finance Committee, want a word? He's not present. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word is by MP Borislav Pelevic, an authorised representative of the Soviet Union for this part of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22333	Dear citizens of Serbia, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Minister, of course it is necessary to pass a law on public procurement, but there are many reasons why the Soviet Union will not vote in favour of this law, and this will be discussed by the MPs of the Soviet Union, particularly Mr. Milos Lukic and the other MPs through the amendments we have submitted to this law to lead to adoption. I appreciate Mr. Secretary talking about the abuses of public procurement in the past period. Of course, all those who have committed public procurement crimes should be subject to the law and punished. I ask Mr. Minister - how long will he talk about the past tense? It's been almost two years since you've been in power. Let's stop talking about what happened once, because it's very clear to the people. Let's talk about what's now and what's supposed to be. This is what interests the citizens of Serbia, not constantly calling for the past and constantly pulling out for the past period. I repeat, we are to punish all who have misused their rights. Please, let's talk a little bit about those who have misused their rights from October 5th to this day. You haven't said a word about the public procurements that have been made since the DOS came to power. I will give only one example in principle, which is very current -- procurement for police, for Serbia's MUP. What'd you buy the pejoe for, how many pejoa you bought and why didn't you buy the south florida, say, and put it on the feet of the Kraguing flag? Who are you chasing with a fast car, "pejo" through Serbia's cities? Which murderer or kidnapper did your Police Minister Dusan Mihajlovic find? Why didn't you lay the foundations of the Kragujeva flag and buy from it a florida which is and what a good car for our police. Next, you know very well that these days, police officers have been given new uniforms. By the way, they look nice, but the cops complain they're very uncomfortable and very bad. What hundreds of cops tell us a day is that they don't need uniforms. They need higher wages, gentlemen. They need apartments. Of the 35,000 employees in Serbia's MUP 7,100 police officers, 14,000 have an inadequately resolved housing issue, live in laundry rooms, collective accommodations, garages, etc. Don't forget -- cops are our heroes, they've been practically the people who've been on defense of our territories, Serbian countries and Serbia in Kosovo and Metohija for the past 12 years. So they don't need uniforms, they need apartments, bigger salaries, better living conditions. So, I only mentioned one segment of public procurement while you're in power, and of course you don't want to talk about it because you know that there were neither public tenders nor anyone knew how the "pejoi" were bought, how much it was bought, how the uniforms were bought. Let me just remind you of that affair about razors and zip lighters that were supposed to be bought for the police, about gas masks and everything else, and that's what the press discovered, and that's why the purchase was prevented. There's something you should say about that, Mr. Minister. All these are reasons why the Serbian Unity Party will not support this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22334	Do any of the presidents of the parliamentary groups want a word? Please, the word is by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the DOS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22335	Mrs. Komic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, despite everything, the DOS parliamentary group insists on adopting this law; given all that we have done so far in this House, so around 70 legislative projects and almost 130 decisions we have made, I think this is one of the most important laws we are discussing. It's not just a system law, it's a law that will allow us to look everyone in the eye without any shame and say why we're different. None of the facts my predecessor made, criticizing us, are true. Everything the MUP did was through a tender, so through public ads that were published in the means of information and "the Official List", ads where everyone could participate and win the best. The criticism that is based on this is why I find it inappropriate and certainly cannot be the arguments that can be seen as obstacles to the adoption of this law. Because, after 60 years of spending public money on the scene, the authorities who want to introduce rules, regulations that commit, above all, to her, because these laws that we, as a government, are obliged to respect and that will certainly, through their application, make it possible to save a lot of money. The sum of a billion German marks is mentioned. Only through budgetary control has it been established that there has been a non-intentional outflow of funds in 1996-1999, hundreds of thousands of Swiss francs, hundreds of thousands of dollars in accounts abroad of people who ran republican funds and people who participated in procurement operations, any drugs, any medical equipment, during which our society failed. So when we talk about the law on public procurement, we are talking about the need to introduce order into a system that has been unregulated for 60 years. We're talking about an initiative that came from a government that clearly disproves all the criticisms addressed to her. We are determined to fight corruption and crime, and we believe that if we adopt the law on public procurement and put our police in a "pejo" today, we will make it a better uniform and a better apartment tomorrow. But what's put forward as a criticism of everything we've done so far is actually the cheapest demagogy. Have someone else sit in the south-florid and somebody else take a uniform from a ten-year-old so they can feel proud and capable of doing their job. Every cop will get what he deserves, so we can get results from them. You can't criticize them for ineffectiveness, and you can't go out and give them a chance to do anything concrete. So the law on public procurement is the law behind which we stand entirely. It's that big step forward, it's a brave step, because for the past 60 years, no government has decided to bring the public into the procurement system, introduce a transparent process, introduce competition and competition. This is a law that is fully in the function of citizens. I'll tell you one example: the inspections that entered the clinic center found that one hospital bed was paid 70,000 marks. I don't know if there's a bed in the world that costs 70,000 marks, but hospitally, as it is in the Clinical Centre of Serbia, it certainly doesn't exist. I'm not sure that bed was paid through the process set out in this law, that someone published an ad in the "Official Messenger" or in some public note, that bed manufacturers were competing in that tender and that it was the best one to win. I think it was certainly an abuse that you can't find today in what we're doing. So this law is effective because it allows citizens to gain power and the functioning process of a government that is significantly different and, among other things, cheaper. The economy is good because monopolies are being abolished, cartels are being torn down, party agreements and similarities are no longer being agreed, but the principle of competition and games are being introduced in which everyone, at least in the beginning, is equal. And finally, this is a great success for us as representatives of the government, which, by passing this law, we certainly represent ourselves as different than our predecessors were. No public procurement will be made any more public procurement to be settled in the cabinet. No cargo of coal will be a load that can be sold in one cabinet. The law today refers to the Republic of Serbia, and tomorrow it will refer to all federal institutions, but at the same time this law will not amnesty anyone, but through the proposition established by this law we will very securely review the way in which the money of our citizens was spent in the previous period. Not only until October 5th, but also after October 5th. If someone made a mistake between us, make sure we put out a bill for something like that, because we're different from the way you represent us here. So when we talk about the law on public procurement, I think we can look for examples in what is a transition process and efficiency in the countries that have started the process. You won't find the land that passed the public procurement law after a year. Since 1990, when the transition began, so far you will find neither the country nor the government that passed the law on public procurement, the law on the budgetary system and through the tax administration law fully disciplined the financial spending sector and budget availability. I think it is commendable both for Mr Djelic and for us as a parliamentary majority who asks him for something like that and strongly supports it. In the categorization you will find very clear criteria which accurately determine the limits of which tenders must be conducted. It would be bad to neglect the fact that public procurement, i.e. the application of public procurement laws, is mandatory in all those procurements that are larger than 350,000 dinars, so more than 5,000 euros. When we think about, let's say, in the Republic Health Insurance Fund, about the fact that we inherited a debt of two billion marks, and in this regard, no legislative regulation that established the rules of availability for that money, then you'll see that these are huge anomalies; I think this is also an opportunity for the opposition to stand behind this law and in such a way, through a specific and very clear gesture, to present itself differently today than it was yesterday when it was power. Those who are against this law support those shameful individuals of our society and those unpleasant facts we face daily. They also support the director of the Oncological Institute who has obtained funds in a Swiss bank account through the commission process and drug use, in a way that is certainly unacceptable for every reasonable man, regardless of the political option that follows. Those who support this state as it is now support the director of the Republic Health Fund, which has acquired millions abroad, so today it is being built on by the then Prime Minister. This is certainly a "sacred letter" for politicians. From the moment this law is passed, we stand behind it with calm hearts. There's no argument that this kind of thing can be challenged. There are many amendments, there will be plenty of opportunities to talk about it, but I think this is certainly a great service for the citizens, as well as that we can feel proud of the law that we are going to adopt today in this assembly, because it is a law that in itself takes a shadow of doubt from us, even in situations where we find ourselves unfairly suspected.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22336	Do any of the representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? He has the word National MP Borislav Pelevic, representative of the SSJ parliamentary group (a replica to the presentation of MP Cedomir Jovanovic, on the basis of wrong interpretation).
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22337	Dear People's MPs, I don't know why Mr. Jovanovic was replicating me. I asked the Minister of Finance. It is clear to me that Mr Cedomir Jovanovic is, in most cases, a spokesman for the Serbian government, but it also degrades the minister himself, who has been asked certain questions. But it doesn't matter. You've completely misread me, Mr. Jovanovic. You said it was all true what I said. Everyone knows that the pejoi are bought, we all see them on the streets, everyone knows that uniforms are bought, we see them on the streets. Why, since you mentioned health care, you didn't buy a health gauze, so why didn't you buy sheets, pillowcases, why didn't you buy injection needles? You know the health situation well. Believe me, I repeat, the police are not thrilled with the new uniforms and are not thrilled with the new "pejos". You'd better buy a florida, a Jugoflorida from the flag, to place the flag on your feet in Kragujevac, and no one calls that people "the valleys of hunger" anymore. That's what I'm talking about, and you're talking to me about something that we absolutely disagree with. You can't convince me this law is good. If the government accepts all the amendments to the Soviet Union, maybe we'll vote for this bill. Accept the amendments and we'll vote. What's really going on -- you're making a law that's totally collapsing with the Serbia-Montenegro relationship re-arrangement agreement, because it's treated differently in two different members. The other MPs of the Soviet Union will talk about it later, but I want to tell you that everything I said is true and it is not the same, Mr Jovanovic, if the tender is published in the Official List (who is still reading the Official Journal). Or in the public record, in "News", "Blah", "Politics", in everything else. And what you said was that the tender was published in the Official List, it's a little who knows and little who can read it unless it's previously notified. I'm just saying, as a new authority, you owe this people and Parliament an account for what you're doing, as you ask the previous government to lay down accounts for what it did before. And don't just say that you're all in the new government saint, because the saints are gone. We are in favour of fighting corruption, crime, against everything called abuse of position, and that is why we were the only one who voted in favour of the Extraprofit Act; but because you're misapplying it and taxing the good Serbian hosts, and you're taking your Serbian Deputy Prime Minister off the list, "Lutru" is already a matter of corruption, Mr Jovanovic. That's what this is about. Of those 8 billion promised by the minister at the beginning, with 750,000 marks, only 115,000 were charged. Which is why you took so many companies off the list, which is why you didn't tax that law on oil smugglers, tobacco, alcohol and everything that was excise goods; only 5-6 people, who are real Serbian entrepreneurs, were attacked and they paid the tax. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22338	The word is by MP Cedomir Jovanovic (second call).
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22339	Dear Mrs. Comic, the Honorable Presidency, Mr. Pelevic, I admit that it would be easier for us to talk to if I knew who I was talking to -- do I talk to the colonel, the professor, the economics master, the politician, who I'm talking to -- the person who's willing to listen to or the person who's going out for the assembly pay phone to affirm her position in the election campaign through the demagogue phrases? I made it very clear that the process of public procurement in the Serbian Republic's MUP ran through tenders published in public ballots and in the official messenger. Whether you want to accept it or not, it's your personal matter, but these are the facts. I made it very clear that the best offer was an offer accepted by the MUP of the Republic of Serbia. I made it very clear that our police deserve this "pejo" and the highest quality uniform, and the apartment. But this is a poor country, this is a country where cops were killed by yesterday, a country where the government wasn't prepared to respect them and respect them in such moments. Today, the Ministry of Interior is respected, has a lot of problems, leads a hard fight with organised crime, has our support and must not be wrong, but does not deserve criticism in situations where there are no arguments to do so. And many others don't have apartments: wartime military disableds, professors, factory workers. This is an unsettled country, this is a country that has failed for 50 years; 95% of young people under 30 have no settled housing issue, 98% have no permanent employment and resolved social security. In a year and a half, we've done a lot of things, including the MUP. This is a law that takes a step further, which allows these irregularities, which eventually exist, to be hitched and re-scanned. This is not DOS law, this is a law that DOS supports and that we want all those who certainly regard themselves as responsible politicians. And the fact that someone thinks the flag factory will function better if they buy the floride in it -- it won't, because that's how the government of Mirko Marjanovic acted, so it failed. The flag will function well as soon as it has a professional workforce, a safe market, an environment in which it can work normally, when it is not destroyed and bombed, as it is not today. The flag restructuring process has begun, it is going well; the vehicles are being used, so is the MUP; among other things, through personal examples, politicians are running a campaign that supports the flag. You have a minister who bought a car in that factory. I believe that everything that has been said as a criticism is something that cannot stop the application or adoption of this law, because the law on public procurement is the strongest blow to those forces that do not want to accept that Serbia since 5 October is a democratic society, in which general rules are ruled, equal for any citizen or any other participant in the competition. So, after this law, we're going to be able to look everyone in the eye and say, anything more than 300,000 dinars, as budget funds, is being spent in accordance with the rules, the propositions that we didn't invent, that apply in all the organized societies of the world whose we are today an equal part. The law on public procurement has our absolute support. I suggest you support that, too, because that's how you're going to introduce yourself differently than you were until yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22340	The word has a minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22341	Just a few words, as regards the flag -- the government of the Republic of Serbia has shown for the past year that it has implemented a true programme for the real recovery of the flag and respects its products for what they can be respected for. From the passenger vehicles of our inspection, from the Public Revenue Administration, through a market inspection, they buy exclusively a flag. There's been a lot of talk in the last time that only a flag was bought. But that's just not true, the least you could do is buy a flag. It's total demagogue to think they can do with one of the "florids", like today, which is a fact, chasing jeeps or BMWs. We have to have a vehicle that can do the job. And as for the MUP tender, I was extremely proud when we saw that it came to the front page of public reports about what kind of lighter was purchased, and only a year or two earlier was spoken with awe, there was no need to talk about where the money came from, who takes it, what secret accounts, from what was customs, it goes for some purposes that no one predicted? How long has this trip been broken in just 15 months! And today the next logical step is the adoption of this law. There's a lot of technical stuff here. I don't see anyone who should be against this law today, because this law is directed against Uskokovic who, instead of providing electricity to people, has acquired thirty apartments and villas for them. It is aimed at those who acquire coal by who knows what conditions and sell Yugoslavia's armies, where only tomorrow the right conditions will come from, to see how it was bought. This law will apply tomorrow, if we go, as we will, to a new arrangement of relations between Serbia and Montenegro; this law is against those who would like to agree in their cabinet and open an account in Liechtenstein or Switzerland. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22342	There is a word from MP Borislav Pelevic, representative of the SSS parliamentary group. - Second call. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22343	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is absolutely no answer to any of my questions, but I will not insist on that. Neither did Mr. Jovanovic nor Mr. Djelic; I just want to thank Mr. Jovanovic for all the titles he has listed, which I have; he has made a mistake in one, but I will not correct you. You talk to Jovanovic, first of all to the MP and I talk to you like I'm talking to my dear colleague, and I'm just looking at you like that. We can be political inexperiences, but that's no reason to be political enemies, to speak in such an ugly way about me about the MPs of the Soviet Union, but that's your thing, that's your problem. We will treat all the emissaries of any political group with courtesy and respect, because we all view you as our dear colleagues who have one common goal of taking this country on the right path. We don't think it's you, but it's our political opinion that's different from yours, but let us also share the people who voted for us and who will vote for us, think differently than you think. So, with a lot of respect, I'm saying this, and I'm never going to let myself say anything ugly to you, not me, not anyone from the Soviet Union. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22344	The right to reply, MP Cedomir Jovanovic; a replica to the presentation of the MP Borislav Pelevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22345	Mrs. Komic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Pelevic, I am prepared to apologize to you if I have offended you, but I only mentioned your titles and titles. Eventually, if it's something offensive, I don't consider myself responsible for it. I remember you as a colonel, then you didn't perform as a master of economics, you became something later, and I remember you as a professor. I don't know what title I was wrong in, and if I was wrong somewhere, I apologize and it wasn't my intention to insult you. I just didn't know who I was talking to, because it didn't make sense to me that a colonel didn't understand the law on public procurement, but it seems illogical that the law on public procurement didn't understand the Master of Economy. That's all it's about. So, when you go out for the assembly pay phone, if you come out of the position of the Master of Economics, then you have no arguments to challenge the law on public procurement, and if you come out as a colonel, then you have no arguments to challenge this state's concerns about the police. (Borislav Pelevic, from the post: General! If you're a general, then I apologize to you, it's really an insult. When you honor the title of colonel one man instead of the title of general, you unjustly disrespected him, and I apologize for that. So, no intention of humiliating you, of insulting your voters, on the contrary, is my desire to help you. (Borislav Pelevic, from the place: Don't, please! ) As a national MP, you need help, and as Borislav Pelevic, certainly not, nor would I do so. When we talk about a public tender, then we talk about the desire of this authority to seduce order in the process of spending public money. When we talk about the period that has elapsed from our coming to power to the application of this law, we talk about the shortest period there is compared to countries in transition and we talk about the period when we respected the rules set out in this law even though they were not legally defined. So, no public procurement went through cabinet arrangements, through eye-to-eye dealing; and tomorrow you'll talk about us as we talk about our predecessors today. An example of the police getting "pejoe" isn't something we're ashamed of. We want them to get the best, and tomorrow they can use it the best way, not to be respected today for how many murders they've solved, but to drive naked and barefoot into the street. And finally, these apartments: I told you what a housing situation is in our country -- in such difficult circumstances 650 MUP workers will get apartments because this country has allocated funds for it, not for 7,000 because we don't have it; today we don't have it, it may be in a year, two or five, and we believe it will; not just for the police and the military, but for professors at the university, assistants, we believe that there will be housing loans that citizenship will be able to use because it's a principle that works in the normal world, and Serbia must be a normal state. In order to be a normal state, it must be run by people we know who they are; whether they are colonels, generals, masters of economy or something fourth.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22346	Three minutes. Do any of the other authorised representatives or presidents want a word? Yeah. ) The word is attended by MP Rajko Baralic, authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22347	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mrs. Comic, Mr. Minister, respected journalists, went to Mr. Jovanovic, but given the knowledge he showed from the police area, I think he's a colonel himself. He said Mr. Jovanovic here that the police couldn't in "chiani" uniforms chase criminals, and the last officers who wore a uniform from which they were members of the KNOJ until 1948, and the uniform in the police was renewed in 1996, so not for 10 years.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22348	National MP, you will either present yourself as a colonel or return to the subject of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22349	Mrs. Komic, I am a member of the Committee on the Security of this Assembly and I have reports delivered by your minister and, in this respect, I interpret what the reports say. I'm not a colonel, I have a very interesting act in a very interesting VES, but it's not a problem for you. As for the money that will be in a safe place and that after the adoption of this law on public procurement - they will, of course, be in a safe place, because a number of people will not receive pensions at all, and those who are fortunate to receive them, half of them, will today go for an increase in the price of electricity, so that the money will indeed be in a safe place, will not be with the citizens and we fully agree on that. You say you can look us in the eye, and I think I've heard this before, but I don't know how I know it. You say in the past, that the police were killed, unfortunately that's true, only in this time for which you have the responsibility to execute the same authorities as those police generals and other people, and we have no answer to the question of who committed those murders. As for the proposed law, SPS MPs will accept the risk that Mr Jovanovic tells them they have no idea about the economy, so that he will not vote for it, but I will try several sentences to say why SPS MPs will not vote for the proposed Public Procurement Act. There's a drop in the O.R. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22350	I ask the People's Messengers not to earn and not to interfere with the speaker and to comply with provisions 99. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22351	Every time DOS MPs earn, I have reliable proof that I'm doing my job well. On 27 December 2001, the government adopted a proposal for a law on public procurement. In the assembly procedure, this law has been in place since 31 December 2001, and today it is 6 months from that deadline. If the government really had the ambition to pass one of the most important laws, as Mr Djelic, who is a systemic and reform character, which is anti-corruption, had mechanisms, I mean, first of all, an emergency procedure and some other business opportunities, to find this law in the process before. Recent amendments and additions to the Law and the Budgetary System Act have been adopted. A vault institution was established there, and I would say that this law is in some sense compatible with it and that it brings Serbia's citizens, first of all, to a very delicate position in terms of competition with foreign bidders and suppliers; I will say something about this here. Members of the Socialist Party of Serbia have proposed 10 amendments; the government has adopted two, and for all other competent committees they have given a green light, in the sense that the amendments are legally possible. In this way, I am plowing with those who fill out the cards of the Socialist Party of Serbia MPs, as if they were in some agricultural community, that MPs are doing their job both past the assembly benches and past the working time, when this parliament is in session, and you, of course, are meeting with the Rules of Procedure, in the way you think you should, regulate and force us in front of Serbian citizens to appear here as students at a certain time. I would like to inform you and the citizens of Serbia that MPs of the Socialist Party of Serbia are getting paid from the taxes of those voters who voted for them and that we are very motivated to do exactly what we are doing. Since the government gave its opinion six months ago on the law on public procurement, I have two questions here today for all of you, for the minister. Why is it that some ministries, when they were familiar with the principles contained in the bill, did not adhere to it during these six months, but are quite the opposite of what was proposed here on various procurements, and only two of them I will single out: The Ministry of the Interior of the Republic of Serbia has acquired protective masks for police officers from a Dutch supplier, although they are two and a half times more expensive than the "Tralian" even though they are twice as unqualityd as "Tralalal"; it is known that Traal's protective masks are used by soldiers and police officers of the United States, Israel, Germany, and that the components of these masks are also used by members of some other police and army in the world. Why did the Ministry of Energy decide to choose the most favourable supplier of crude oil by 30 June 2003? Why didn't it wait for this law to be passed, then apply what it promotes here as transparent, public, anti-corruption, systemic and reformal, according to the provisions of this law. Domestic manufacturers and service providers will remain completely unprotected from foreign suppliers and providers. No amendment has been accepted that domestic producers and bidders have an advantage under the same conditions, even in that case. You're saying we're a country that's only a year and a half since the arrival of so-called. The new democratic authorities at the head of this country propose and adopt such a law, while others like Slovenia have waited nine years for it; of course they have waited, because, among other things, they have protected domestic production. We know that when this law is adopted by all who have an interest in selling goods or services in this country, and if they can offer for one dollar lower, that job can be obtained, only then the question of what really happens to our economy and the people who are employed in it is asked. The Public Procurement Administration is being formed. Mr. Djelic said it wasn't a great customer. I just think it is a great customer and that the finance minister, regardless of what person it is, will be the supervisor of that super buyer; and that the finance minister has practically the overall financial potential of this country in a way that is harmful to Serbia's economy and the interests of Serbian citizens. You say the law is anti-corruption. It is possible that in certain areas the law can prevent minor phenomena in this area, but it opens the door for large fees from multinational companies, because through the Public Procurement Administration from one place, in a way that is not in the interest of our country and our citizens, it can, by means of a restrictive or by means of free guessing procedure, because there are such principles, other than the public procedure, make decisions that will focus huge financial resources on, above all, foreign partners and foreign suppliers. With a number of government agencies, which have been introduced in a completely non-institutional way into political practice in Serbia, we now have the Public Procurement Authority, which will be under the direct authority of the Serbian Government, or the finance minister, leaving no possibility for any of the ministers to make decisions for the funds used for procurement in the ministry. We believe that this law will not give what you have set as a goal here, but that we will face the real consequences of a reckless law, which in some sense will worsen the state of domestic producers and service providers.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22352	Do any of the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. ) We move on to a debate on the lists of registered speakers. The first to be reported for debate is MP Marin Kresic, followed by MP Milos Lukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22353	Dear Presidency and colleagues, although there is little reason for DOS MPs to spend time on an affirmative relationship with this law, I think it is clear to all of us, I simply couldn't help but express my enthusiasm with a small segment of this law, from the angle of the profession that I normally do. You know, there's a lot of community presidents around here, people from all over Serbia, as our townships look like: every townhouse has been destroyed by some department store in the city center; the towns are relatively, like the old historical heritage, often bitten and destroyed; you have a lot of urban plans with which you don't know what to do. I've been working on this profession for a quarter of a century and I've had the joy and satisfaction of working with people, one of whom won the most first prizes in competitions in the former and present Yugoslavia; unfortunately, he lives and works in the Netherlands now. The second on that ranking list, also my dear colleague, by the number of awards he has received now lives and works in the UK. I'm here somewhere; I'm not at the top of that list, with a lot of rewards, but I have more rewards than I managed to get jobs, either as a professional, either as a CEO of a company that was on the market. As a result, this law for me has one longer-term effect that will be extremely good through a certain number of years. There will be no more urbanism, architecture, design, construction on the basis of the boulevard economy, agreement on subsequent price reductions, fees; because, in fact, perhaps the legislator wanted it; I see this special consequence, it is also about the state good and the quality that will wait for us in the next period. That's where I'm more than happy about this law, which we've been waiting for half a century.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22354	The word has a folk MP Milos Lukic, followed by MP Dragan Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22355	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when it comes to the law on public procurement, surely none of us are against this law being passed. Given the fact that over 50% of gross domestic products are covered by public procurement, it is certain that this area should be regulated. I think it is wrong to interpret the statement of the president of our party, that we do not want this law - the president said that we will vote against, unless our amendments are accepted that are extremely correct, and they refer exclusively to matter, without any other note; so, if they are accepted, we are prepared to support this law. I'll make some principled remarks. The first refers to the very beginning of this law, Article 1, which says that, among other things, the Public Procurement Administration is being educated. The question immediately arises: how is this administration educated, who will be the head of this administration, what is its structure, etc? It's not said, it's educated by the government, it's educated by this congregation; practically, it turns out that this is the very law that educates this administration. Technically, we should've had all the other information on the administration right away. Members of 18th and 19th list what this is about, but they do not answer this question! In Article 19, eventually, the report on the work of the Administration is said to be submitted to the government once a year. It's an extremely long period. We believe that the Government should be informed of the work of the Administration quarterly, and this assembly once a year. I don't think it would bother anyone, and it would contribute to this story that the minister and the proposings are making here, which is that it's about public, transparency, etc. If so, why should this congregation not be informed of the work of the Authority at all? When it comes to the time limit for keeping documentation - it is normal that if it is such a significant matter, public procurement, that the time limit should be longer than for other areas of the economy. We think the deadline really needs to be longer than three, to be five years. We have an interesting member, and that's a 17-year-old who's talking about anti-corruption rules. We of the Soviet Union have suggested that this member be deleted, not because we want public procurement to be done without sanctions, but on the contrary, which we want public procurement to be carried out under all sanctions of the criminal law of this country. What's this about? If you say we're introducing anti-corruption rules and sanctions are to inform the bidder that he offered bribes, some services or money, it's not a sanction. The people need to know, because it specifically says in Article 17, sanctions are to inform you that you have noticed that someone has tried corruption. It's pure criminal-legal matter, and in this area it needs to be qualified again, given the importance and the moment in which this country is located. The question of three types of procedure: open, restrictive and guessing procedures also, we consider it excessive and if we already have rules for an open procurement procedure, we believe that this restrictive and guessing procedure can only cause suspicion, doubt, and be the subject of saying that something is wrong. As soon as something doesn't go regularly, it causes suspicion. We must recognise that such a situation is currently in the state and that such relations are among political parties; that each move is measured multiplely, and most often unwittingly. Also, one principled remark, which refers to the very expression of public procurement of goods and services -- we have that expression and that argument in Article 31 of this Law. However, the position of our parliamentary group is that it is unacceptable. We believe that in the whole text, the term "procurement of services" should be thrown out and that it should be reshaped in a similar formulation in Article 2(2), which makes it quite correct. It is said that it refers to the delivery of goods, the execution of works, the provision of services or a public competition for drafts. It's perfectly acceptable and quite correct, because whoever I've been talking to is no one's clear expression - the purchase of services. The explanation for refusing such an amendment was also not convincing enough. When it comes to conditions for participation in the competition, we believe that they need a little review, perhaps to correct them, because for most social and state-owned companies these conditions will be difficult to accept. The possibility arises, using one of those five-six criteria, that certain companies be discriminated against for purely banal reasons, and that they actually meet all other conditions to participate in the competition. I would also like to mention that in preparation for adoption, as well as in several places in this law, we have an increased, over-emphasised role of the finance minister. It is true that the finance minister has the resources, but it is not true that the finance minister has all the funds in this country, i.e. all the funds representing public procurement. I think the minister, as a reasonable man, should transfer part of that responsibility to the other ministers, to the government, to the ministries. Since this is a very diverse matter, it is about negotiating infrastructure operations; construction, electricity business, etc., at least other ministers should be consulted. Our proposal is for the relevant ministries to participate in establishing certain criteria, in making rules and in realising everything I've talked about. I think the minister would be easier, and the rest of the ministries would feel respected and would do their job. I spoke to one of the ministers, when I mentioned this, I got an answer -- so the finance minister is correct and he's going to consult us. That's not enough. The finance minister doesn't always have to be Bozidar Djelic, someone who won't consult anyone will come, so it will cause a completely different effect and perhaps a short period of government of such a minister can cost the country a lot. We also mentioned Serbia-Montenegro's relations. Treatment of companies from Montenegro in this law is two ways; in Article 46, we treat Montenegro and Montenegro firms as well as all other companies abroad, not to quote that member, but all of you have had the opportunity to see it; and in the 96th part of Montenegro companies have the practical treatment of domestic companies -- it is a dualism that extends through other members; this should be defined very precisely. You yourself know that Montenegro's firm will be very easy to provide you with confirmation that it has settled all obligations towards the state, and Serbia's firm may not be able to provide confirmation that it has settled, say, a tax or a contribution to a minimum amount and will lose its job. There is no such possibility, I firmly say, that and the Ministry of Finance know very well, to see if the Montenegrin firm paid the taxes to its state, after all. So, again, we have the possibility that our companies are losing their jobs for some of the banal reasons. It's not naive at all, and it needs to be taken care of. One serious problem with this law is that the text is too bulky and again in consultation with many respected colleagues we have come to the conclusion that it will be very difficult to apply. A law that has 151 members, most of whom have a page, a page and a half, with many, many details, poses a danger of being interpreted in different ways. This desire to get too normistic about it, to make it all right, can cause a completely opposite effect. This is one well-intentioned remark. You don't have to accept it, normally, because you have your own attitude about it. I'm just going to read article 62 that says, "The time limit for submitting offers must be the time needed to prepare the right offer." Then, the next position says, "If an extensive competitive documentation is required to prepare an offer", then all of this is explained again, for no reason whatsoever. So we've got a clear standard, and then we're divorcing it. It's with most members of this law. I would like to mention another issue of limit values in the previous discussion, in previous notification, then in the work for water, energy, telecommunications, traffic, etc. These are all the figures that are extremely high for our citizens. We thought that this line should go down, that it would be those numbers that are more real; let's say, instead of 50 million to be 30, instead of 300 to be 200, etc. When it comes to keeping records, it's similar to the previous attitude, that we have a four-year period. We believe that public procurement is very important for this country and, given the extent of the documentation and amounts covered, it is not disputed to keep this documentation longer, for all of the above reasons. Also, one senseless attitude in publishing in the "Official Messenger"; when the contract is concluded, it is announced in 14 days. There's no reason, there's nothing more controversial, why in this case it would be 14, instead of eight days, which is common. We also think that criminal policy is funny and that in this law it raises a question of everything that the Proposer has spoken of. In fact, we have provided sanctions for such a serious area within the limits of the Violents Act. We must agree that this law has nothing to do with the Law of Infractions. It's a special law. I have business offences that are at the border - 400,000 etc. This law is possible, in any case, to provide for greater sanctions. In fact, we should establish a stronger link between the application of this law to criminal and legal sanctions that treat all other behaviours in the economy. So, the SS has made these remarks in principle. There's a lot of them. The text is large. It's possible to correct a lot. For these reasons, unless our amendments are accepted, we will not vote for this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22356	The word is made by MP Dragan Pavlovic, followed by MP Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22357	Ladies and gentlemen, we are making for the first time in our country a law that regulates this area - public spending took place very spontaneously, without proper regulations or in a network of different regulations that have not only guaranteed close-up control, but also public insight into the spending of finance; over 50% of the social product in public consumption means that in one day in a thousand places, thousands of people make decisions on spending public finances. It's not enough for one government, any former or present, to say that we have thousands of honest people who are in themselves enough to guarantee that they will be responsible for managing public finances. This isn't a story of honesty. Many did not become thieves because they did not have opportunities. An opportunity is one reason to become thieves. This law provides guarantees, provides public insight into the control of all those who have public finances. That is why the story and the controversy of honesty in the exercise of power is somewhat and pointless, if institutionally not guaranteeing that not only the opposition, but also the citizens and anyone who wants to control the institutions. We met here with one remark, when we came to the Assembly - DOS is the worst; we were bad, you are worse. It's one message that doesn't want to show who's worse, but to justify exactly what you were bad. No matter how uncomfortable it sounds, the reason for the law's adoption is found in a number of data showing in a dramatic way how much funds from public enterprises, institutions and budgets have been spent. In many local self-governments, especially in Belgrade, many of these institutions that have been incorporated into the law have been applied. The effects are more than fragrant. For example, for only one part of the City Traffic Company, which was paid before 196,000 marks, only 66,000 marks were paid this year; it's not 30% or 70%, it's three or six times. If we take the budgets of these public finances, the figures of the effects of these applications are incomprehensible. On the other hand, it is not only tenders and competitions itself that guarantee that certain work or procurement will be done correctly. The law provides for the whole procedure before the tender and after the tender which is guaranteed and allows for insight into all phases of the procedure: from competition documentation, tender documentation, from advertising, to decision-making. The law also provides for one very important thing, that procurement can only be carried out on the basis of the plan; the plan is a precondition, a prerequisite for control. The plans are acts adopted by the congregations, by the managing authorities. So, by their decision, they tied their hands to the executive and allowed the control to take place. This is one example of how the legislative authority controls executive power. It is not the control of the executive government by asking one political power centre in opposition or another party to be heard or respected by the government. The control of the executive authority is that everyone, from prime minister to head of the local office, has an obligation to comply with certain procedures by means and decision-making. It is the control of the executive authority, and it is not an account or settlement with some power centre located on the other side, either in the opposition or in the coalition. So this is proof that this assembly provides control of the executive government, which is not only the government, which is both a municipality and an institution and a public enterprise. That way, as MPs, we make full sense of the control of the executive government. A few criticisms have been mentioned. One is common - the protection of domestic producers. Also, I know one example, I don't want to advertise a company that sold 50% more to a public company than it did to export. When a public competition was called and an import product appeared, the domestic company was given the advantage, but it is not fair for our public company to sell twice as expensive as it exports. Export prices were lower. It's a bad service when you provide the domestic industry with a monopoly. It should be beneficial, but under market conditions in competition. That's why one of the very important principles that the law provides is to guarantee competition. It is certain that in this way we will also discipline, i.e. pedagogical influence on the domestic industry, that it does not behave on the basis of a monopoly position, hahahato. There's a lot of cases like that. I am convinced that, although large savings have been made for the last two years, by passing this law we make a lot of good not only to budget users, but also to the standard of all citizens, who through quality procurement and jobs in meeting general and common needs, in schools, hospitals, local self-government, public works and roads, will be achieved in this way. That is why I find it a very important decision to vote on this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22358	Since MP Vojislav Seselj is not present in the hall, the People's MP Radojko Petrovic has the word, followed by MP Srdja Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22359	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, Mr. Minister, the spending of the public sector in our country accounts for about 50% of the social product. Public consumption funds, as is known, shall be provided through tax procedures, contributions, taxes, customs duties and other means prescribed by the State. This high arrest and separation of about 50% of the social product for public consumption is above the average in transition countries, not to mention developed countries, and significantly above. I would remind you that the total funds provided for the public sector are divided into two parts. The first is used to pay employees' earnings, and the second is used for the purchase of goods, the execution of works and the provision of services. Either way, it's a really huge asset. We heard from Minister Djelic today that about 50 billion dinars are spent annually on public procurement. With this law, the government wants to regulate public procurement with as little cost as possible and to eliminate corruption with an explanation that it wants to ensure the full economy of the use of public funds for public procurement. The government has been defined for the full competitiveness and equality of domestic and foreign bidders. It immediately raises the question whether it is good or bad for the national economy. Is it good to even domestic and foreign bidders? Taking into account the current state of our economy, it must be a multiple-judicial definition. Given the circumstances we've been going through in recent years, our companies are not capable of a fully equal match with foreign producers. Respecting the principle that we need to open up to the outside market, there must be a reasonable measure of protection of domestic production, in order to soon qualify for an equal international match. Well, let's see where this country goes with this much foreign trade deficit. Last year, the coverage of exports was only 39.3%. In January of this year, the export coverage was only 31.4%, and for the first five months of this year it was 36.3% or, in other words, only about one third. Such unfavourable external trade movements have never been recorded in Serbia so far. Who later will be able to pay this debt burden? Normally, all of this is reflected in domestic production that falls drastically. Domestic factories are being closed and workers are being fired. Respecting the principle of the World Trade Organisation, where we certainly cannot become a member within five years, we have the right to certain measures to protect domestic producers. Take, for example, the most developed countries, which are the biggest advocates of openness of the market, as they protect their production in a certain way. Why is the U.S. introducing textile quotas? What are subsidies for agriculture in the United States, the European Union and Japan? Financial support to farmers in OECD countries last year was about 31%. In the production of milk, sugar and rice, the subsidy moved somewhere up to about 50%. Aren't we taught the latest U.S. measures on the adoption and introduction of taxis and customs duties for imports of steel, all in order to protect their production. Nobody adheres to pure wood fair theory anymore - free trade theories, free to produce - free to sell. Maybe we're the exception. How do we justify that a few months ago we imported 15 million pounds of potatoes, when huge quantities of potatoes rot in our producers? It is clear that the proposed provisions of this law, which speak for the full equality and competitiveness of domestic and foreign bidders, should be amended. A certain degree of protection of domestic producers, normally within reasonable frameworks, will accept and the world, which has been accepted in similar circumstances in the world so far. There are still a number of proposed provisions that need to undergo serious changes. Well, is the sustainable proposal given in Article 45 that he can not at all be an bidder at the bidding of a domestic legal person if, in the last five years, a violation of his business has been made. Imagine what an absurdity it will be to say that the government wants as much competition as possible and that the cheaper it builds objects that are financed from public spending, on the other hand excluding construction enterprises that cannot participate in the bidding because in the last five years they have been punished for the offence; I say example - if they transport construction material, they raise dust and are punished for the offence (or some similar banal offence), they are excluded from competition. If the government's proposal doesn't change, imagine what a funny situation we'll have: because of the above-mentioned, really insignificant violations, the construction company in five years won't be able to apply to bid for the construction of a school, hospital or any other facility financed from public spending. I'll file further cases. In order to prevent the abuse of a person who decides to purchase goods, Article 88 requires a restriction that additional purchases of goods without advertising can be made only up to 25% of the value of the main purchase, as is provided for for additional works and additional services, so that it does not happen - you have a job at the auction, but therefore you have to work twice as well as do services without bidding. In view of the limited time for discussion, I will reduce my exposure, with the hope that more suggestions and proposals will be accepted from the SPS MPs. If you accept the SPS amendments, the law will be improved, which is in the interest of all citizens of Serbia, and for that you should make sense and accept what is in the interest of all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22360	The word has a folk MP Srda Popovic, followed by Ljubomir Mucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22361	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what we don't need to interfere with when we talk about the law on public procurement is that it's part of a change in the system in public finances, caused primarily by the state in which DOS found the country when it came to power. To remind you, our country almost lost first place in corruption. Nigeria was a little better at corruption at the time we came to power. We have had a flattering title of silver medal in corruption and the purpose of this law and programme that DOS implements through legislative activity is to curb corruption and savings. This law is the second stage of something very important; let's now see what it looks like where the money was poured out, not only in the previous regime, but what the sources of corruption in our society were at all. First, a lot of money was poured out of the budget. Why? Well, there was a lot of money, so there was a lot of spilling. Secondly, a lot of money has been poured out through our public enterprises right through the public procurement process that we are now talking about. Thirdly, we had regulations that were very difficult to respect and our citizens, who, of course, had a third point at that stage, forced corruption. The DOS programme and the Serbian government programme to deal with these three problems can also be monitored through the legislative activity of this parliament. In order to stop it from happening, like from 1996 to 2000, when we had over a billion marks of non-intentional and criminally spent funds from the budget, we passed the Law on the Budget System at the beginning of this year. In order to avoid public procurement being a major source of corruption, we are now passing a law on public procurement; and the third phase of public finance reform will be the tax administration law, which will take care of public revenue administrations, customs, which will fix that third hole through which our citizens' money is poured out through taxes. I've been doing a little bit of business with a significant institution in this country; it's a little bit of thinking, but it's been a big deal of corruption, and on a few examples from that institution, I'm going to state what are the requirements that this law on public procurement needs to answer. The institution is called the Student Center. It feeds 20,000 students, it is the largest student institution in the Balkans. It is also a matter of this budget, and also of the previous, one of the biggest budget beneficiaries in various divisions in various ministries. Their budget, which was about 30 million marks or 900 million dinars, was cruelly raved, mostly in five points. If you have noticed the budget for this year, or if you have looked at the final account report, if you have listened to what some DOS MPs are saying, we are very often boasting, which has surprised us, as it was possible in only one institution to save 20,000 marks a day. So 20,000 marks a day are now spent less in the Student Centre than it was spent and that institution has therefore received a very prominent international award called the "Transparents International"; so let's see how it got. Five important things to answer the law on public procurement is recorded in this institution, and that is five ways most often stolen in public procurement. The first thing is setting conditions for public procurement. This means - if you look at the conditions that ruled for the purchase of light bulbs, provided, of course, you realize that all lamps in the Student Centre were purchased at a higher price than retail in your self-service, you would find that an awful large number of lamps were especially needed in August, on Fridays. In August, Friday, it was possible to obtain that amount of light bulbs or that amount of meat, on Friday, at 3:00 p.m., with only one supplier. Setting up the terms of the tender, and that's what my colleague Dragan Pavlovic mentioned - if you saw under what conditions certain exhaust pipes were obtained in the GSP, you would see that it fits only one supplier. So when you want to set up public procurement, you go from the terms, and that's where this law is effectively dealt with with with this problem. The other thing is buying through a middleman. In only 17% of the cases, the Student Center obtained from the manufacturer. He mostly got it from the middleman. When asked why; well, they didn't answer. Where to report; that leads us to the third problem, that's transparency. It is not transparency for you to commit a public company or a public contractor to publish an ad somewhere; 73% of all public procurement ads have been published so far; where - in the red fight, of course; and why; so because no one reads it except for the one who needs to read it. Next thing you know, it's debt. So when you have a budget firm, it's filled with some kind of dynamic. You can't pay off suppliers except with this dynamic; therefore make debts to suppliers, and then you have to keep getting from them, even if the price wasn't the lowest. It's something that should also be cut by this law. And the last thing one of my predecessors mentioned was tied up, for example. for the water industry. There have been such cases both at the Student Centre and in some other institutions. These are ex postwork; and that means - you make a deal with someone to tell you, for example. builds a hunting home, and then after two or three months, after he gets the job, days can honor neither the deadlines nor the terms; then you pay him or that house sinks, as happened in one particular case. It's a good law on public procurement, I think this is a good law and that we are thus entering the second phase of public finance reform; it needs to meet some principles -- the principle of economics, the principle of competition, and that means that there are some criteria, a point, and, believe me, they are very strict criteria. Mr. Djelic was talking about a bus tender. Believe it or not, one of the sharp European criteria is the ecological criteria for engines. The Icarbus can already meet Euro II, and it is very possible that it will soon meet Euro III. "Euro II" is a standard for credit to international banks; of course our companies will be obliged to compete with foreign companies here, but also to get some jobs very effectively, as was concrete in the case of a tender for buses. In addition to the principle of economics and competition, we talked a lot about the principle of transparency. I'm so glad to hear about how a thousand zip lighters were obtained, when there was no way of knowing who got the job to build the highway before. And the last thing is the equality of the bidder, which I was just talking about. Ladies and gentlemen, pass the law on public procurement, so there will never be any very ugly things happening to us again. I will never travel again, ever, on the highway to rebuilding the start, Belgrade-Novi Sad, all equally paying 40 dinars, since I don't, of course, use this parliamentary opportunity, and getting some note that says "Grown". Someone's grown very much from making a highway deal, but it didn't grow the highway, and that's why that highway's gonna have to go to a public tender, which I'm sure you've read and heard about somewhere else, not the official messenger. Never again will the Director of the Health Insurance Fund be a very large Swiss savings. Someone asked about the constitutional charter, about Serbia-Montenegro's relations. We'll deal with Montenegro on matters related to financial discipline and the big question was - will this apply to federal authorities? Of course we're going to have to work out how this applies to federal organs. The Yugoslav Army suffers from all the diseases it has suffered from the Student Centre in the past, precisely because of the lack of legal regulation and position they have been in; and it will have to be applied to federal organs, even when it comes to the purchase of coal for the military, which some, I suppose, are also quite interested in. And finally, when we pass this law, as many have spoken here about the police, it will never happen again to me to get 43 addresses on the Vrakar of the same neighbor, Mr. Uskokovic. It's going to stay a little bit more in public enterprises, it's going to stay a little bit more in the budget, so we're going to be able to buy more than 625 apartments, as much as it's bought for some cops so far. Ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to vote for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22362	The word has the People's MP Ljubomir Mucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22363	Dear People's MPs, Mr. Minister, Madam Chairman, this law on public procurement, which has long been announced and long awaited, came only to be considered at this Fourth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly, this year, although it was on the agenda and at the previous, spring, regular session. However, it was not more significant for this government and this assembly, compared to other minor changes to the law, in order to achieve the bonus that all laws and legal projects from the previous period of change. Also, I must say that it is nothing new, nothing strange, but already seen, because after six months it was delivered, the law was passed on December 27th, when it was adopted by the government and signed by Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, whom we have already forgotten, Momcilo Perisic. And here, for six months now, the law has been breaking in the congregation procedure, so it can be estimated that this law really represents a concrete law, a comprehensive, detailed law for the destruction of the domestic economy. And all the honor of such detail and arrangement and determination of these provisions. I think that the basic theme and discussion is, in addition to these individual examples of corruption, because corruption is only talked about in one member of the law, it seems to me to be Article 17, in which it only mentions corruption in one place; we have been talking from this morning on individual examples, about corruption, not really about a law that counts more than 150 members. It also raises one important question - whether at this point this government cares about this law, which is one of the most important parameters for the success of reforms, i.e. the application of this law marks the success of reforming countries in transition. I believe that this law does not correspond to the current authority, which supports the fact that its application will not begin until 2003 (Article 147 of the Law), and the Public Procurement Administration will start working at the latest within one year of the date of the entry into force of this law. So it's only about the second half of 2003. And secondly, an extremely large part of the use, i.e. the spending of public revenue and public funds, is implemented through public procurement of goods, then by using services, or by giving public works, which is out of control. The question is whether this power will even begin to apply the provisions of this law and whether it will continue to apply the legal provisions under which it has opened tenders, have obtained bids so far. We used to call them "determining the likeness of a performer" or "requalification competition." You're calling them requalifications now, so qualifications, and we've called - additional papers, anex contracts for additional works. We've called additional papers, an annex contracts for additional works, and you're calling it different and I think we're going about the same thing. I'm just asking you, these tenders that have been made in the past year and a half, on what basis have they been called? On the basis of some legal rules; whether it is the Law on the Construction of Objects, whether it is the second law, the budget of the Republic of Serbia, the Financial Plan of the Health Insurance Fund, however, was done on the basis of legal rules. The reason behind this bill states: "This is why the proposal to pass public procurement laws reflects not only the government's determination to resolutely oppose corruption, but also the circumstance that reforms in the public finances system of the Republic of Serbia have already moved away, especially in light of the circumstances that other countries in the region have taken five and more years since the start of the transition to adopt a law governing these issues." Starting with the findings and arguments of the minister, that at the beginning when you promised to pass this law and on the basis of it, I would agree with this law at the moment; otherwise, I also agree with the assessment that such a law might be necessary at this point in order to adequately regulate all those things that produced various doubts. The previous quote is very important for several reasons. I agree with the estimates that petty corruption, in the form of low-level gifts and small businesses, will be contained in this law, but the suspicions and corruption of wider scales will not be contained, but will go to a centralised, higher level of the newly formed public procurement administration, whose activity is regulated only through two members, and everything else will be through decisions and parameters, i.e. some of the provisions that the Government will regulate. In Article 19, point 2, this administration will also be the administration for the provision of consulting services to the contracting authorities and tenderers. He can't do both. If it's the public procurement office, I remind you just of what our people said a long time ago-- honey to squeeze and not lick your fingers, it's not going to work. How to explain the anti-corruption rules in Article 17 when the contracting authority receives an offer from a given calendar or pen of 500 dinars, and to keep the bidder unpunished for 10-20 000 or 30,000 euros in service offers or withdrawal from offers. What's the greater damage? When did other countries in transition pass a similar law? After five years and more since the start of the transition. Why did Slovenia not pass a similar law until after eight years, why the domestic banks restructured and started privatisation only after 10 years, and in this shock therapy we start right at the beginning. You always take Slovenia as a positive example. The answer is clear, they were protecting their own economy and finance, so I don't understand how you, without your own economy, are conducting a strategic commitment to the further development of Serbian society, as explained. On the basis of which public procurement will be financed, if there is no production and no tax-based payment, or contribution. By respecting the law and the established principles of economics, competition, transparency and equality of bidders, it is clear that, for example, patients in Valjevska hospital, I have taken Valjevska because I am from Valjev, on the basis of offers that are the most significant, or most favourable; for example, eat Slovenian potatoes or perhaps potatoes from Krajina, which the Republic of Croatia will perform as our best bidder; drink powdered milk instead of domestically dying; eat the meat of mad cows as the most favourable, until it is determined by what infected or to eat cakes from Japanese wheat, and in the budget report, the Government has provided us with the highest amount of donations of Japanese wheat. (Milka Marinkovic from the place: You haven't eaten anything! ) Milka, they ate raspberries and take care of it. And in the end, through the amendments that were submitted, we tried to make certain things clear in this law. Last time, I said, whether or not it would be good for pensioners with the lowest incomes through an increase in electricity prices to allow foreign contractors in the EPS to pay off loans based on guarantees and counter-guarantees we've given so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22364	The word has a National MP Nebojsa Jovic, followed by Joca Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22365	Dear People's MPs, the government of the Republic of Serbia has submitted to the Serbian Parliament a proposal for public procurement laws for the exceptional importance of the use of public funds by state authorities and organisations, authorities of territorial autonomy, local self-government, mandatory social security organisations, public institutions, public enterprises in the economic and social life of the Republic. Such a bill should make it impossible for the choice of suppliers to depend on the discretionary decisions of the contracting authorities, which on the one hand would significantly reduce the efficiency of the spending of public funds, and on the other, the creation of conditions, i.e. A favourable environment for corruption. And the question is, is that exactly what it is? The government passed the Law on Public Procurement on 27 December 2001, and delivered the Assembly on 31 December 2001. If the law is important, systemically, anti-corruption, reform, why wait six months to come to the agenda. The question arises whether it was waiting for individual ministries to make public procurement contrary to the principles set out in the proposed public procurement law. As far as procurement is not subject to the law, Article 2 of the Law is an extremely important member because it determines exceptions to which the law is not applied, so I believe that the same law should be as precise as possible, so that there is no room for interpretation, which creates conditions for abuse. In this context, arms and other procurements, which are as confidential to certain specific regulations, should, above all, be allocated to the procurement of goods and services controlled by the State, such as goods whose price is determined by the State, such as the price of medicines. These procurements should be excluded, i.e. the law is not applicable to them, and for goods for which the state does not establish prices, the law on public procurement would apply. The government of the Republic of Serbia, on a proposal from the finance and economy minister, sets out a list of ordermakers every 6 months. This is not disputed if public procurement refers to funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget, but if it includes spending other funds, such as funds from compulsory social security, then it is illogical that these proposals are made by the finance and economy minister, but should already include relevant competent ministries, the health ministry for health insurance funds, the Ministry of Labour for Finance of Unemployment. It is not a questionable principle of economic and efficiency, the use of public funds and the principle of ensuring competition among bidders, but it is a questionable principle of transparency of use of public funds; because no one disputes the fact that "the official messenger of the Republic of Serbia" is an official voice, but it is also not available to everyone, and as you wish to say - transparency and availability; the greater the number of interested public procurement calls should be published even in some means of public inflation. I do not agree with the principle of equality between the tenderers as provided for in Article 8 of the proposed law. The proposed solution to the bill creates the conditions for foreign bidders to participate equally with domestic ones, although there are no conditions for our bidders in their countries to participate under the same conditions, as well as for certain bidders to participate, only if they meet certain conditions and specifications of activity, regardless of whether they have been authorised in our country to place that good on the market. A foreign tenderer must have a specific certificate for the product standard and meet all the conditions prescribed by the applicable rules for placing goods on the market and in the interest of the protection of domestic producers. I believe that under the same conditions in assessing bids, the priority of engagement should be given to the domestic bidder, given that domestic resources are neglected, that nothing seems to protect domestic production from competition from abroad, in particular non-quality foreign goods, but also to be sold to foreign producers. The draft law fully unnecessarily prescribes the obligation of international competition in conditions where domestic economy is uncompetitive compared to abroad. In the proposed law, there is absolutely no protection of domestic providers, manufacturers or contractors, even in situations where offers are equal with the offer of a foreign natural or primary person. In addition to numerous government agencies, which are typical examples of para-state organisations, which function without any institutional parliamentary control, we are now also receiving a public procurement administration, which will correspond exclusively to the government, or the finance minister. Will management be transformed into an agency in time? The question arises whether public procurement administrations should have any business under Sections 1, 2, 3 and 5 of the Laws, as the State Administration Authority cannot deal with these matters as a matter of activity. The administration as a state authority shall collect and process extremely important information on undertakings, tenderers and contracting authorities, and for such information, the obligation to keep business secrets and to prohibit competition for employees working in that authority, including the restriction of the subsequent conduct of operations in which such information and knowledge can be misused.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22366	The word has been given by MP Joca Arsic, followed by MP Dragan Jovanovic, and he is the last registered speaker on the debate lists in principle.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22367	Dear fellow MPs, we have yet another proposal from the government of the famous system laws, such as the law that lies before us today. The first and basic remark that has been heard here several times, which is mine, is that the law entered the procedure in December of the month, and that it is only now on the agenda and that it is only now being discussed, although many amendments are given to this law and there are around 90. Even the government has put 11 amendments on its proposal to improve the text of this law. Surely one such law should be passed, to arrange this matter in one law, which was otherwise governed by other laws. So far there have been tenders, public competitions, bids, and in this way certain jobs have been allocated, when it comes to budget funds; at least that's how it was in practice in the city where I come from, in the Great Plan, where we've had a lot of investments; they're all given by public advertising and with the maximum competition that was in getting jobs. Under the most favourable conditions were selected performers and performed all these works in a quality and competent manner. Even Mr. Kresic participated in some of our business in the Great Plan, when it comes to urbanism and planning, if I am not mistaken. Furthermore, all the positive experience in these investments has been used and it is certain that there have been no abuses, and at least so far there have been no reports of any known criminal activity reports. What's worrying here, and what some have said, is that the sum of 50 billion, part of the budget that needs to go to public procurement on any basis, can be spent, anything, through foreign suppliers and foreign companies. No one here guarantees by this law that 50 billion in competition with foreign companies, foreign bidders, will be allowed to make the necessary purchases, investments or services. So it's one of the basic problems I'd have to say, that in a very clumsy way, it protects domestic production. Does this mean that the EPS will now be able, for the sake of the bidder, on the side, and are already coming up with the delivery of equipment, installation, etc., to eliminate "Goshu" from the Great Plan, the company that has been performing the works so far, which performs quality works on the foreign market, and not just with us. We know for what reasons they've been disabled, because of the embargo and everything that's been happening to us, that these works are being done in some previous period, but they still have business connections and work outside. Does this mean that it won't be possible in harsh competition, under the same conditions, exactly the same, as foreign bidders, that our domestic companies such as Gosa Montaža, such as MIN Nis, such as other large companies that can perform such works and deliver equipment, to get these jobs. I don't think it's a bad solution, it's not a quality in the interest of our economy and these great capacities that we have, which we can't hire, and we've hired them outside in sharp competition with other producers. What's going to happen to the Energy Project, who's been doing work all over our country, all over the world, all over this globe, that's been doing these work. Will he have the advantage under equal conditions with his foreign partner? I don't think this law will, and that's what's harshly against this law. There's one more thing I want to apostrophe here, and that's why it's been waiting so long. We've been waiting six months to take this law into debate, and we say it's urgent, it's necessary, it's going to prevent many abuses, possible and possible. Some here have said that the only one who is close to making mistakes is the one who has the power to decide. That's not true. That thesis is completely upside down. He who is prone to dishonesty is prone to dishonesty on any basis. So, time, six months, we've been waiting for the procedure, and then we say it's necessary and it's going to be valid since 2003, and that what's most important, the one who's going to do all these jobs, that body that's neither agency nor woman, nor girl, is going to do this job just one year after this law is passed. What are we actually doing right now in this vacuum? Do we make it possible for anyone, here is the mention of oil, masks and other things, that in that period, while we don't have these regulations, there can be other jobs like this, which we criticise and which we put here, to finish, until all these legal regulations come into force. That would be my last remark. I think we're from the government, whose ministers say, if you don't have the money to pay for the electricity -- sell the house, if you don't have the money to school your kids-- sell the apartment, we could expect something like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22368	The word is given by MP Marin Kresic, the right to replication based on mentioning in the presentation of MP Joce Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22369	Just so you don't get a picture if one example confirms the rule. I mentioned my colleagues, qualified, competent, who are outside. Why are they out there? After all these awards, the first one to receive only one house has managed to make several plans in Serbia and has led several plans, mainly in Montenegro; this second one has failed to build and others have been working on plans in Serbia, several people have built around Serbia. That's what it points to. So now it combines competence, quality, price and all together. Then that's why this law should be supported.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22370	The word has been issued by MP Dragan Jovanovic, as the last reported on the lists of speakers for the debate in question.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22371	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I was thinking of giving up the discussion because I was a little scared by Mr. Ceda Jovanovic when he threatened all MPs who did not support this law to support some director of the Clinical Center. However, I think that there should be a slightly different opinion in the Assembly, that the law should be looked at on the other hand, that some dilemmas be opened, and the minister is there and I think he is competent and can answer all the questions. At first sight, the name of the law, the law on public procurement, suggests ordinary law, and especially Serbian citizens, does not indicate that it is a very serious law that is a dangerous weapon that, if used incorrectly, can cause major consequences. Why am I saying this? Public procurement covers, the minister said, more than 50% of gross national income. So it's about the extremely large money this country is making for the purchase. Not denying Mr. Minister's wish to stand in the way of petty corruption, of which no one in this country may have been immune, I would try on the other hand to shed light on the motives of passing such a law. One of the motives of such a law, in a text like this, can also be fear of the rapid loss of government's power, surrounded by powerful financial lobbys and under pressure is a major acquisition. It creates the possibility to eliminate small corruption, but to create enormous corruption. If the director of the Clinical Center paid 70,000 marks, I don't know if he did or didn't, the one who's from the Health Fund is now getting tens of billions, he probably won't take the calendars or anything else. We need to look at the environment from the world. We can't claim that a good marriage law guarantees a good marriage. Look at the "Lokid" affair in Japan, in the '60s, it can be found in literature a famous example of Kozlov, director of the Russian State procurement agency, which only on the purchases of pyro fat made the biggest robbery in the Soviet Union perhaps in the last 50 years. Therefore, both Mr. Pavlovic and Mr. Srdjan speak highly of the law, but too much praise one such law, that it is a guarantee that there will be no corruption; I accept that there will be no petty corruption. It's given an option; objectively, it exists. If someone has the resources of several billion (digits up to 50 billion are mentioned), with large purchases, especially when foreign companies are involved, large corruptions may occur. This could save us some savings to reduce the number of places in prisons, because if one makes big corruption, it's less than when 100 makes small corruptions. Another thing that can interfere with the adoption of such a law is the pressure of powerful multinational companies on our government. We are aware of the fact that some donations are coming and multinational companies are participating in the recovery of electricity and everything else. However, if realistically, we look completely at the dangers that stand, some political persecution, or who the party belongs to, to look reality into the eyes. If we look at the freedom of the tender, I'd like the minister to come out (and perhaps later to understand it) and lead me to only one country in the world, which has liberalised the public procurement sector by this stage. It means that anyone, at any price, can come forward and win a tender because the law highlights the lowest price. So there are more criteria, but one of the basic criteria is the lowest price. I can understand the desire of someone who has a budget to buy cheaper. However, the medal has two sides: the budget is filled by those working in this area. I think opening our market like this, without restrictions on the basic price factor, can be very devastating for the economy in which it is. Chad says, in a year we passed the law. I don't think the other countries have accidentally stalled that period. In my opinion, this looks like the patient who broke his leg the day before yesterday and sent him to rehab at the spa. Or, 10-11 players with broken legs come out to play a game against the world champion. I don't think our economy at this point is absolutely ready to withstand competition and medium-sized world firms; and not to mention all of which is why, of the benefited interest, through trade funds, through the state of the economy, the capacity, the destruction, there are millions of analyses that can be done. What's practically going to happen? To find the answer to that question -- to open tenders, so we're not holding back, without any backup, and without any limit, foreign bidders will come forward. Even in agricultural products, because we have no subsidies. The VMA tender for the supply of food is announced by Croatian manufacturers who, I know, sell 4.5 stamps and have 2.5 brands of government subsidies, and our "Melkoproduct" from Zrenjanin is nice 7 marks. The chances of any Serbian firm getting a job in that competition are slim. I don't advocate sesa monopoly, far from it, we have to school our firms and get used to the competition. Is a cut like this, and all of a sudden, it can give a terribly negative result. Someone needs to fill the budget tomorrow. We need a half of 50 billion, or 50% of the national income, to have it in the next round, to get back to those who gave it up for tax. How are we gonna get them back? We'll pay them back by giving them a job so they can pay their taxes. So I think in that part, and there were a few amendments, we shouldn't be ashamed, or we can say to those who pressure us -- gentlemen, take the regulations. He mentioned a colleague of the World Trade Organisation's regulations. There is an indexation for developing and transition countries, which says that the right to protect is a market-based way of doing business, that no one is punishing you for it. So there's a chance we can protect ourselves. There is no country in the world that has this open market. The minister came from France. I'd like him to tell me how to get mineral water to France. They've put on perfidne protection, they've introduced one factor that doesn't exist anywhere, they've found that their water has a degree of electroconductivity of 04, and they say that water that doesn't have a degree of electroconductivity 04 cannot enter the French market, although in all other elements they're better than that water. Therefore, I am afraid that this open market, i.e. this sudden opening without any reserves (in my opinion, and perhaps I do not have enough information, the minister can explain it, I accept it with the reserve), gives very weak chances of Serbia's economy, industry and agriculture, because the situation in which it is located does not guarantee the possibility of playing a game with world competition. I think maybe it'll come back to us next year when the economy can't fill the budget because of that condition. Then we won't even have a source of income to buy that side. I think we should accept amendments going that way -- not giving absolute monopoly, but some kind of protection, at least under the same conditions. We were so gentle, we said, under the same other conditions, to give priority to the domestic economy. I don't think you should sneak up on stories about the perfection of the law. I'm a little irritated by Mr. Bogdanovic who is being irritated by masks. Here, your press was writing about getting a mask for the police. I happen to be from Kruševec and I was at Trayla; I know the factory well, they're exporting to Germany, America, the Netherlands, and their masks are masks the world recognizes. They're not 2.5 times... Well, the question now is why they didn't participate, is the tender not published in the red fight? I'd like someone to show me the paperwork I'm talking about. Paying 2.5 times as expensive a mask of the same quality as its competitors suggests that the trend of corruption will not be overcome by good law. I mentioned earlier the "Lokid" affair from Japan that applies to a country of morality, and from other countries of countless major affairs; the greater the availability of larger money, the possibility of major corruption, especially if multinational companies enter, is even greater. I'd like you to take another look at the amendments. The laws are good at the part where they can be implemented. This law, I must say, has a lot of insanity. When you see that something is exaggerated, normably turning out well, it always causes suspicion. I know from sports, the most important games where there was super control are the most successful fakes. Much better than those country games down there. Thus, over-indulgence, excessive norms can be extremely dangerous, for it can be a front for other things. So everything's transparent, everything's visible, everyone's watching, the whole world's watching, but it's fake. Therefore, you should not have so much confidence and so much optimism that by passing the law, it will all be ideal and there will be no new affairs. So we're currently against the law. We're not in a position to be guardians of the economy, but listen to the Chamber of Commerce, ask some of those from the Small Enterprises Agency, ask everyone else, see how it reacts, not to get into a situation so we don't have anything to fix afterwards.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22372	The word is given by MP Nenad Bogdanovic, the right to replication, based on a direct mention in the presentation of MP Dragan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22373	I had to answer, gentlemen of the Parliament, because I had nothing to do with those masks and I don't know why the previous speaker associated me with any masks. I'll just take the chance to say a few sentences, because I think it's important. As chairman of the Finance Committee, I did not answer on this subject, because I knew there would be stories like this and there would be opportunities to say some important things in a few sentences. I can't understand the argument -- we're against it, as the predecessor said, because it's good, but we don't know how it's going to be. Then you don't even understand what an argument is, why someone's against someone. The law on public procurement is terribly important. I can tell you that after three months in the City Assembly, we have practically introduced extremely complex procedures, extremely standardized, extremely complicated and very difficult for everyone, including members of the government. In fact, we inherited something that was a real disaster from the previous period. More than 6,000 tenders have been made in the Belgrade City Assembly for the past 14 months, and what is under our direct supervision. In addition, there are tenders and public procurements carried out through municipal systems; this is done by their couples, which we directly control, except through boards of directors. I can say that this public is primarily important, because we have received seven or eight official complaints. So those who participated were complaining. I'll tell you again -- out of those eight, only one was truly founded, a mistake was made, we admitted it. So, I want to tell you that the public is above all important that all those who participate in that supply chain are reminded that someone can look, control, that someone can say - sir, you didn't do your job well. Let's say, in this proposal, we defined 350,000 dinars as the lower limit. We sent her down even lower in the City Hall. That's what others will be able to do. So our border is 100,000 dinars. The resistance to this is awe - all, those who work, those who control, those who control, but I can tell you that as a consequence, we have what is purchased now in dinars costing twice as much as what was obtained in 1999. It's just an argument for you to prove that you have to do it like that. What I lack in the law -- I have to say that I hope that in some other law it will be regulated -- if through public procurement it comes to the knowledge that today, through public tenders, something is purchased two or three times as cheap as three or four years ago, how does the legal one who did it three or four years ago correspond? That must have been something else. This law has not been defined, but there must be a way for one who stole (and one who obtained two or three times as much three years ago) to pay what he did. Of course, there's no argument that corruption is always there and that's why we won't change anything. That's total nonsense. Anyone who handles money can potentially participate in corruption, but we need to create a mechanism, a way of working so no one can think of stealing state money.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22374	There are no more entries on the lists of MPs for the word. Before the initial search is concluded, I ask if the presidents or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want to speak? The word is from MP Rajko Baralic, the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22375	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the debate has shown that there are still open issues in the proposed law on public procurement. Regardless of the efforts made by individual MPs and DOS officials, the SPS MPs cannot be imputed to be malicious. They showed it to the amendments they've been putting up with. I said some have already been accepted. The main issue of the amendment is to improve the legal solution. You admitted it by accepting the two amendments. So it's not about malignancy. First of all, it is a good intention to criticise the proposed legal solution. Criticism can be positive and negative. Then, it is the intention to present to Serbian citizens what can be the real consequences of adopting such a legal solution. Interestingly, everyone stays in their positions here, Minister Djelic said - right now (so he said at the beginning) we take responsibility, we fight corruption, etc. The government of the Republic of Serbia has been functioning since 25 January 2001. If there was a real danger that the old law that regulated public procurement was a source of corruption, then this law should have been passed earlier. That's what we said, fellow MPs and I, in the first address. It is interesting what all the legislator predicts is being exempted from this way of providing public procurement. In one place, the law says that the law does not apply, if a special international contract or any other act is regulated... Mrs. Komic, would you be so kind as to bring the Members of the People's Parliament to their purposes, which is that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, they act elementally tolerantly.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22376	For such an address to the messengers of the people, I give you a warning before the first warning, and I ask all the messengers of the people to respect article 99, and to obey the speaker without being thrown away and with caution.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22377	I thank you for the strictness of the application of the Rules of Procedure. I'm very honored. In this article, it is said that certain contracts, primarily by international means, some organisations deprive themselves of the obligation to make public procurement in accordance with this law. This mentions the stationing of military troops on the ground of the state. What I'm saying is that I can suddenly guess who asked for a provision like this to be found in this law. I will remind the case of Macedonia, which, thinking it does good to itself and its citizens, hosted 30,000 US troops a while ago. She couldn't sell those American soldiers one liter of mineral water. So, just as much as, God forbid, they have a chance to come here, I don't wish for it, it wouldn't be possible for domestic producers to sell anything. When he spoke to Mr. Jovanovic about insanity, he thought of this, among other things. Why do you care so much about details that are irrelevant, which are very important to other countries and other people's interests. Mr Djelic said the Public Procurement Administration is a way to enable insight and control into the spending of funds in the public sector in a correct, efficient, transparent way. Of course, it can be defended that way, but it can also be attacked because it is abnormal for such financial power to be concentrated in one country and only in one person. I repeat -- the ministers of other ministries of this law have been deprived of the right to have a more important impact on the decisions that provide education procurement, health care, anything else that is in the works of these ministries. The finance minister here is a man who practically is a hat of everything. We don't mind if Mr Djelic has such a degree of trust from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but this trust must also be checked with citizens, it must also be checked in the economy, among those interested in providing what they produce or services they can provide - provided in their country for money provided by taxpayers in this country. Here, Mr. Kovacevic, just a little more. It's only seven more minutes. Here I want to point out the sphere of agricultural products, the various purchases that are made for the needs of health, the military, the student institutions and the like. In Yugoslavia, otherwise, at this time in Serbia, there is, above all, insufficient protection in terms of premiums for certain agricultural products, or in terms of height and type of levies for certain agricultural products that can be imported into this country. This puts domestic production in one non-competitive position, which is what we are talking about here, and we are obliged to warn Serbian citizens about this. Our intention isn't ugly. We have, above all, the obligation to inform people that this is happening. It happened here, where people last year couldn't sell the remaining 500,000 tons, imported 17,000 tons of potatoes. There were other cases like that. Someone had some reasons for that. Of course these reasons are subject to the court of the public and I also ask Mr Djelic to give us an answer on whether it is true that the supplier for crude oil was designated by 30 June 2003. If so, why is such a decision made? Do Serbian citizens have any idea what it is to purchase, what its value is and what objective possibilities for different speculations, I will not say - manipulations, such procurement leaves. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22378	Anybody else answer for a word? Please, there is a minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22379	I'll try to answer a few questions that came up in this debate. These laws live. And this law will live its life. If we look at other countries' experiences, after a few years of application, there have been some changes. However, we were very careful to strike the right balance between the interests of our economy, i.e. it was one of the key things that has been broken here, and the interests of consumers, and consumers are our taxpayers throughout the country. It's very important to establish the right balance. Directly and on this issue, I must say that it is very surprising to hear so much concern about domestic production from those who brought this country into an international blockade, those who, I would say, privatized -- what little privatisation they did was without any tender; of those who, precisely because there was no regulation, were de facto in many cases the exponents of the import lobby, those who were, in one case or another, able to offer bribes. We also have examples in health care and in many other areas. These provisions - transparency, strictness and normity are the assurance that our domestic production competes under the same conditions and not under the conditions of someone with more money, when something is not arranged. Judging from the first 16 months, for the implementation of public procurement, especially those which are distributed by public enterprises, we see - when our domestic industry is done in the right way and how there is a chance; and it is not by any chance that in those public procurements that are seen through the law that you passed a few days ago, for counterguarantee, from the MIN via "Gosa" and other businesses, they can offer their services. Of course we'll follow very closely what's going on. Of course, the interests of our domestic production are very high on the list of all the goals we have. We are convinced that this normivity will not only provide good for our domestic, existing production against import lobbys that are tough when there are no rules, but it will also allow some of our new manufacturers to report, that they have access; I think there has been one amendment in that direction, but it will give that effect, that new small and medium-sized enterprises have the opportunity to compete where things used to happen only between existing manufacturers and established business relationships. That's why it's not true that this law is against the interest of our domestic production. On the contrary, it is deeply in the interest of our economy and it will allow our producers to find themselves in the same position as those who, possibly at this point, can offer some money. I would say that no one should have to think that this came under the pressure of some large capital, to use myself as a vocabulary in the 1960s, on the contrary, this is one orderly way to make it possible for businesses from Kruševac, Leskovec, Nis and other cities of our country to compete in the right way and have someone to complain if they think that someone who is in contact with a large international company wants to do something against their interests. That was one of the very important reasons why we're making this law at this point. I'd like to point out that there were some illogicalities here. Some of the Messengers said, "Well, why did you wait so long?" While, on the other hand, they said, "We are against this law." It doesn't go together. Either you agree with us that this law should be passed as soon as possible, and in that case you agree with its integrity, or you are against it and then explain why you are against it, but then you can't say you're sorry that we've been waiting for it for six months. I'd like to mention two more things. The first concerns organisation and responsibility in this procedure. It's not true that this administration suddenly becomes a great customer. Look at the provisions of this law. She's here because there's someone watching what others do. It is the degree of control, transparency in the work, which will allow all those who form commissions, all who conduct public procurement to know that there is one administration at the level of the Government of the Republic of Serbia that must report to the government itself, and hence the Assembly, to know what is going on in their public procurement. It is not true that the Ministry of Finance and Economy is taking over the role of restoring ministries, but it is true that it is the only one in charge of the even execution of the budget. As we saw at the end of the year, when we talked about those issues -- how to determine what is a positive list of medications, which have helped this; so I guess the experience from the last ten years shows that a little collegiation and a little cross-control is a little bit of a check on the one that's not exactly from that profession, for example. Health and others, welcome, so there are no deals in some professions. It is a good intervention of those who have no contact with these professions, but should establish the interest of the budget and the equal implementation of the budget, regardless of who the users are. So that's no question of honesty. It's just a mechanism that allows for the implementation of all of this to be known to be higher, through the participation of the Ministry of Finance and Economy, on the one hand, and the administrations on the other hand, to report and that there will be more degrees and reflectors that will work so that everyone knows that one day everyone will be able to ask why it was so. It is the first step and the first degree in eliminating corruption in this domain. The second, or last thing, concerns punishment. The question is, what if someone goes wrong about the law? We've got two questions here. I agree with an MP from an opposition group who said the fines are below the level, but that's our law on penalties and violations. If that's supposed to change, in one regulated legislative system, then it should. I think there is also a proposal for amendments to that law, to amend some of the provisions in the domain of our criminal policy, which no longer applies, I would say, to the modern system, because economic crime is one of the greatest crimes in society. That's why it's the right way to get those laws first and personally I wouldn't mind, in accordance with that, putting the criminal provisions of this law at a slightly more appropriate level. And finally (it was a question of colleague Bogdanovic) - what if through this procedure it was found that there were irregularities? Well, of course, there is no other element, which is a budgetary inspection, which should, according to the Budgetary System Act, be established at the level of local self-government, at the level of the AP Vojvodina; it is now expanding and strengthening at the level of the Ministry of Finance and Economy. Of course, according to official duty, she should initiate the procedure and check what happened here and propose appropriate measures. If we look at the budget inspection from 1996 to 2000, there are already twelve and a change of criminal charges against 47 people; an additional budget inspection will lead to an increase in these criminal charges, up to 100 people. There, so much for this law on public procurement. I would say that our citizens should be afraid of those whose mouth is full of incentives for domestic production, and a large number of leaders have been caught in action, that, in fact, some foreign producers and their intermediaries have received bribes; we should watch out for those who are allowed to talk about it today -- and what is going to happen; and in fact, no stationing of foreign troops here at all is foreseen; they have brought foreign troops to our soil by their madness and suicide policy. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22380	I hereby conclude the search in principle and, in accordance with Article 136(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Before that, I set a break to 15.05 hours. [[Pause.]] [[After a break - 15.25 hours.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the afternoon session of today's debate in detail on the law on public procurement. Meanwhile, you received information from the government of the Republic of Serbia with an opinion on amendments by MP Vojislav Seselj and a notification of changes in the agenda. National MP Vojislav Seselj submitted to the 1st amendment. National MP Rajko Baralic... I ask MP Vojislav Seselj to ask for a word if he wants to say anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22382	Ms. Komic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there was an injury to the Rules of Procedure, Article 96(2), just before the midday work was completed. I asked for a replica of the presentation of Finance and Economy Minister Mr Bozidar Djelic, Mrs Comic chaired at that time and concluded the debate and now, as you can see, we are moving to work in particular. Mr Bozidar Djelic made several extremely incorrect remarks, and false, of course, at the expense of the SPS, and my intention was to adequately respond. So, I'm warning you that the injured member of Section 96 is Article 2. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22383	National MP, you have called for a violation of Article 96(2). Article 96(2) reads: "In breach of the Rules of Procedure, the decisions of the National Assembly and the President of the National Assembly are not considered to be based on the discretionary powers provided for in this Rules of Procedure". The giving of words does not fall within discretionary powers, and if you are not satisfied with the view that the Rules of Procedure have not been injured in the previous case, then, according to the Rules of Procedure, I may, at your request, request a session of the Administrative Board and that the Administrative Board be made known. (Rajko Baralić, from the place: No. I thank you. So we continue the discussion in detail. National MP Vojislav Seselj submitted to the 1st amendment. The government did not accept this amendment, the Finance Committee did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22384	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have made a number of amendments to this law because I believe that the legal text can be corrected by these amendments and that the law can basically be good if these amendments are incorporated; because I believe that it was high time that the state centralised the procurement area for the functioning of the state authorities, that it is centralised to the maximum for those reasons that we have already heard in the explanation. However, the first member already sees the danger of centralisation becoming a kind of monopoly. Centralisation can be achieved at the level of the Republic Government. The government has a mechanism to do so and all ministers and all ministries would participate in the mechanism. This is how, if it is formed, as foreseen by the first member of the law, the special administration for public procurement and subordinated to the Ministry of Finance by the nature of things, then not that the Ministry of Finance will have a monopoly over the availability of money but also a complete monopoly over spending of that money for certain, primarily material, needs of ministries and other state bodies. The state must, through government, not one body of administration lower than the ministry, manage these affairs and bear responsibility for their implementation. What should the government do in this case? That each year, it assesses the needs, on the basis of these needs, to call a public competition or public bidding and to set suppliers according to the most favourable criteria, and then to distribute these goods where necessary, or according to the programme of its work and the work programme of each ministry individually. Of course, here it should be borne in mind that it is not just the government and the ministries, but all the institutions and organizations in the state property. Remember, there is the university, there are all schools, all health institutions, a huge number of users of various consumer goods, a huge number of suppliers and one strong and powerful administration that will essentially decide there. If the administration is formed as an organ lower than the ministry, the administration cannot do the job well for more reasons, for all those reasons why every serious society in the world is fighting bureaucracy, its power and influence. The new administration means strengthening bureaucracy. It's not state control. It's bureaucratic control. If the government does so with its apparatus, it is stronger authority in doing business, and it is easier to control by parliament and individual ministries each other. If the body is to deal with procurement on behalf of all ministries and institutions under their control, the issue of co-ordination among ministries is immediately raised. If this body is responsible to only one ministry, the issue of control of the one ministry is raised. We have had a problem for decades that every minister is absolutely autonomous in his work circle and when a final account is submitted to avoid entering individual items, it is rounded up in some general paragraphs, from which it cannot be seen transparently what the money is spent for. The problem here will be even bigger and more obvious. Each final report of this administration will be hundreds and hundreds of pages, and if it is the administration of only one ministry at the end of the year, no one will be able to control it in detail, nor will the body be ready to open up an opportunity to control its own work. If it's government doing it as a collective body of the administration and the highest authority of the administration, then it's her control...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22385	Five minutes and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22386	I've got five minutes left after being head of the parliamentary group. Can I put it together?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22387	Yes, you can.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22388	It's better if I don't put it together. Maybe someone else will.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22389	I don't know. Make up your mind.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22390	So the bottom line is that on such important issues it is not worth forming a lower body of administration than the ministry, but that these important issues are dealt with by a body that is above the ministry. The only body above the ministry is the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22391	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, we move on to Article 2. I would ask all the MPs to closely monitor the course of the session and to ask if any of the other authorised participants in the debate would like a word made clear by raising their hands or, as usual, in the Assembly, with yes or no. So, do you want a word as president of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group? The word is from MP Vojislav Seselj, president of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22392	I would now support some more general arguments from this proposal that the Government be an organ that will directly deal with public procurement, not a special administration, a administration that is in the nature of things lower than the ministry. Most of the budget, over 95% of the budget is probably spent by the government. The government is the biggest consumer of state money, of people's money. The government has to answer. The government can answer directly and specifically. On such an important issue, given that budget money is spent to the greatest extent on salaries and material assets, the spending material resources of various ministries, organisations and institutions, it would be very important for the government to disburse itself, to control it itself, to do and to respond to it; for, the Ministry of Finance already has huge powers in the area of finance, the collection of fiscal income, distribution and distribution of fiscal income. If he is added another such extensive job within the administration under his direct control, then the Ministry of Finance, by its jurisdiction, exceeds every other ministry in the government, so it can be said freely that all ministries together do not have as much jurisdiction as just one. If the government does so through its General Secretariat and if you don't have the right people in the General Secretariat to do so right now, then it can't be a problem. People find themselves at least 64 years old, like you found the Secretary of the Assembly. There are people who are able to afford it, but it is important that the organic link between the government, as the main responsible state body for the availability and consumption of this money, and whoever directly decides on the spending of that money is not indirect. All ministries respond to the government, but all ministries are not ready to respond to this administration. Who will control the spending of consumer resources? In the past, users themselves purchased these consumer assets. This is not good, and the value of this law is to concentrate procurement, to achieve savings and to avoid paying a variety of fees that have been in practice (the essence is affected), but not to create a new monopoly, which may not achieve 15% on behalf of commissions, but it is sufficient for it to achieve one or two percent, if there is no necessary control over it. I've controlled the maximum, and you can see it from the government board's stenogram of economics and finance, so check it out a little bit. You can tell someone else that. In this case, it's about the law. My goal is to make this law as good as possible. Those of you who are used to doing similar things in the municipalities, bear in mind that they will have to do so at some point in time and on the subject of municipalities to regulate themselves. I know that I have made huge savings by learning from the failures of my predecessors and that these savings are embedded in water, sewerage, asphalt roads, facades, etc. I know that what I've been doing hasn't been done before and that nobody's done it in the past two years since the government's changed there. That's the point. I talked about it all the time, but you didn't listen, as you're not willing to listen now, maybe because many people don't understand. I am counting on Djelic to understand, so I suggest that he accept this amendment, because all the amendments I have made here are very constructive and to calculate that their adoption of the law improves. We're not against the adoption of this law in principle. I see you've only adopted one amendment for me. It's a mistake on your part, and I don't know why you're the one, because you should have studied them a little more seriously, so you'd see that they're very seriously saved and they're improving the text of the law. Of course, my intensity in writing these amendments is to achieve as much control as possible, including control of a key finance minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22393	Moving to Article 2. National MP Vojislav Seselj submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22394	You can laugh as much as you want. I saw you held a debate this morning about who he was when he was promoted to the rank of Colonel, Master or Professor. I'm not interested in these discussions, I'd be more concerned with this issue on the agenda. I request an amendment to Article 2 that two first points be deleted: "1) organisations which are considered as contracting entities within the meaning of this law and which are designed to carry out the activities of providing services which are subject to public procurement; 2) under an international agreement relating to the supply of goods, the execution of works, the provision of services or public competitions for drafts, which are intended to be applied or exploited jointly by the States, i.e. the organisations that have completed it." Article 2 says these organisations are not subject to the provisions of this law. That's wrong. The provisions of the law should also apply to these organisations, so that point 1) and point 2), as exceptions, should be deleted. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: The minister didn't explain it to us in his opening exposé. Why would they be excluded? We know from practice that there are a huge number of abuses there. This principle must extend to them as well. Why would the provisions of this law be exempt from procurements under an international agreement relating to the supply of goods, the execution of works, the provision of services or public competition for drafts, which are intended for the joint application or exploitation of the project by the States or organisations that have concluded it? So, if an international contract provides that a foreign state is directly involved in the work of its realisation, then there is no reason to insist that our competent state authority does so. There are also our perpetrators of the relevant provisions of the contract; why would they be on the basis of the international agreement and of the funds received by the international agreement that are set out in this control system. I would ask Minister Djelic a concrete question -- do you mean this way to exempt this company from control from Surcin, is it called "Crifier-Production", as it is already called, which has already been given the biggest jobs on asphalting in Serbia? (Minister Djelic, from the place: Aren't those eggs? Eggs? Whether the eggs are paved, Ministers, which is what they pave the way for; perhaps they're asphalting the eggs, and they're blocking the eggs when they're flushed down the asphalt. Maybe that's it. Wait, I answer; the minister first mentioned the eggs. Did you hear, Mrs. Comic, that the minister first mentioned the eggs? The minister has imposed an egg debate on me, because he's probably into those eggs. However, I would rather talk about the essence of the problem. Why would this kind of control of a state organisation, institution, institutions, etc. be freed, using funds obtained under interstate agreements. What is obtained on the basis of an interstate agreement is a kind of parafiscal income. It's not a classic fiscal income, it's a kind of parafiscal, but in a way of using... And you can't overpower me, you can make fun of me, it doesn't bother me, it doesn't bother me, it doesn't bother me. You can only envy me for understanding these questions, unlike you. Milka may also understand these issues mentioned by Minister Djelic, not in the essence of the problem. [[Sagar.]] I insist, therefore, that the minister reconsiders, and it would be good to accept this amendment, as well as to make as few exceptions as possible in this law. The less exceptions, the more thorough the application of the law in practice.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22395	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate on the amendment to Article 2 want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, we move on to the amendment to Article 2, which was submitted jointly by MPs Vlatko Sekulović, Rodoljub Sabic and Branko Pavlovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone in the name of the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Does any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, we move on to the amendment to Article 2 submitted jointly by MPs Nebojsa Jović, Rajko Baralić, Radojko Petrovic, Momir Radoičić, Marko Culibrk, Ljubomir Mucic, Golub Rajic and Dragan Jovanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone in the name of the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) Here you are, the word has a National MP, Nebojsa Jovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22396	What about you? I'm not mad...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22397	I ask the MPs, and this is indeed in the course of today's work the last oral warning, that a member of the 99th, in his last position, binds us all equally. First, the next discard and distraction of speakers will cause a warning to the MP who violates Article 99. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Thank you, and I'm sorry, MP, we'll go with your time again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22398	No problem. It is the provisions of Article 2 of the law on procurement to which the law does not apply; on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to the term "arms" in Article 2(4) and to add a new point 5) which would read: "Other procurements which are confidential to certain specific regulations". This is an extremely important member of the law, because the same exception is determined to which the law is not applied and therefore the same would have to be more precise, not to leave much room for interpretation, which is a space for abuse. The above-mentioned proposals specify and complete the provisions in the case of procurement excluded from this law. I think it's more celery to separate that weaponry from other procurements that are as confidential to certain special regulations. This is because there is a lot of justification that all supplies of goods and services that are controlled by the state, because they are determined by the price (such as the price of medicines and the like), are excluded, i.e. that the law is not applicable to them, and for everything else, for which the state does not determine the prices, the rules of this law would apply.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22399	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) We move to the amendment to Article 3, which was submitted jointly by MPs Nebojsa Jović, Rajko Baralić, Radojko Petrovic, Momir Radoic, Marko Culibrk, Ljubomir Mucic, Golub Rajic and Dragan Jovanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone in the name of the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) Here you are, the word has a National MP, Nebojsa Jovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22400	Gentlemen of Parliament, this amendment has been submitted before the adoption of the Budgetary System Act; the adoption of the Budgetary System Act ceases the need for this amendment, so I am withdrawing the amendment on behalf of the SPS.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22401	I find that on behalf of the applicants, the MP withdrew the amendment, and ceases to be the subject of discussion in particular. The amendment to Article 3, with correction, together were submitted by MPs Vlatko Sekulović, Rodoljub Sabic and Branko Pavlovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone in the name of the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. ) Are any of the other authorized participants in the debated word? No, I don't. ) If not, we move on to Article 4. The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nebojsa Jovic, Rajko Baralic, Radojko Petric, Momir Radoic, Marko Culibrk, Ljubomir Mucic, Golub Rajic and Dragan Jovanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone in the name of the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Jovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22402	On behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to replace the words "Minister of Finance and Economy" in Article 4(1). Why did I suggest that? The government of the Republic of Serbia, on a proposal from the finance and economy minister, determines every six months a list of orderers. This is not disputed if public procurement refers to funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget, but if it covers and spending other funds, for example, resources from compulsory social security, then it is illogical that these proposals are made by the finance minister and the economy, it is already necessary to include relevant ministries; for example, the Ministry of Health for Health Insurance Funds, the Ministry of Labour for Staff Insurance, the Ministry of Construction for Construction Works. We handed over that amendment for practical reasons.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22403	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? The word is from MP Rajko Baralic, the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22404	Mrs. Micic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment that has now been explained by our colleague Nebojsa Jovic on behalf of the SPS, makes sense. We've pointed to this moment several times today. The proposed solution to the law on public procurement raises significant questions about the autonomy of individual ministries and ministers. Putting the finance minister above all other ministers in the government is not good, in our opinion, for several reasons. It is perfectly normal for the area for which he is in charge, for example, the Minister of Education or another minister for his portfolio, among other things, to make the number of decisions necessary for the normal functioning of the portfolio for which he is in charge. In this way, one man is practically putting total power over financial potential. Not only that, it is possible for the finance minister to control his colleagues in the same sense, which is not in line with the principles that have been accepted at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22405	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate applying for a word? The word is made by MP Vojislav Seselj, president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22406	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if the amendment to Article 1 would be accepted. The law, which I submitted on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, then there might be no doubt about Article 4. Then there would be no excessive jurisdiction of the finance and economy minister to submit to the government every six months a proposal for a list of orderers. However, if the only link between the minister and the government that she submits to her every six months for approval of the list of contracting authorities, then the ministry is not under sufficient control and is not adequately controlled by the government. If the Government directly, through its apparatus, were to carry out these tasks through its administration, then the responsibility of the finance minister regarding the list of orderers would not be at all problematic. Then the Ministry of Finance would be doing one basic technical job, advertising, contracting, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22407	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate applying for a word on this amendment? The word has a finance minister, Mr. Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22408	We had a chance to discuss this in principle. As far as the organization is concerned, the secretary general is no place for such professional matters to be done. He serves the government, he prepares the government's sessions. However, he was not trained in such a way that he could do this job in a long time. That is why the administration, which is a government-level authority; it is a typical inter-resorial issue and therefore, as you have seen, has not been proposed, although this is the case in many countries, for this administration to be part of the Ministry of Finance and Economy. She's a special organization at the government level, which corresponds to the government. As far as the Ministry of Finance and Economy's role itself is concerned, it is not to command some ministries. As the rich experience has shown in us and elsewhere, it is not against the fact that, when the resolution ministries propose to the government some list of suppliers, some product lists and services that should be released according to certain tax criteria, that those whose main responsibility, by carrying out the budget, have the opportunity to go through and through, I will not say filter, but through this friendly check. The government isn't a set of ministries where everyone works on their own, but it's a collegiate body that decides both on committees and on the government's sitting itself, so there's no concern that the Ministry of Finance and Economy could do this in a vacuum, because these simples would go through with the government. Of course, the resolution ministries will also play a role in drawing up these lists, but this strengthens collegiation. As we well know, in our country, four eyes are better than two.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22409	National MPs Vlatko Sekulović, Rodoljub Sabic and Branko Pavlovic submitted a joint amendment with the amendment, which they proposed that a new title and a new member of 5a be added after Article 5. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Is the representative of the applicants applying for a word? No, I don't. ) Are any of the other authorized participants applying for a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nebojsa Jović, Rajko Baralić, Radojko Petrovic, Momir Radoic, Marko Culibrk, Ljubomir Mucic, Golub Rajic and Dragan Jovanovic. Since this amendment was adopted by the Government and the Finance Committee, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible, this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22410	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with this amendment, I object to the final position of Article 8, which says that "the client cannot rule out offers only because the bidder is based in a country with which the SR Yugoslavia does not conclude an agreement on equal treatment of domestic and foreign bidders". I ask that this position be re-formed and that it reads: "the orderer must exclude the offers offered by the bidder based in a country with which SR Yugoslavia does not conclude an agreement on equal treatment of domestic and foreign bidders". Why? First of all, we have to safeguard the dignity of the state and stop all the humiliations that we've been exposed to, especially in the past two years. Since you opened trade and co-operation with Slovenia, three times more Slovenian goods have been imported into Serbia than they have exported from Serbia to Slovenia, perhaps now even four times, perhaps my data has become obsolete in that sense. What does that mean? Is this country supposed to suffer? In my opinion, no. In my opinion, all foreign economic operators, including suppliers of certain goods and other needs of the Serbian Government, ministries, state authorities and organisations in general, should first be domestic bidders in a certain privileged position, because these are huge offers, huge money, the largest budget funds. If we so easily waste that money and order goods from abroad for the needs of the government, because it is a little cheaper than domestic goods, so we set the principle that they are equal sides and domestic suppliers, we can close all domestic companies. I know that many domestic companies have previously had privileges, that these privileges were often based on personal relationships, influences and corruption. That should be eliminated. But now that new purchases are being made, there should be greater competition among domestic suppliers, maximum competition among domestic suppliers, and only for those goods where there is no domestic supplier at all, or that domestic supplier starts blackmailing the government to make purchases abroad; so a domestic government would do business. That's how all governments in the civilized world do business. It does not occur to them to obtain foreign goods for public use where solid domestic goods exist, even if domestic goods are significantly more expensive. Well, look at the case of America, the European Union and a whole series of other countries. And here you are equating all suppliers. Even where our companies can't show up as suppliers, we accept their businesses as our suppliers, and that's where we end up humiliating ourselves. What's the point? In order to avoid this, and first of all to place domestic budgets through these domestic procurements, I ask the minister to reconsider. Perhaps in this case, and this range from debate to voting leaves enough time for this amendment to be accepted by the Government. By accepting this amendment, domestic budget money would be saved: it would go to domestic firms, it would be used to develop domestic economy. And if your goal is to force foreign companies to choke the domestics, then keep a provision like you planned, but it won't last long because you won't have anyone to charge taxes from here soon. That's the problem. If you could charge and charge from these foreign suppliers, I wouldn't mind. But here, the budget is filled exclusively or almost exclusively from domestic businesses, from their profits, from their profits... (President: I warn you on time. I've got five more minutes if the minister won't answer me. I'd leave it alone. Would you like ministers? It won't, okay. So, in this case, we also have to take care of the general social interest. The state sometimes orders some jobs that it does not need to heal certain industries. It's known in America since New Deal. The state used to invent jobs because it's much better to help economic operators by ordering jobs, by ordering goods, than by giving subsidies from time to time. I know that two or three years ago we pretty much fixed the situation at the flag. Far from "the flag" being healed, but at least partially functioning. She had state procurement, and it wasn't these 10, 15 or 20 vehicles, as Djelic ordered, but a much larger quantity of vehicles, so the government made the regulation mandatory to all state authorities and all public enterprises to obtain vehicles exclusively from the Zastava programme. If we stick to that principle, we'll find a partner to privatise the flag. If Pejo knows that our country will only be getting vehicles from the flag program for the next 10, 20 or 30 years, he will have much more interest in getting into some combination of the flag privatisation. It doesn't have to be "Pejo", it can be "Toyota", any partner can. I don't know if you've talked to anyone else in the meantime. You can have Mercedes, anyone. This strengthens the potential of our domestic company, we sell it more expensively and under better conditions, because whoever wants to get to our account factory on the market, we give him all the state supplies in advance. Of course, to modernize and program, and that's understood. All state procurement goes towards domestic companies, if you invest in our country, you are guaranteed so many and so many national annual purchases. There is the essence of this amendment and therefore so much of my commitment to accept the amendment. Since this power certainly changes soon, in a few months, let at least some law be passed that will keep the next set, to say - well, that law is good, we have to keep it. All my amendments are directed in that direction, that this law, which we have no ideological disputes, is so much improved that the next government keeps it comfortable, to say -- this law is good, there's no point in changing. But the essence of every law is to protect social interests. We have social interests to protect. The weight of this provision of yours in the law that all foreign potential suppliers are equal to domestic, even from those countries where our potential suppliers cannot count with such a degree of equality, is equal to declaring the elimination of all customs duties. Rarely, the country in the world, which are mostly small, miniature states, negligible, in expert consideration, in a professional analysis, can afford to lift customs duties. And you hereby adopt one provision that is equal to the eventual declaration of the abolition of all customs duties at the federal level. We must also protect in the sphere of these offers and the purchase of domestic suppliers. There must be exceptions. I'm not saying, where a domestic supplier only appears as an importer, so he's more expensive than buying directly from a foreign producer, that he doesn't need it. It can be rephraseed. But when it comes to domestic production goods and if it's a little more expensive than it is, it has to take precedence; because, don't forget, immediately calculate how much of this money will be returned to you in the name of tax collection, on salaries, on total income, on profits, etc., through all budget items in terms of tax collection. It all comes back and we have a healthier economy. (President: Time. Otherwise, we destroy the domestic economy, so you won’t have anyone to charge taxes from, so there won’t be any purchases in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22411	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nebojsa Jović, Rajko Baralić, Radojko Petrovic, Momir Radoic, Marko Culibrk, Ljubomir Mucic, Golub Rajic and Dragan Jovanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is the representative of the applicants reporting for a word? Here's a word from the MP Nebojsa Jovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22412	We have suggested adding a new point of view to Article 8, which would read: "A foreign bidder must also have a certificate for the product standard and meet the conditions laid down in the applicable rules and for placing goods on the market in the interest of the protection of domestic producers. Domestic and foreign bidders are equal under the conditions of reciprocity -- an agreement on equal treatment of domestic and foreign bidders." This is one of the longest members of the law, as it is determined in a special way by who can be the provider of goods, services and public procurement works. In this respect, the principle of reciprocity and protection of domestic providers under the same conditions must be ensured. The proposed solutions in the law create the conditions for foreign bidders to participate equally with domestics although they are not provided with the conditions that our bidders in their countries can participate under the same conditions, as well as that certain bidders can participate only if they meet the requirements of the classification of activity, regardless of whether they have been authorised under applicable regulations in our country for the placing of that good on the market. This is particularly dangerous in the area of the production and transport of medicines, because in the proposed way, manufacturers could place medicines on the market in our country, i.e. participate equally in public procurement, although they did not carry out the necessary registrations here and obtain the necessary marketing authorisations. A foreign tenderer must have a special certification for the product standard and meet all the conditions prescribed by the applicable rules for the placing of goods on the market and all in the interest of the protection of domestic producers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22413	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Srdjan Petrovic, Dusan Ilic (to whom the mandate of the MP has ceased), Slavoljub Matic and Arsen Kurjački submitted a joint amendment proposing that a new title and a new Article 8a be added after Article 8. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Do the co-authors report this amendment? There is a word from MP Vojislav Seselj, as president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22414	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think this amendment makes sense too, because it requires that the contracting authority cannot initiate the procurement procedure until it formally provides funds for that purpose, in the amount that is sufficient to fulfil the obligations that can arise in the public compensation process, because the authority of the state stands behind the contracting authority, and we know from practice so far that many state authorities, public institutions, institutions, have often ordered jobs that could not be paid by their own budgets. These jobs stayed unpaid for years, sometimes it was beating up with the state, and some of them were never paid. That's how the state's authority goes down. One of the measures the Ministry of Finance might have at its disposal is control -- whether one can carry out a number of orders it requires, from the aspect of the financial resources it has. That control in this law is not foreseen. Why -- because it's a huge number of subjects. There's no Ministry of Finance uninterrupted in front of all these entities, their condition, etc. He's got, he can get, looking for computer records. But can he pay enough attention to all the subjects of that species? This amendment even deserves to be accompanied by some criminal or criminal provision in the final provisions of the law, that one who orders a job for which he has no financial coverage is responsible and punished. It's so important. This would completely serious the area of procurement.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22415	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? He has the word Finance Minister, Mr Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22416	If you look at Article 24 of the same law, it says: "The client can start the procurement procedure if the procurement is provided for in the procurement plan and if the funds are provided for in the budget of the Republic of Serbia, territorial autonomy etc." So, in this law, there is already this provision, and additionally this material is regulated in the Budgetary System Act; because there will be procurement that needs to be spent for years. So there is a multi-annual plan that you will see for the first time when it comes to the 2003 budget agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22417	The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic, Milos Lukic, Petar Petrovic and Adam Urosevic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Petar Petrovic, representative of the amendment's applicants.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22418	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Assembly Club of the Soviet Union has submitted an amendment requesting in Article 12 that the deadline for keeping documents, as foreseen in the draft law, be moved from three years of age to five years, because we believe that the area of public procurement is a very complex and responsible job and that the documentation should be kept for more than three years. On the other hand, we believe that when one electoral period is over and a new power comes, since perhaps in the first year such large purchases are carried out, and when three years pass, the documentation can be removed and that they cannot be verified afterwards. So we think that it should be five years and that nothing affects the purpose and purpose of the law and we even think it's more appropriate. That is why I suggest, both to Mr. Minister and to you, that you adopt this amendment at the time of the vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22419	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The Government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 13 of the amendment. Since this amendment has been adopted by the Financial Committee and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MP Vojislav Seselj submitted to Article 14 of the amendment. The government did not accept this amendment, the Finance Committee did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is submitted by the amendment, MP Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22420	Article 14 of which I also submitted an amendment to testify that it was not written by an ordinary legal language, a legal manner of expression. Because it implies something, so instead of the first position in Article 14, which would read "the offer must be given in Serbian", and only then proceed with the second position, that the client can do it in a foreign language, in certain circumstances, under certain conditions, etc., it implies something, and only talks about exceptions. That's not what legal language allows. The legal language must first say what it may seem to you as laymen - the offer must be given in Serbian, and then to elaborate what part of the offer may be in a foreign language, especially if it is technical documentation, quality labels and the like, and under what conditions. That is why this amendment makes sense, and it doesn't cost you much to accept it, because this amendment would exclude only points 2 and 3 which are not so important, but in the present attitude 3 is also envisaged to translate part of the offer into Serbian. The question arises if the part originally submitted in a foreign language is not translated into Serbian. Everything must be in Serbian. Of course, part is submitted in a foreign language, for some professional purposes in the evaluation process.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22421	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 17th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic, Milos Lukic, Petar Petrovic and Adam Urosevic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does a representative of the applicants of the amendment want a word? There is a word from MP Milos Lukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22422	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 17 of this Act reads: "The client will refuse to offer if there is credible evidence available that the bidder has given or promised a gift in monetary or non-financial form, offered employment or any other benefit, a matter or service whose value can be expressed in money, as an attempt to influence the operation, decision or the further course of the procurement process. The contracting authority is obliged to notify the tenderers referred to in Article 1, as well as the public procurement administration and to record it in the procurement procedure's written form." It is clear from the very content of this article that these are anti-corruption rules, or according to the Soviet Union, that this should not enter into the text of this law, it is purely criminal-legal matter governed by the Criminal Law. Secondly, as a result of such an irregularity, it is envisaged to inform who tried to do this work and inform the public procurement administration. We believe that this is not enough and we believe that public procurement should be much greater and much more serious. That is why we have proposed to delete this member, but not as a protection for those who are incorrect, but as a measure of strengthening responsibility. On the other hand, we believe that this proposed solution provides a great opportunity for unfair competition. In what way? If you have multiple bidders, we are sure there will be attempts to make one of those whose offer has not passed, for reasons that are objective nature, means that price, quality, deadline, etc. they do not satisfy, the abuse of this member of the law warrants that the second bidder did so and that, and it will be very difficult to establish the material truth in this case. It will be very difficult, if someone has already tried, promised or done all of this to this member; it must mean that other authorities, the prosecution, the SUP, and so on. And don't stop at that. For this reason, the Soviet Union proposes to delete Article 17. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22423	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22424	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, in Article 17, we have a very good first position and a very bad second position. The first position states that the contracting authority will refuse if there is credible evidence available that the bidder has given or promised a present or former employee a gift in cash or non-money form, offered employment or any other benefit, a matter or service whose value can be expressed in money, as an attempt to influence the decision or the further course of the procurement procedure. It's a provision that's hard to say. After that provision, the question arises - what next? There's something here that's meant to be. Since it's a matter of bribery and corruption, and it's regulated by Criminal Law, it means prosecution. But then there is no point 2 which it says - the contracting authority has also given the refusal of the offer and the grounds for refusal, in writing to inform the bidder referred to in Article 1, as well as the Public Procurement Authority, and to record it in the procurement procedure documentation. The obligation to report to an incompetent authority is prescribed here, and it is sufficient in the record of the procurement solution to make a note that this has occurred and to attach a copy of the statement of the workers whose bribery has been attempted. It's pointless to formulate this obligation. If it is necessary to formulate the obligation, then it is much better to read as it stands in my amendment: "The orderer is obliged to notify immediately, in the cases referred to in Article 1 of this Article, the authorities of the prosecution and other competent authorities which will take the law of the prescribed measure against such entities." That makes a lot more sense. As you stated in paragraph 2, and there is no additional attitude 3 that would further regulate the procedure, it turns out that the only sanctions some would have been informed, so the bidder and the Public Procurement Authority would be informed. Their notification doesn't have the power of sanctions, and it's pointless. They will be informed from the newspapers when the offerer of bribes is judged at the end of the day; they are neither an organ of persecution. Instead of anyone who has come to this information, such as the Criminal Code owes every citizen who finds out that a crime has been committed and who committed the crime to report immediately. It would be unnecessary, but yours is more unnecessary. What do you mean, it's not? First, the first person to find out that a crime has been committed must report, not informing his superior, and he's not in the army either. And in the army every officer and officer, any rank, as soon as he finds out about the crime, he's obliged to file a report, not to inform the superior command, let alone the state administration. It's an indisputable crime, isn't it? In the event of an indisputable criminal offence, there is a obligation to report to the authority responsible for the prosecution of criminal offences, and these are not the authorities of the administration that you state. Chuck, they can be a brake in prosecution, that it's thought it's over. They've been notified, it's written down, we're moving on. Unfortunately, in our practice, we have a whole series of cases that criminal acts are covered up in this way. It was known, though it was known no one should answer. It's not enough sanctions to find out, to be informed, but to be punished by law. I do not insist that my amendment be accepted as much as I insist that your position 2 be deleted because it is pointless. There's nothing to be notified of. At that moment, an internal act may commit to informing the senior authority of the administration. It is a matter of special administrative acts, i.e. general sublegal administrative acts. It doesn't matter to this law at all. It is important for this law to prevent corruption in this area. Corruption is prevented by anyone who tries bribery cannot get a job. You've finished this law. It is your duty under the second law to report to the competent authorities for prosecution. If you accept my amendment, now I have those other five minutes, you're potentialing something that already exists to you as an obligation under the second law; I even mean under federal criminal law, but it doesn't matter, I may be wrong. So, according to federal criminal law, it is not at all disputed that something envisaged by federal criminal law as a criminal offence and where the obligation to report is prescribed is also potential in this law, with a very specific case; but do not make any misunderstandings with those who will in practice interpret the law, so that they consider that they have completed their obligations completely by informing them. You know how state bureaucracy works. The lower administrative authorities are inclined to write a large number of acts, deliveries, notifications, reports, etc., but the senior authorities of the administration are very reluctant to read these reports. You don't read enough. We have seen this, Minister Djelic, in the application of the Extraprofit Act; on the side that the law is unconstitutional and we have seen the number of debtors you have reduced to that application of the law. We've seen who you've ignored in the application of that law. You're here for the Constitutional Court judge to choose a woman who got two apartments: first of the federal government 90 squares, then 120 squares of the Danube Insurance, and she's nowhere on the list of extraprofessors, and you chose her as judge of the Constitutional Court. You have only made certain people potent and sought vengeance on them, and if you have passed such a law, then apply it to all that it applies to.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22425	People's MP, please return to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22426	This is a theme and dialogue with the minister. You didn't warn the minister when he came into my word. I'm responding to his incursion.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22427	I didn't hear it, you covered it. I can't see him, and I didn't hear him.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22428	So that's the point. We agree with the need to curb bribery and corruption in this area. This area is traditionally filled with bribery and corruption, various privileges, but the law must be passed in one perfect way, so that it does not constantly suffer any changes and additions, as we have the case with a whole series of legal texts. We didn't even think to consult experts, nor legal technicians, nor language experts, etc. All of this should be remembered in the writing phase of the legal text.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22429	The Minister of Finance, Mr Bozidar Djelic, called for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22430	I can say that for the last 16 months, this is the first time that the amendment promoter in the discussion itself admits that the amendment is not complete, as the amendment promoter said. This is unnecessary, because the matter here is governed by a criminal procedural law at federal level, so this amendment is not necessary at all. As far as attitude 2 is concerned, he is here, and that was a good observation, and in many of our governing bodies, the internal arrangement does not predict enough in the same way some procedures, and since this is a very important matter here, it is required that they act according to attitude 2. Because, and maybe it's a connection to a previous speaker who said, if this could become some kind of machination, the possibility of someone shutting someone down just by saying that someone offered him a bribe once or heard someone else on the commission offer a bribe. In order to avoid these distortions of application of this law, this Article 2 which requires the purchaser to collect sufficient documentation, to deliver in writing to the higher authority and public procurement administrations a comprehensive documentation, so that it can then proceed according to that criminal-processing law and that prosecution is started. So it's a dam against some bad aspects, credentials or some such phenomena that are not necessary in the application of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22431	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) In Section 2 and Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22432	With my amendment, I ask that article 18 be completely deleted. Why? Because Article 18 reads: "The Public Procurement Administration is educated as a special organisation for the performance of professional activities in the field of public procurement in order to provide conditions for the economic, efficient and transparent use of public procurement and to encourage the competitiveness and equality of the bidders in public procurement procedures (hereinafter: Administration). National administration regulations shall apply to the work and organisation of the Administration. "You see, by the nature of things, this administration could be tied to the Ministry of Finance, but you have perceived it as a relatively independent administration. Since it is an independent administration, it must also be regulated by the Government Act. The administration is somewhat lower than the ministry, but it has many responsibilities like the ministry. The administration is even above the secretariats in some hierarchical determination of the authorities of the state administration. That administration is becoming a paraminist. It's not the ministry in the right sense of words, but it's almost the ministry. He's a little short on being a ministry. That's the point and you had to avoid it. You'll have to change the Government Act if you insist on this. Earlier, Minister Djelic said the government's general secretariat was unable to carry out these tasks. It's not based on the current concept of work. Look at you in which country in the world the General Secretariat of the Government has as little jurisdiction as we do, that it's just preparing government sessions and nothing else. Preparation of the government's session, carrying out other auxiliaries, the government's rolling stock, employee employment, all of these are lower-ranking responsibilities. The General Secretariat must have much more jurisdiction. Why? Because it strengthens the direct government's bureaucracy and narrows the power of red tape from individual ministries. There is always a dilemma where there will be a state administration's focus, whether on the independence of the ministries or on the greater power of the government as the highest collective body of the administration. I am a supporter of this second concept, that the government has much more power than the ministries and that is why the government has a stronger administration. This is an area where it's ideally possible to achieve it. The Government's administration will be strengthened by having these powers that you foresee as the jurisdiction of a special administration. In essence, nothing changes from the aspect of achieving the objective of this law, but important things change in the organisation of the state administration, in its rational reform, in order to better achieve constitutional competences. Where the ministries are too independent, the government doesn't work well. Where it happens, like we do, that the Prime Minister argues publicly with ministers or the ministers argue publicly with each other, it's the best signal that the government doesn't work well. Something rotted in the state of Denmark. However, if the government has a stronger administration and the administration of the government is stronger than the administration of any ministry other than the interior and finance ministries, then the government as a collective body strengthens compared to each individual ministry. Why is this so important? Probably in the perspective, it will hardly be possible for only one party to form a government in general. It is likely that an even longer period of time will be necessary to form coalition governments. Coalition governments operating as the Serbian government do not have the necessary degree of unity to achieve their constitutional function, as the government is built as a set of ministers holding sessions in certain time periods and deciding on the basis of a proposal from resolution ministries. In a number of cases, decision-making comes down to mere formalities.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22433	Time. Are you going to use the next five minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22434	I've got five minutes left. As such, the government needs to strengthen its jurisdiction, so that the ministries can feel power over themselves. I know from the past. It's good to learn in historical experiences. You haven't shown your willingness to learn from anyone's experiences, and that's your fault. However, because of the public, I present this experience. The budget was adopted and there was no possible payment of the total amount foreseen for one annual budget. Then it depended most on the will of the restoring minister, which the ministry will have higher and lower percentages of use. In that case, the government had little opportunity to intervene. Simply, when one minister asks for it, when another minister asks for it; so the president or vice-president of the government asks why there is no, the minister in charge of finance settles his shoulders and says - no, so there is no. The matter must be corrected, especially in a coalition government that has more coalition partners, where greater party power means greater privileges at the disposal of budget funds. In the area of procurement of this abuse, it is possible that the state body carrying out these procurements is not directly the Government, if this is done by some administration that is a minority al-mari with all ministries, and is closest to the Ministry of Finance. There is another tendency, which has long been recorded in the science of administration and administrative law, which is the tendency that every executive head seeks to expand, increase and strengthen its powers. One who has a greater influence on the government as a collective body and a greater influence on parliament, which often does not think about the laws it is voting, has the opportunity to strengthen its powers, extend them to the monster dimensions. He who has no such power and influence, not only does he not extend his powers, but they will be constrained to him. What's the cure for that? The cure for that phenomenon (there is no water, I don't know why, you've noticed, and I miss it very much; the water only spills in cold days when it's not necessary). What's the point here and I end up with: strengthening the government administration avoids these tendencies. The government's authority is being strengthened as a collective organ. It is no longer just the authority of the Prime Minister as an individual, but of a collective body. From experience in the state administration, we know that collective organs are much more susceptible to control, both internal and external, than in-house organs. The collective authorities show a lower desire to extend their competence, to usurp other people's responsibilities, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22435	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate applying for a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22436	I asked my amendment to delete Article 19, which reads: "The administration performs the tasks relating to: 1) participation in the preparation of regulations in the field of public procurement; 2) providing consulting services to the contracting authorities and tenderers; 3) organising training staff; 4) co-operation with foreign institutions and experts in the field of public procurement; 5) publication, distribution, etc. You just haven't prescribed that every morning the members of that administration have to take a bath, put on a suit, come to their office and close the door behind them, etc. You've entered a small intestine without need. Many of these jobs are entirely understood and do not need to be prescribed by law. Why would it be prescribed by law? Why would the law prescribe organization and training of personnel? Of course, it is understood, if there is a need for training, they will train, and if there is no need, they will not. Why co-operation with foreign institutions and experts in the areas of public procurement should be prescribed. Of course, cooperation on exchanges of experiences, correspondence, mutual visits, where appropriate, etc., maintenance perhaps seminars. It's all meant to be. Why do you burden the legal text without any need? He says the publication and distribution of relevant professional literature. What kind of professional literature is that? Literature from the area of public procurement. You economists, do you know of any doctoral dissertation in the field of public procurement, does it have any in us; may have master's work, I hear here that there are some new magistrates, Chado, are there any magistrates in the area? I haven't heard of doctoral dissertation. Now watch this. Preparation and participation in the development of criteria for the assessment of individual types of costs in public funds users. Look, this is what experts with medium professional training do, this job. You're just going to draw who's going to sit in the office, the furniture schedule in the office and everything. Why overbook the legal text of something that is unnecessary. Look, this isn't the area of law, that's why I'm telling you. I don't know who your government expert service is, (Minister, what I'm saying is more important than Ceda Jovanovic, Minister, Minister, won't follow me). Minister, this is by nature not a matter regulated by law. This matter can be regulated by a sublegal act. It can also be passed by a rule that will be adopted by the government or by the head of this administration, if you insist on the administration. Milka would have predicted that by the Constitution. Of course, such an approach is possible. We also had a Cardelian constitution with 300, 400 members, as many as he had. This doesn't go into the law. There will be something new in practice that you didn't predict, you're going to change the law. That's ridiculous. What do you say, Minister? The minister mentions some defense, I didn't hear him correctly, did you hear him well, I don't know what the minister is talking about. He's obviously not well-informed, and he's not even competent for legal matter, so he shows up with this law. Look further, what else is foreseen here: preparing a unique basis for establishing a tenderer's records and their financial credits. With this law? Why would you do that? I'm sure, since I'm not an expert in this area, I wouldn't have guessed what could happen in practice if you'd missed many of these individual jobs. It's natural you missed it. And especially, if this text was written by people who were never directly involved in procurement. They don't know what kind of problems they're facing in practice. It will be the experts in the sublegal acts to regulate, just the people who have experience. The one who wisely and professionally works the text of the law always makes sure that the text of the law does not penetrate the constitutional matter, which is already regulated and uncut until the Constitution is changed, but makes sure that it does not enter into the matter that naturally belongs to the sublegal form of regulation. In this way, the difference between laws and sublegal acts is lost. The powers of the basic branches of the authorities are also mixed, the legislative authority is in parliament, but the sublegal general acts are adopted by the authorities of the administration.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22437	Are you using the next five minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22438	Yeah, and I'll be done soon. I won't go all the way. Why are you here denying the authority's right and obligation to bring these sublaws? Why would the legislator get involved in these technical issues? We will evaluate your success here, your respect for the law. Of course, if you don't get us all out of the O.R. first. As for the technique of your work, why do we interfere? You may need to hire in that administration all people up to 1,60 m or 1,65 m, and you may be bothered by those above 1.90 m etc. It's all your business. The legislative authority does not interfere with this, but neither do you to burden the legislative authority with a matter that is below the level of jurisdiction of the legislative authority.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22439	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The Government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 19 of the amendment. Having adopted this amendment by the Financial Committee, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Members of the 19th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Petrovic, Dusan Ilic (with whom the mandate of the MP has ceased), Slavoljub Matic and Arsen Kurjački. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Are any of the authorised participants in the debate applying for a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Dragan Markovic, Milos Lukic, Petar Petrovic and Adam Urosevic submitted the 19th amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The word is made by MP Petar Petrovic, representative of the amendment applicants to Article 19. It's a bill of law.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22441	The Honored Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, the Soviet Union has tabled an amendment to Article 19 of the Bill and proposes that Article 2 in the mentioned article be changed; otherwise, Article 2 states: "The Government submits once a year a report to the Government on public procurement in the previous year, with a proposal for a measure". The Soviet Union suggests that the position reads as follows: "The government submits a report to the Government on public procurement, with a proposal for a quarterly measure in the previous period, and to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia once a year in the previous year." The reason for this is, among other things, that about 50% of domestic gross products are shown as consumption of the public sector, so it is necessary for the government to be more frequently informed about the situation in this area and, necessarily, the National Assembly. What did we want? We wanted the government to receive a quarterly report from the Administration on public procurement, not to deliver a report to the government only in December of the month, or at the end of that calendar year. At the same time, we believe that the National Assembly must be informed at least once a year of all public procurement. This is another proof that the executive power is the legislative authority and that it has put the legislative authority under its control. For this reason, we propose to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22442	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic, Milos Lukic, Petar Petrovic and Adam Urosevic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? The word has a folk MP Milos Lukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22443	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, amendment to Article 20. The Soviet Union is proposing that Section 2 be deleted. Article 20 reads: "The award of public procurement contracts takes place in an open procedure. " (That's the first attitude. ) The second point is: "The award of public procurement contracts can be carried out both in restrictive procedure and in the procedure of guessing. "If this possibility remains that procurement can be done in a restrictive procedure and in a guessing process, the basic meaning of this law is lost. I can say a few more words on this subject: when it comes to the award of a contract in a restrictive procedure - these are the circumstances when the contracting authority recognises the qualification of certain tenderers, when it comes to a certain number of firms that can carry out such a service, when it comes to special conditions and those types of services where a qualification is required, where funds are needed, etc. This is the situation where such a service is possible from a small number of bidders. What does that mean? This means that the government, or one who collects offers for public procurement, practically knows in advance who these persons are. Given that our country is in a period of transition, since we expect significant fluctuations to occur, that private capital is engaged in areas that are interesting for public procurement, it is certain that someone who is ready and able to meet these criteria can not be covered by this procedure. This is not naive at all, since it is high value business and companies that are willing to engage large own resources in providing these services, i.e. to carry out these works or to carry out other obligations. Also, when it comes to the procedure of guessing without prior publication, except for the honorable exception, perhaps the acquisition of weapons and other similar means, it is difficult to find an excuse for this number of exceptions. Practically, this is how the whole law is relativized. I would just like to point out that in this particular area, we have a whole process of further and too many explanations and a large number of members that are practically unnecessary, which only complicate the text of the law. We therefore consider that this amendment should be adopted by the Soviet Union, that Article 20(2) should be deleted. At the same time, I would like to say that, as a result of the adoption of this amendment, the need for members 22 and 23 to be deleted, so I will not report for these amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22444	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) The 22nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic, Milos Lukic, Petar Petrovic and Adam Urosevic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? No, I don't. ( ) Does any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Vlatko Sekulović, Rodoljub Sabic and Branko Pavlovic together submitted to the 22nd amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? No, I don't. ( ) Does any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic, Milos Lukic, Petar Petrovic and Adam Urosevic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? No, I don't. ( ) Does any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22445	You're passing the whole law to make the area of public procurement, as you DOS say, "transparent." Then throw that "transparentity" under your feet with one single member. This exemption from Article 23, which states that "the contracting authority may award a contract in a guessing procedure without prior publication, if, for: 1) objective reasons or for reasons related to the protection of exclusive rights, only certain suppliers of goods, service providers or contractors can fulfil the procurement; 2) exceptional circumstances, i.e. due to unforeseen events, could not take place within the time limits set for open and restrictive proceedings". As regards point 2, the procedure must first be carried out to see whether, in the event of an emergency situation or an unforeseen event, it was not possible to act within the deadlines set for an open and restrictive procedure, and then to draw the conclusion whether or not its subjective responsibility exists. If there's a subjective responsibility, this is a typical case where there's got to be a procedure for damages. He who, by his inaction or by his wrong act, unwittingly, caused the damage of this species must bear responsibility! You don't care about that. You only care about this exception; who will have the possibility of interpreting and using this exception - you yourself, when it suits you; the law does not matter at all, you will go to a direct contract. We had a case of this asphalting where the Minister herself in public denied that she did what she did and later it turned out she did, but her head didn't hurt! (Glass - eggs. I don't know what it's about. Djelic, let these emissaries of yours mention the eggs again. What's the matter? Explain that egg question once. Do you have extra eggs or lack? It must be short as it puts so much pressure on you. I ask points 1 and 2 to be deleted because the process of guessing without prior publication leaves the possibility of major abuses, corruption. There are abuses of the greatest. What happens in practice: to play the competition, to play the bidding, to publish its maintenance, and actually not to be published because the ad was hidden. In earlier practice, the ad was published in newspapers that no one reads in order to show up as small a circle of interested persons as possible for participation in bids, competitions, etc. Now, what you have previously been able to do only after a failed competition introduce as a rule in this exception, where it is no longer necessary to try with a competition, or with a bidding, etc. rather than leaving a wider space for interpretation of whether emergency circumstances have occurred, which are exceptional circumstances! Minister, in article 19, you explained precisely to the "slight intestines" things you didn't have to do. Here, if an exception is necessary, you have to explain that exception to the point. You didn't do it. You'd better give up that exception. Any situation in practice can be undermined under the conditions provided for in this way of procurement, and the SRS advocates the full public in the area of public procurement. It advocates the full competition of all potential entities, for sound competition, and not the continuation of one practice that is very negative, which you extend in Article 23.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22446	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? The word is from MP Rajko Baralic, the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22447	Mrs. Komic, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, although, unfortunately, almost no one has listened to what Mr. Seselj said, the amendment that the SRS has submitted makes sense - because the law exists except for the public procedure and restrictively, there is the possibility of free guessing, there is a qualification as one of the ways for someone to take part in the public procurement for the interest of one of the service or goods suppliers; and, if this amendment was not accepted, there would be the possibility that those who make decisions on the choice of bidders and suppliers would have discretionary rights that are not in line with the declared principle of transparency. I speak extremely well-meaningly. A lot of energy has been spent to make the bill, and then with only a few members, practically everything that is claimed forward is relativized and the Public Procurement Administration is brought forward, in a way that is not in line with what is the fundamental intensity of the Law, in a position to make choices of service providers or goods, contrary to the interests and basic principles that the biller himself advocates. The SPS MPs will support the amendment that Dr Vojislav Seselj has just explained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22448	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? Please, the word is by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the DOS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22449	Mrs. Komic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is a very important member of the law, and it seems to me that this amendment initiative, in fact, has been derified by that function which has often been criticised as a lack of this law. Namely, what are the objective reasons why we can distance ourselves from an open, restrictive procedure, which are extraordinary circumstances that can lead us to this kind of behavior. By erasing the first and second positions of Article 23 of this Law, we would in fact put ourselves in a paradoxical situation, that because of the flood or earthquakes by law, we would make it impossible for ourselves to act in these extraordinary circumstances in the direction provided for by this law, but through the respect of such an objective and unpredictable argument. So, emergency circumstances are the ones I mentioned -- earthquakes, fires, floods, the need to supply food to a large number of residents. You don't expect the government to call tenders at this point, so that it expects offers, so that it can discuss these offers, but it must react effectively, adequately in these circumstances; but, the foreign administration that controls, in order not to happen with those funds, what happened with the funds of the Solidarity Fund. Because even then, it was important to help those who had suffered, say, from earthquakes in the Colubary County, but it didn't help them. The funds have been misused. So that concern is justified and she would actually deny us if she didn't have these roles of the Public Procurement Authority, in Section 2. In the position of 1st objective reasons concerning the protection of exclusive rights: The Stock Reserve Directorate shall open a tender for the purchase of cereals; the price of our cereals shall be 7.5 dinars and on the stock market in Constanta shall be 6 dinars, in Argentina and less. Do we need to protect our economy and our market by buying that grain that, with this attitude, gives us the right to proposer, or will the next market logic destroy our economic producers and thus do exactly what you respected for us, as a criticism, during the debate in principle. So these two positions of Article 23 are not an introduction to abuse, but they're respecting reality that can't be strictly defined, at any moment, by very precise laws, but it would be a problem if they didn't exist. So if we want to respect the tender procurement, then we have to say that there are situations where it is not realistically implemented, when it is necessary to act very quickly, to be efficient, but not to make a mistake. The mistake is not made because there are professionals who are exclusively in the business of controlling the public procurement process and making public funds available; in paragraph 1, there is protection of certain rights. We are for liberalisation, we are for destroying the monopoly, but not in a way that would destroy our economy. These are the paradoxes and extremes that we have to reconcile if we want to get on our feet. I think it's good to leave these two attitudes, by agreeing that if this administration didn't have an open space for manipulation -- money doesn't recognize politics or character -- and that in advance everyone is suspicious if the power of control is excluded. Control is needed, it exists through the Administration and it is certainly not the kind of control that has been shown to us previously through criticism of this unargued and very bad attitude towards the economy and through, apparently, our disregard for everything that exists in these areas, which is authentically ours. Therefore, attitudes are needed and they must remain in this article.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22450	The word is made by MP Vojislav Seselj, president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22451	When it comes to goods that the state may need in the case of natural disasters, floods, fires, droughts, wars, etc. All these goods must be enough in the state stock reserves, all of them; it has to be, otherwise it's the government's fault it's not there. The stock reserves weren't empty, that's not true. They weren't empty. Maybe she emptied the government from October to December. While I was the vice president of that government, the stock reserves weren't empty, that's not true. Don't say that. You may have emptied them in those two months, so Djelic found nothing. Second, as far as an earthquake in the Colubary County is concerned, you talk a lot about it. Come on, file a report - where you found the abuse of funds, and then file a criminal case against all those who invested money in anything other than raising broken down and repairing damaged objects. Well, ask this one, ask that one, but you had two years at your disposal to investigate it thoroughly. I know there have been abuses somewhere, but you have the instruments of the state to expose all these abuses. Why aren't you doing this? Answer why you're not doing it? What's the reason? Where was the abuse done? I know some of them built houses, and they didn't have their houses torn down by earthquakes before, or other buildings. (Lowers from the O.R.: Is it a dog or a house? ) It is obvious that this parliamentary majority is long aware that it is soon losing power, as it is no longer a work of parliament that is of interest. They never cared about that. Now, as far as all possible abuses are concerned, there are courts, and whoever abused the money should go to jail. If the money was for repairing the facilities or for building the destroyed ones, and it's used for something else, there's clean stuff. As far as wheat is concerned, every European state wants to have enough domestic production, each, at the moment. Last year, i.e. last year, the ransom price of our wheat was higher for a dinar or half a dinar, almost no one recognized the first class, you recognized the second class, that was 6.5 dinars, and on the world market the price is about six dinars! That's right! (louds from the O.R.: What about TV tax? You're just about to introduce a TV tax. I saw it in the Broadcasting Law proposal. I saw that; 20 times bigger than the one that existed at the time I was vice president of the government, 20 times the tax. (Lowers from the O.R.: 10 times bigger.) Only 10 times bigger? We'll see?- I'm sorry. You pulled the law, I know why you pulled it. It doesn't matter, to explain this matter of wheat. You see, half the dinars were more expensive than the price on the world market. However, every smart state is trying to protect its producers, so one year the ransom will pay more than it is on the world market, but next year, when there is a weak birth in the world, when the price on the world market is much higher, it will compensate for the loss. But the state can't give up wheat. That's what our concept disagreement is. You think if wheat is in Argentina, in America, who's still making wheat, Australia, who's still producing, and Ukraine, of course, if there's wheat cheaper than ours, that we need to stop domestic production, so buy cheaper! Now, for that very reason, here's now the reputable Minister of Climate, I think we need to pay for something more expensive to preserve production. Well, it's the same, Minister, with all these other producers. You put them in equal status with foreign companies. Where we have domestic production, it's smarter for the state to pay something more expensive than to get abroad and help someone else's economy and destroy their own. This is the fundamental conceptal difference.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22452	He has the word National MP Cedomir Jovanovic (a replica about misreading).
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22453	Dear Mrs. Comic, the Honorable Presidency, only two clarifications: as regards these extraordinary rights, which we respect and respect, so today we led during the afternoon debate on tenders and the government's relationship to the MUP, the support that the MUP enjoys on our part, and that dilemma -- can a good cop do quality work in "South Florida" or "pejo"? We have decided to "pejo", but at the same time through the performance of the finance minister, we are familiar with the government's very clear determination to hire a factory from Kragujevac for all other needs, as a supplier. This is exactly where we talk about these exclusive rights that should be respected in certain situations, should be protected. So when the financial police go to work, they go to "South Florida," and when criminal or traffic police go to work, they go to "pejo". It's two paradoxes we're still trying to get on our feet. As for these abuses that we are constantly talking about, I agree that a congregation speaker is no place to determine the truth, but it is a place to bring facts. Let the truth and determination of the validity of our arguments be dealt with by the courts and the prosecution. The financial resources from the solidarity funds were not spent on the Kolubar County case; in Osijek pools were created, and your party made a radical home in Valjevo, in Tešnar. As for the funds from the Solidarity Fund and the factory from Kragujevac, which is also very often taken public, from the Assembly's pay phone, and as a rule these are the views of representatives of the opposition who were once in a concrete position to change something there, funds from the Solidarity Fund intended to revitalise the collapsed flag were transferred as donations to your party's account. So maybe the flag had an interest. It's not our place to determine, maybe they had some special interest, so they helped you. I'm just telling you that there have been these irregularities and we're not the ones who need to determine it, but we're not the ones who are going to keep that quiet. The exclusive rights are exactly those examples I cited. So can the wheat, so can the sunflower, but can the "South" car, in a situation where we want that factory to stand on its feet. And this second extraordinary circumstance is a circumstance that cannot be foreseen by law, a circumstance in which those standard principles of tender procurement, which apply to all other situations, cannot be applied. There's so much [[Employee Vojislav Seselj seeks the right to reply.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22454	You have no right to a replica. The presentation of the MP is a replica based on misreading of your presentation and you do not have the right to reply. You don't have the right to reply to the Rules of Procedure. I would ask all MPs to listen carefully to the president's arguments. Therefore, MP Cedomir Jovanovic has been given the right to reply on the basis of the wrong interpretation in your presentation. According to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, there is no right to replicate, so this round ends. You have another amendment, so you won't be denied your right, in general. National MP Vojislav Seselj submitted to the 25th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There is a word from the peoples MP Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22455	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm sorry that Cedomir Jovanovic came out because I have to deny the first false things he said here. The SRS had its own building in Valjev, owned by someone good in ownership, and that building was torn down in an earthquake like the rest of many buildings. It's a fact, and on that basis, it's partly financed by the reconstruction of that building, never entirely, only partially. You know what's true, you both know Milk, just like that. Furthermore, the SRS received about 120 or 128 thousand dinars on account of Tomislav Nikolic being a member of the Management Board, and refused to receive a monthly application as a member of the Management Board. How many of you who are members of the board of directors, that refuses? And after a certain period of his rejection, the flag paid some of that money to the party. It doesn't suck, it's completely clean. But Cedomir Jovanovic should explain why all serious asphalting jobs in Serbia are being obtained by the Surcin mafia. You here compare 128 thousand, which is paid through an account, which Djelic would say - transparently, which is nothing hidden and for which there is a basis, and even if there is no such basis, the social enterprise may also have the right to sponsor the party if it is such a small amount. Why not? Wait, are the parties only sponsoring from abroad, like yours, from the American budget and SOROŠ, from what?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22456	I ask MP Vojislav Seselj to return to the subject of the amendment to Article 25.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22457	Now, I'm going back to Article 25, and I'm just potentialing this question to explain how the Surf Mafia got these multimillion-dollar asphalting jobs. Wherever you turn, the highway, the Ibar Highway, only the Surcin Mafia is paved, they have no experience in that area. We made eggs...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22458	People's MP, I warn you of your obligation to deal with the subject and not to present facts that are not allowed for the assembly speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22459	No, these are all facts that can be proven in every place and you know for a fact that they are true. As for Article 25, the most problematic position is this: "At the proposal of the Minister of Finance and Economy, the Government sets out criteria for education of the Commission for Public Procurement". You first educate the public procurement department, then the commission. You didn't bother to explain the difference between the administration and the commission. You can't call something public procurement administration, so you can trust her with purely technical work, administrative affairs -- it's management, she manages, she has an administrative apparatus, she's somewhat lower than the ministry in many things, but she's making it with the ministries and then you're still forming a public procurement commission. Why this commission, what's its purpose? You have the Government's Committee on Business and Finance, what special commission? That's the point. So, you're just increasing the unnecessary number of state authorities: you're facing their responsibilities and you're putting them in a position to overlap their powers and who's going to grab some of these responsibilities, and who's going to be left without jurisdiction depends on personal influence, power, authority, group influence, and not legal norm.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22460	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? If not, we move on to Article 25, to which the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Petrovic, Dusan Ilic (who ceased the mandate of the MP), Slavoljub Matic and Arsen Kurjački. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? They're not present. Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? If not, we move on to Article 27. The 27th Amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22461	With this amendment, I ask that Article 27 be deleted only point 6 which says that the competitive open procedure documentation and the second phase of the restrictive procedure contain, among other things, a "contract model". Why would this competitive documentation contain a model contract? First of all, in this case, type contracts are usually applied, type-approval contracts which can be applied by nature to almost all purchases, not specific contracts only for one competition under its competition documentation. Secondly, if the public procurement administration and the procurement commission are formed, it is absolutely unclear what these administrative organisations will do if the finance and economy minister decides on everything. Why do they even exist? If the finance and economics minister is going to decide, closer to prescribing mandatory elements of the competition documentation, then this state body whose formation you predicted and called it the state administration doesn't deserve to be called the state administration. The special authority of the state administration is conceived, on the one hand, as a couple with all other ministries. It's not entirely early, but it's almost equal around here, and then the finance minister and the economy nearer prescribes mandatory elements of competitive documentation. This is where the real galley matheas happens. Why not regulate this administration, if the administration already exists, or that all these competencies are prescribed by the finance minister, and then there is no need for a special administration, but rather an existing management of the Ministry of Finance, perhaps strengthened by a larger number of officials, but not a special administration; an ideal government that has a minimum number of ministers and it works best. The awakening of the number of ministers and other authorities of the administration is always complicated by the work of the administration, and when the number of ministers increases, and we know from earlier practices, we know from current practice, are usually about some political agreements, not real needs. Then why should the minister interfere in this way, to prescribe mandatory elements of competition documentation. If the minister should have jurisdiction there, then his jurisdiction is in control, not in the making of elements of competition or competition documents, or to prescribe some sublegal act that would regulate it, not that he is now mixed in each competition. Because by the letter of this provision, the minister would have to prescribe these elements for every contest. Why not the contract model, what would the minister prescribe? I guess the model contract is a matter of profession -- and it's going to be the clerks at the Ministry. It's important to commit to the essence, not to the model contract. Maybe today one of the models will be in charge, and tomorrow another one will be in charge. Maybe you'll introduce a shortcut for those models, maybe you'll print those models as typewriters and sell in bookshops. What does that mean? This whole series of nonsense in the first place is exorcising and the law is unnecessarily burdened.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22462	The word has a finance minister in the Serbian government, Mr Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22463	This afternoon, we had several elements for the anthology of parliamentaryism. One MP had just begun to explain one amendment, and as he explained it, I agreed that he was out of line, because everything that was written in that amendment was regulated by criminal-price law at the federal level, and it was self-defunct. We have now seen that this MP has begun to explain (Article 27).), point 6 and while he was talking, he saw that he made a mistake and that I was the amendment to the story of attitude 6, so he moved faster or better to attitude 6 and then he made a mistake again. Of course, someone who has well questioned the law sees that in no case is talking here about the Ministry of Finance and Economy entering the whole world or, in any case, the specific public procurement. There's only talk here about some regulations; which, of course, is, through further discussion by the one who just talked and saw for himself, here is talking about something that only introduces one sublegal act and only takes the lead, I'd say type things, they edit here, so we have a homogeneous situation everywhere. Okay, we heard interesting things.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22464	The word is from MP Vojislav Seselj, president of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22465	The minister's trying to be funny, he's not doing it. He's very funny, but for some other reason he won't be very answering if they get out of this booth in public, so I'd keep it quiet, Minister. First, we had a debate earlier on on a provision, on the position of Article 17, where you have introduced senselessly as a legal norm that the contracting authority is obliged to reject the offer and the reasons for the refusal in writing to notify the bidder in the position of 1 this article as well as the public procurement administration and to record this documentation on the procurement procedure. That's completely pointless. What I asked for with my amendment makes sense, because it is a federal law that prescribes the obligation to report a crime and a Republic law where things in one particular matter are detailed. Therefore, it is not excessive. When you pass the Minister's Tax Act, you rewrite a whole series of provisions of federal tax laws, you actually should, but you're going wrong. You first pass the tax law, and then they have federal laws retroactively to adapt to your standards. That's the problem with our legal order. As for Article 27 - first, there is no point in having the finance and economy minister, closer to prescribing mandatory elements of competition documentation. This is a disgrace to the Prime Minister's reputation. Secondly, of all these points that include the necessary competitive documentation is the funniest model of the contract. It's not a mistake. What does a model contract mean? Why the contract model? The model contract exists in the Bond Act. Only if it deviates from the Bond Act is it necessary to enter some new elements. These are very rare cases. What does that contract have to contain? This is taught at the law school of commercial law, or economic law, as it used to be called. These are elements that are permanent, which cannot be avoided: the rights and obligations of the contracting authority and the rights and obligations of the contractor. There is nothing questionable about it, but it is unacceptable that the legal act contains these elements which, by nature, things are not legislative matter.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22466	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. ) The Government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 33 of the amendment. Since this amendment has been adopted by the Financial Committee and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MPs Rajko Baralic, Radojko Petrovic, Momir Radoičić, Marko Culibrk, Nebojsa Jovic, Ljubomir Mucic, Golub Rajic and Dragan Jovanovic submitted a joint amendment proposing that a new member of 38a be added after article 38a. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? The word has the People's MP Ljubomir Mucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22467	Dear People's MPs, Mr. Minister, I have submitted and explain the amendment on behalf of the Socialist Party parliamentary group; we have proposed that a new member of 38a be added after Article 38a, which reads: "When making technical documentation and other tender conditions, the contracting officer is obliged, on equal terms, to give priority to domestic suppliers and contractors". I think the story we talked about earlier in the afternoon about this and the amendment to article 55 comes to light, given the part of the argument that I made here this morning, this law should lead to an expression of the strategic definition of the further development of Serbian society. This finding, written under this law, is not so defined and, I have pointed out, that this law leads to further destruction and collapse of domestic economy and domestic production. To remind me: Article 38 is within the general rules on determining the technical elements of public procurement and I agree with my colleague Kresic, from the DOS parliamentary group; I think he should also support his amendment, as did Serbian Chamber of Commerce President Radoslav Veselinovic, who submitted an amendment similar to this amendment, but the Serbian government does not respect the opinion of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce and Home Economy in relation to what the law on public procurement provides. Through this law and through this amendment, I propose that all domestic brains be asked in the context of the production of technical documentation and other tender conditions. On equal terms, businesses, individuals, intellectuals from our midst, or from our economy, should have the advantage. Therefore, this amendment should give priority to suppliers and performers, at least in conditions where the same quality and equipment, same standards, same price and dynamics are offered to other bidders from abroad. I also think that through this and through Article 55, where the Socialist Party's parliamentary group has proposed certain changes and additions, it is necessary to arrange that under equal and equal conditions, priority in decision-making has domestic brains, domestic production and domestic industry. In the end, I'd agree, when there's talk of abuse of funds, to talk about arguments. The only thing I can't agree with is the story of those famous pools in Ossetina that are being talked about here. I would have nothing more to do with the arguments, just the fact that this year, where you are in power, in the end and in the final work; for these children from an undeveloped municipality; that an action beside the Socialist Party was led by a party that is a member of DOS; its people go to these sites, to end, that it is unnecessary and constitutes a criminal act. Why did you accept such a commitment? I consider that part of the work done in sports pools, sports vows in the Colubary County, is intended to be part of the funds used for these purposes this year. You can't run a policy - what you used to do is illegal, against the constitution, and when you do, it's okay. I can also say responsibly that it was done according to the programme, the plan, as established for the Colubary County programme. You have DOS MPs from the Colubary County, so let them confirm that they have also accepted that the works on these facilities are being completed. Why are significant sports facilities... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... At this moment, the construction of a pub and a locker room for a football club in the second municipality is more important, unfortunately than sports facilities and swimming pools in the municipality of Osecina. I don't see the difference at all, and I believe that both in both, and in the third municipality, these funds and these facilities are needed in the function of an action that is conducted under the password, "we protect children from drugs and abuse". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22468	Here's a word from MP Rajko Baralic, authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22469	Ms. Micic, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, an amendment tabled by a group of MPs from the SPS parliamentary group, has just indicated that it is not the best and should not be the only criterion for selecting a suitable bidder the lowest price. This can seem to be nice and can be made to be the lowest price of the criteria to be accepted and that the most services or goods for people’s needs can then be provided for the least of the people’s couples. I will remind you: the funds from which this is financed, which are the subject of public procurement, these are the appropriations and funds of the funds, and these are the most qualitative funds. In order to obtain these funds, it is necessary to isolate it from the domestic economy, from the domestic sector and thus form budgets and funds. If goods or services were purchased from these funds provided by our domestic manufacturers or service providers, we would have one cycle that is completely closed and meaningful. So, we help our money, for a little difference in price, foreign suppliers, who haven't had war aggression bombings, all these great pains that we've been going through over the past few years. What kind of competitiveness can be spoken of, for example, if we take "Simens" and the Chapanese "Freedom", which is practically completely leveled with the ground; today sells electric stoves and vacuum cleaners, it should be competitive with the Government of the Republic of Serbia; it has been branded by the National Bank of 6 dinars, and you have placed this company as extraprofessors; today we expect it to be competitive with manufacturers of white technology in the world. So I don't think that the lowest price is a proper criterion and no matter how much you resist, this provision will have inconceivable consequences for the domestic industry. I suggest you accept the new member of the 38th, which was spoken of by MP Ljubomir Mucic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22470	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 40 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22471	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment refers to point 3(b) of Article 40, which states that another national standard, following the JUS, can be applied to the determination of technical specifications! The minister is obliged here to explain to us what is the second national standard that could be applied except for the JUS! If an international standard had been said, a harmonised standard at international level, that would have been fine. What other national standards can be applied in public procurement, and it is not in line with the JUS to at least answer that question. I don't know what standard that could be applied to, but let him tell us what standard it is. Maybe he's right. What national standard is that? We know that in the world, there is a growing harmonisation of national standards on certain issues, and this requires modern technology. We're probably facing a process of full standardisation, of unifying all world standards. It is not yet possible to achieve this in many spheres either in Europe: it is still on the left side in England and it is on our right and uncertain as long as it takes; still when you travel to England and wear a shaving machine, you need to have that adapter that is adapted to the English standard; if you're going to America, you need America, and if you're going to South Africa, you need South Africa, etc. What is the national standard if we put aside the JUS, if we put aside the harmonised international standards that we have accepted, which is still the national standard that could be applied to us?- I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22472	Thank you. Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The MP Vojislav Seselj submitted to Article 44 of the amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22473	In Article 44(2), in the reference to essential requirements and the cost of patent charges, it is said: "The orderer may specify in the competition documentation that the fee for the use of patents, as well as the liability for the violation of the protected intellectual property rights of third parties, is borne by the tenderer. "The point of my amendment is to place the word "must" instead of the word "can." Why? That's very important, because the state is at risk if they order a job and the contractor does the job using another person's patent, and our government doesn't even know that it's protected by a patent, that this patent is registered somewhere, that it should be paid an adequate fee, etc. The state authority is not obliged to know, especially if it is a foreign contractor and may be a patent protected in a foreign country. This exposes us to many dangers, conducting copyright proceedings and industrial property rights. That's why in this case the contractor has to bear responsibility, and he's going to make up for the use of patent rights to install into the price. They'll even point out, in one segment of the application, that's how much money is allocated for the payment of copyright, or industrial property rights. It's too easy to treat that question here. It says, "Yes, but it doesn't have to." We know that in practice we often get ignorant people on these jobs, people who don't think about these issues. In the past decade, even for many years, we've had a practice of mass unauthorized use of copyright and industrial property rights. Now many of those who unauthorizedly used other people's copyrights and other industrial property are in danger of being left without a firm having to pay huge compensation; many of them did not even know that these things in the world are being paid and that our country is obliged to pay by international agreements, so that these rights, although their owners may be expelled before our courts, under certain conditions. This is where the state can absolutely secure itself. The state does not know in advance whether the perpetrator will use a particular patent, whether to apply certain industrial property rights or copyright; the labourer must regulate these issues himself. In fact, it's kind of his status issues, previous issues that must be resolved earlier. If they don't get rid of it, then he's the one who's supposed to take the risk, not the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22474	Is there anyone else applying for a word from the authorized participants in the debate on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 45 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22475	Ladies and gentlemen, there is no law so far that I have prepared more amendments. Twelve years I've been being a folk, being a federal envoy. That means I understand the importance of the law. I'd like you to understand the importance of the law, not to vote it by automatism, not by thinking or by entering into its contents. This amendment refers to Article 45 and requires in point 1) of Article 2 after the word "seat" is added to the words "if the country has an agreement with the SR Yugoslavia on equal treatment of domestic and foreign bidders". This refers to a matter which has already been discussed in one of our first amendments, as regards the conditions for participation in the competition of foreign persons, whether physical, or legal. Those parties may not be privileged in relation to our and that party, if they are registered to perform an adequate activity with the competent authority of the State in which they are established, they cannot have the same conditions for participating in the competition as domestic persons, domestic entities, unless our country has a contract with that State on equal treatment of domestic and foreign tenderers. We already in practice have a large number of ratifications of international contracts. The ratification of contracts on equalising the legal position of domestic and foreign operators is rare. We have had such a contract with Russia since 2000 and with very few countries. There are more and more countries with which we are making a deal to avoid double taxation. But it's to expect that we will have more and more international agreements of this kind, where our economic operators will equalise themselves with the economic operators of these countries with which we make agreements and their agreements with our legal entities. Only in that case would it be worth this provision and it would be good for the government to accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22476	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 45th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic, Milos Lukic, Petar Petrovic and Adam Urosevic. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does a representative of the applicants of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Milos Lukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22477	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the SSJ has proposed that Article 45 delete the positions of 2nd and 3rd for the following reasons: when it comes to the conditions for participation in the procurement procedure, we have noticed that a certain number, seven, are listed here, by the criteria which are determined to decide who can participate in the procurement competition. In addition, paragraph 2 states that the right to participate in the proceedings has a domestic or foreign legal or natural person against whom an emergency settlement, bankruptcy or liquidation procedure has not been initiated, i.e. it has not ceased its work on the basis of a judicial or other decision with binding force. There are companies against whom this procedure was initiated, then suspended, which have returned to normal economic life. These companies can only survive if they have a chance to participate in these competitions for public procurement. That can mean salvation for many of them. It is said in paragraph 3 that it is a firm which is not subject to criminal proceedings within five years prior to the publication of the procurement procedure by means of a judicial decision, i.e. by a judicial or administrative authority, a commercial offence or offence in connection with its business, or, where it is not given a judicial or administrative measure to prohibit the exercise of activity, which is the subject of public procurement. What does this mean? We are here in a very unprincipled way, let's say, companies that have really abused their position, firms where the responsible persons have been held accountable, who have damaged this country, etc. with companies that simply misdemeanorized. This may be the case that the company is not properly printed, so a misdemeanor or some banal thing in the business of a company that really shouldn't have an impact on the decision on public procurement has been made. The finance minister is headed by a team, so to speak, the Republic Public Revenue Administration and the Financial Police, who is very often tasked with necessarily finding an irregularity in a company that is controlled. If that's not the case today, worse, because it used to be. So, the consequences of some work from a previous period will directly reflect on companies today -- that I can't get the right to participate in public procurement. I repeat once again: it can be crucial for many companies and this moment can bring many companies back to life, and by eliminating the firm from this circle, it certainly means failure, or bankruptcy. We have a 4th position that says that "the companies that have reconciled taxes, contributions and other public taxes", that's quite fine, but I repeat once again that we have no opportunities, no chance of controlling firms from Montenegro, whether these obligations have been met, so we will be in an unequal position compared to companies from Montenegro.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-02-0.u22478	With this presentation, we have finished our work today. The debate on the proposal for a law on public procurement continues tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the Fourth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 103 MPs attend the session. To determine the quorum, please insert your identification cards into the MPs. I figure we have a quorum and we can keep working. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Živojin Stjepić, Ljubomir Mucic, Jelena Milenković-Orlić, Momir Radoičić, Slobodan Pavlovic, Milorad Jakšić, Miomir Tadic, Biaci Anton, Bakukulin Istvan, Sredoje Mihajlov, Dragan Kosanovic, Dragor Hiber and Juhas Atila. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. Also, according to members 83 and 84. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that I invited representatives of the Centre for Free Elections and Democracy, the National Movement "Resist", the National Democratic Institute, the Association of University Teachers and Teachers of Serbia -- the Kolubara Section and the USAID to this session. I welcome the guests present. I would like to inform you that I am in agreement with Article 73(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly convened a meeting of the Committee on Defence and Security in 12.00 hours and that, in accordance with Article 27. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly convened a constitutional session of the Kosovo and Metohija Committee at 1400 hours. We move to item 2 of the agenda: - PROPOSAL OF THE PUBLIC PROGRAMME(s) I remind you that in the review of the amendment to Article 45, which was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Marković, Milos Lukić, Petar Petrovic and Adam Urosevic, spoke MP Milos Lukic, representative of the applicants of the amendment. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 45 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radojko Petric. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here's a word from MP Radojko Petric, applicant for the amendment to Article 45.
