ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24352	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, the session is attended by 103 MPs and I ask you to insert identification cards into your MPs to determine the quorum. I find that the application of the electronic system has established that we have a quorum and that there is a parliamentary majority for the work of the MPs. I would like to inform you that they are prevented from attending the following MPs: Stanko Kovacevic, Neda Arnerić, Miodrag Jaćimović, Branko Beševic, Radmilo Milošević, Milutin Svevinović, Visnja Nežić, Dragan Šormaz, Petar Misic, Milos Radivojčević, Marijan Rističević, Radoslav Veseinović, Vasilija Pavić, Ratimir Svirčević, Teodora Vlahović, Slobodan Pavlovic and Dragan Jočić. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. Also, according to members 83 and 84. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that the president of the National Assembly of Natasa Micic invited representatives of the Centre for Free Elections and Democracy, the People's Movement "Resist", the National Democratic Institute, representatives of the University Professors' Association and teachers of Serbia -- the Kolubara Section and USAID. I welcome the guest present to the National Assembly. We move on to the 2nd item of the agenda: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and CONTAINMENTS OF THE CONTRIBUTIONS (Joint principle search with 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 of the Agenda) We continue the joint principle search: - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Tax on Transport; - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax on Business Profits; - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Tax on Income of Citizens and - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Excises. According to the order of the People's MPs declared for the word, the People's MP Zoran M. Nikolic has the word, followed by Zoran D. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24353	Mrs. Comic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the tax concept, which was promoted in 2001, was essentially an amendment and addition of the previous solutions, corrected by some new legal proposals and was essentially acceptable. What DSS MPs suggested back then, in 2001, is that when we adopt a new tax concept, it must be calculated with the social component. At the time, it seemed to us, and now these changes and additions confirm that we were right at the time when we claimed that the social component had been left out and that we had already been able to make a lot of relief; precisely those which were now proposed by the Government, both by the MPs, who through the amendment had made their proposals, and these, fortunately, and adopted. What we had at the time as a concern proved to be true and those rough statistics say: for nine months in 2001 revenues were charged in favour of budget spending were actually higher by 42.4% and nominally higher by over 70%. On the other hand, we have indicators of production movement for the first nine months, where a growth of 1.1% was achieved, and the gross social product is increased by 2.5% for the first nine months. Investments are very small and what we wanted and what has been repeatedly declared by the Republic government, and investments have lagged behind and amounts to about $100 million. Of course, the tax system is important for every country, but when we talk about creating a single market economy's economic environment, it's not the only thing that matters. Some other things are needed to have an attractive business environment, in which foreign and domestic investors would invest, which is primarily a solid system of healthy, stable institutions and the rule of law. We at the DSS have pointed out from the very beginning that without solid and stable institutions, without the rule of law, we do not have a healthy and realistic chance of competing, even with countries in the region. What bothers us and what we have seen as an anomaly when we talk about the tax system is the very structure of tax collection, where it is easy to see that sales tax and excise taxes participate with over 60%, almost 65% in the full budget; and by introducing a proportional rate of 10% on annual income, we are going to increase that share of sales tax and excise duties in budgeting, which certainly is not good and clearly indicates who are the taxpayers and points to the degree of fairness of this tax system. So, again, I don't think we're going in the direction of respecting that social component. What my impression of yesterday's discussion, given that we were all somewhat surprised that a large number of MPs took part in the debate over this set of tax laws, is one encouraging fact. At last, MPs, and those who belong to the opposition, but also those MPs who belong to parliamentary groups who once made up the DOS parliamentary club, have been critical about this bill, but also in a positive sense trying to fix this law. It gives me one hope, though weak, that the authority of this assembly is coming back, that we have a chance to finally get out of a period where the speed of reform is important, so that we return to that essence, which is, that we are all committed to reform. I think that's important, if this is a breaking moment, I'd really like to discuss all the laws the way we did it yesterday. I don't even agree with the statement that was made yesterday morning, so this period of seven days allegedly lost, he's so qualified, I don't think it's lost time. I find it inadmissible to pass such important laws to the MPs 24 hours before the session. I think that is exactly the period of seven days that opened the space for the MPs to better prepare and make the amendments higher and better.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24354	People's MP, I'm sorry to interrupt your discussion. I ask the MPs, and I ask the National Assembly to keep quiet about the exposure for technical reasons, if not out of our own respect for the Rules of Procedure, which we are obliged to listen to one another, because workers working on stenographic notes cannot from talking to the MPs to catch every word of the speaker and to make an accurate stenogram. That's why I'm asking for order in the O.R. You have one more apology, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24355	Thank you. I've already been to the end. I believe that we will be at war with this bad habit of measuring the success of the reforms by the number of laws we have passed, that we all commit ourselves together to the quality of these laws, and that as responsible representatives of the people and citizens, we are indeed committed to it. So the Democratic Party of Serbia will support this set of tax laws for the simple reason it is about the reliefs that go towards facilitating taxpayers' obligations, but once again I want to conclude that it is not enough. To have a liberal market economy, for which we from the Democratic Party of Serbia are unequivocally defined, what is needed and what we are going to fight for is a solid system of stable institutions and the rule of law.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24356	The word is from MP Zoran D. Nikolic, who is not present in the O.R. The word has the next registered speaker, MP Djordje Mamula, and after that, MP Milos Lukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24357	When it comes to this tax package, we heard here from the pay phone several times yesterday that we have the most liberal tax regulations. The only thing we haven't heard is the sources from which we can find out how liberal our tax regulations really are. After a decade, our society began to appear on lists of important world institutions that measure economic freedom, business freedom, political, democracy, etc., so in 2001 it was announced that we are among the 27 countries in transition or change, as it is said, and there are tax regulations that matter, at 18th, 19th place in the state of democratisation; 22nd or 23rd place by rule of law, 22nd place after the economic liberalisation of the 27 countries that are considered. When it comes to Central and Eastern European countries, we are in 15 places of 15 countries according to the rule of law, economic liberalisation and economic freedoms. In the spring of 2001, by adopting a package of tax laws, a partial reform of the tax system was carried out at Serbia's level. It would have been good if the authorities had passed other reform laws so quickly, not just taxes, which was obviously an expression of the tendency to secure the administration budget. When it comes to the tax budget, it should be said that the accent has been put on the revenue side of the budget, i.e. increasing it by better tax collection, but nothing has happened in the direction of a radical reduction in state spending and creating a private business environment. We still have relatively high taxes for having a very expensive state and still a strong grey economy. The number of taxes has been reduced from 270 to 230, but the tax burden remains very high. In fact, it was increased because the authorities in Milosevic's tax regime accounted for by official rather than market rate, because the suspected companies were forgiven for taxes and because the tax avoidance was higher. Serbia is one of the few European countries where no additional value tax has yet been introduced, and it is said that it will be introduced in 2004, so it is unclear why it is delayed. There is still a 20 per cent sales tax, which has a significant impact on business and what justice does with the lack of an adequate information system. The income tax on citizens remains cellary. The burden of employers remained realistically unchanged, since before reforming a single dinar of net pay, about 0.78 dinars of tax had to be paid, and with the introduction of the gross salary concept, the burden was reduced to 0.72 dinars. Excessive payload continued to destimulate labour employment and stimulate non-reporting workers. Also, new legal solutions provide for progressive taxation of individuals who achieve total annual income above a certain limit, which is a difficult destimulation of more extensive and quality work and actually punishment for business success. The company profit tax of 20% of the government is persistently seen as low, although it is better to reduce fiscal interventions on this basis and attract investments, instead of insisting it is not a higher tax rate than the one in the environment. However, the service that the state of Serbia charges at 20% for sales tax is far lower than the one that costs roughly the same in the surrounding countries. In a country whose biggest problem of poverty would be much more reasonable to reduce this tax rate to a single-digit level if not abolished. That reformers have no hearing of this kind of thinking shows the absence of fiscal decentralisation and fiscal competition between municipalities and regions, and I see that there were no proposals in this direction. If municipalities or the city give up their tax revenues, they automatically shift to Serbia's budget, thus losing the possibility of a chain reduction of tax duties. Excises have been retained, and the state has found that the luxury includes such things as: cooking salt, non-alcoholic beverages, etc. Accizes have remained an attractive way of filling the state budget, but also for the growth of the gray economy. By imposing large excise duties on certain types of goods, an incentive has been given to create an illegal market for these goods. The black market for cigarettes, for example, remains about 50% and the illegal market exists in other excise goods. In August 2002, the government announced a struggle against the gray economy, which, of course, is slightly articulating and not the government's market orientation. The programme would consist of increased work by financial regular police, not by removing key incentives for the grey economy. The government ignores that the gray market is the most marketable part of Serbia's economy and that the economy differs from the regular one only in three respects. First, there is no statistical, secondly, official taxes, thirdly, due to tax avoidance, that part of the economy is illegal and illegal. The real way to fight the grey economy is not to increase the high degree of coercion anyway, but to eliminate the cause of the gray economy, which is complicated regulation, high taxes and non-functional state institutions. The government is constantly promoting the fight against smuggling, but it is dishonest, dissuasive and occasional, making sense that there is little success in it. The question is whether it is more effective to abolish excise duties and improve the scope of tax collection, avoid costs of allegedly unsavoury fighting, or keep the current situation. In order to demonstrate reformers' fairness, a significantly taxed luxury, such as mobile phones, yachts, and boats, is a weapon, which has in some ways the character of a vengeful tax. The behaviour of the predatory state is also seen in taxis on the transfer of absolute rights that have been increased from 3% to 5%, thus increasing the price of the exchange of ownership rights, which is evidence of the primary focus of new authorities and their anti-market thinking. The evidence of this consistency is also the level of tax on financial transactions. In the first half of 2002, some taxes were following Serbia's budget: sales tax 48.4%, profit tax 23.5%, property tax 3.1%, tax 3.1%, customs duties 7.3%, and other incomes 14.16%. This shows that Serbia has an out-of-date and unstimulative tax system. Serbia, therefore, is a country where taxes are inappropriately high, the number of formal charges is around 230 and state spending is over 54%. In countries, according to World Bank standards, where income per capita is $1,500, and we have 1,200, state spending should not be more than 20% of the social product, which would mean that state spending in Serbia should be reduced more than twice. So the rules of the game are still unstable here, which further worsens the business environment. Instead of that, the tax policy in Serbia should rest on quite another basis - a reduction in the number of taxes; taxes with unique rates, without tax exemptions; fiscal federalism and the promotion of competition, introduction of value added tax up to 10% and synthetic income tax with a flat and not progressive rate; the disposal of sales taxes, taxes on financial transactions, taxes on capital gains; and the minimisation of action taxes and their adoption of only a few products. This would encourage the entrepreneurial spirit of investment, start legalisation of the grey economy, and instead of socialist, the country would get a break-through tax system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24358	The word has a folk MP Milos Lukic, followed by a National MP, Slavoljub Matic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24359	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here again we have no luck for the minister to be present when some important questions are raised. Since I have very little time, I'm just going to list a few problems that bother all of us every day. The minister said yesterday about this pay phone that people who invest in sports, who sponsor and finance sports organisations are tax-free. That's absolutely not true. It is only true that the part that is invested in sport, or sponsorship, is recognised as cost. However, motivation for such a thing certainly cannot be - tax exemption, since a man can do these costs in a different way. We have come to a very large replacement of thesis, namely the minority minister here in the Assembly calling us for product smuggling at the border, for tax evasion, customs, excise and so on, instead of us as MPs setting it up for him and giving us an answer why this segment doesn't work properly. It's obvious there's a lot missing, but we don't need to be told here. We are also left without answering the question -- what about PDO workers, RUJP workers, who will lose their jobs and who gets the job, which school prepares necessary for doing these jobs and so on. That's all life's questions. These are questions to be answered immediately, as these regulations apply in a month or a month and a half. I call on the Minister to schedule a special discussion on the position of this ministry towards building buildings on other people's land, financing of construction and the like, since this ministry is unconditionally charging taxes on the transfer of absolute rights in this case. We are not given the price of the fiscal cash register that our citizens will have to buy and we are not explained why the value added tax is being introduced, probably at the end of next year, or why not now and what are the reasons why it does not now. So there's a lot of questions and a little time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24360	The word has a People's MP Slavoljub Matic (not here), then the word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24361	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, as far as I can see these changes and additions to the entire set of tax laws are, in fact, just one small part of the SRS amendment, which our MPs proposed when they passed these laws. Then these tax changes were possible. However, without hearing about our amendments and the state of the people, the conduct of excessive fiscal policy has led to a further reduction of tax rates, as well as an extension of the entire set of goods that need to be freed from sales taxes. Several times already, SRS lawmakers have criticised why children's confection is not free of sales taxes, so the minister, who is not here now, told us that he has children's complicities in which the government of Divac can get involved. Maybe he's right, I didn't check it out, but I can ask him, and you tell him if he can get into diapers for a one-time or multiple use to infiltrate the Government of the Divac. Can we put something else in baby food, for example? meatcutter or it'll be baby food. Is someone making a crib and a crib for people the size of a Divic Government or for babies? Those are the tax breaks we're looking for. These are tax reliefs that the Serbian people need. And it's probably the reason he's rejected it's because he's afraid it's the revenue side of the budget that's going to deprive him of it. Obviously it's about a lazy man, because if he were serious and a little bit, he would easily have filled that income side even more than he would have predicted with his tax laws. First, it is necessary to make a division of goods: on goods that are not taxed, we already have; on goods for general purpose; on technical goods and on goods that are considered luxury. And all these types of goods, which are from imports, other than drugs, increase by 50%. We need to protect the domestic economy, domestic industry and domestic worker that fills the budget of the Republic of Serbia. It happens that G17, in co-ordination with Mr. Djelic, has liquidated four Serbian banks, and now in other banks, which are not our own, is about five billion marks of our citizens' savings. These funds are used to borrow and purchase technical goods from other countries, not our own. Our citizens are paid 2.5% interest on an annual basis, our foreign creditors pay 12 to 15% on an annual basis, and they rob us of the market. Well, he can't expect Mr. Minister that only the federal government will take care of his economy and industry, customs and other measures; he must do so with his tax laws. When it comes to our domestic air transport, there are again our air carriers in a subordinate position; we now release everything on international lines, and tax payments, and taxes on jet fuel, and just for your information, let's say if you hand over your passport and take out your ID card, if you take out a ticket to JAT, a visa for France, you'll wait seven days. If you buy the AIR-FRANCE plane ticket, you'll wait one day. So they protect their embassies in one incorrect way their air carriers, and we still give them jet fuel without taxes, no excises, which is the cheapest thing in the world anyway, so that's funny. Release our air carriers, just them for international flights, so they can deal with such one competition. When it comes to fiscal cashiers, there's not a lot of things being said, who's going to be an importer, nor what their price will be, but I guarantee you, first financial, or second officer, who's going to ask for a citizen's bill from the fiscal register and who's going to pay him a fine of 1,000 dinars, and a citizen like that, if he gets out of the store and spends his salary in two bags, so my people are going to kick his ass. Make sure they get beat up. I thought this minister knew something about the economy and that he was different from the retail sale. Yesterday, by his exposure, which looked nothing like nothing, he proved that he essentially had no idea what economic operators were in the country.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24362	The word is made by MP Dragan Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24363	Ladies and gentlemen, tax and tax policies are the best way to look at the character of one state, one government, it's kind of a mirror of the government. You can see, especially in an orderly country, what it supports, what it stimulates and what kind of politics it leads to. We lived a long time in a country where taxes were "the last hole in playing", but social justice was "a dead letter on paper". In laws, in declarations, and in reality nowhere. Free treatment, but if you're sick, you have to buy drugs, bandages, so it costs you more. Free schooling, but school leaks. He's got social aid, child support, but three years from now. It was social justice, and taxes, and if you wanted to pay them, you couldn't, because it was a high percentage in the area of the gray economy. We have and record today in the budget report far greater investment in health, education, the above-average salary growth in the budget users, compared to the total wage growth, so we cut taxes. Here I want to recognize the results of the two-year Serbian government and the space created for the reductions that we are bringing today. Many here have said that it's an ex-post mind, that it's a change in tax policy, that it should have been done before, and exactly the results that have been achieved in the last two years have created opportunities for users of the budget to give more, or the same, and to cut taxes. First of all, of course, it was achieved only by greater financial discipline, by curbing the gray economy, which also contributes to higher tax payments, the initial but very significant results in curbing smuggling, especially excise products, but also by telling citizens in the state and its institutions. That's how this phenomenon came about that you take less, and you give more. And there's inconclusive evidence that there's good results in the previous period and that's what we expected; and when we said that everything couldn't be right away, here, after a while, taxes are shrinking. Directly, these decisions we make today affect the improvement of standards. Elimination of sales taxes to all life-forms, if this is a single salary cost, and if these groceries participate significantly, and how direct impact is on the standard, especially among poorer layers. On the other hand, tax relief is also very important, which is an incentive for the economy. So far in business, we haven't had a category of winnings. It wasn't or was not shown. The most favourable tax rate for taxing obtaining businesses is a very large incentive for investment, a very large incentive for employment, indeed, not fictitiously, and a very large stimulant for privatisation, because by the Privatisation Act we have obliged the buyer to invest, whether it is an auction, or a tender. He will have additional motivation, as the investment will enter his tax exemption. In five years, he can at least win so much he can build another factory like that. Also, policy towards underdeveloped municipalities was earlier to form funds for underdeveloped ones, so these funds are in the hands of a political elite, which often makes some monuments or a failed economic investment. Here, conditions are created for direct investment, because 10 years do not pay tax on profits, it is a very high motivation for investments in undeveloped municipalities, especially since this investment is also reduced to a figure of 20,000 marks and five employees. It's a very big stimulant, and I think it'll contribute to what we're trying to do. Second, when we make laws in the congregation, it is vital that we pass laws that can be implemented. It's very important that law enforcement can be controlled. The law itself should provide for the possibility of whether it will be possible to implement, whether the law will enable control. It's not a good story - it won't be a citizen. It is not true; previous experience has just shown that citizens are the first to accept a regulated state and the regulated rules. And finally, I think that these tax changes that we are adopting today bring even greater social security to the citizens, that we have managed to accept the challenge of transition and that there is no expected social anger, perhaps planned by those political parties that have recognised their chance. Despite the problems, despite all that the transition carries, I think that these tax changes have also taken a significant step towards social security and new reform efforts, for which social security is needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24364	There is a word from the People's Messenger Miomir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24365	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I congratulate you on behalf of the SPS, Slobodan Milosevic. About a package of tax laws that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has given us to discuss, in relation to the legal proposals that were given to citizens a year ago to plead, I can say: that the tax policy package is acceptable from the aspect of the preservation of state interests, the budget of the Republic of Serbia and as such is inevitable. But the realities observed in the adoption of the previous law, where we have pointed out irregularities and inability to be realistic at that moment from the aspect of filling revenue into the budget on this basis, how much citizens and our economy can pay for it, are now seen by the proposal for a law that the government has given, where certain corrections are made regarding the reduction of rates and reliefs that are given by these grounds, in these legal proposals. Paroles on this issue are made in terms of marketing, such as "tax, tax, tax" passwords, all around us tax, on all doors of the house tax. It is nice to promise citizens that Zeytin will be cheaper by 10 dinars per litre, that, as Minister Djelic said in his presentation yesterday, Serbian citizens spend an average of 6 liters per month, and that is the case, and that is not the case. It is only 60 dinars or one euro, which in this year did not amount to any of the cooked corn on our Montenegrin coast. If that's the other thing that Serbian citizens need to be nice, then make it so nice. Before the government's argument, I would like to point out that the government was supposed to be dealing with some other things, let's say that a package of these tax regulations, amendments and additions, we can reduce the republican administration, especially the federal administration; how do we see if what you are in the current position has criticised us, that there were many police, militias at the time of our rule. Now we have so many police, or militias and other sights, that there will always be a militiaman in front of us, behind us a militiaman, above and below us always a militiaman. That's good for democracy. I think it's for the best. As far as these proposals are concerned, how to fill the budget, related to these legislative proposals, we agree that the budget should be filled out from these sources of health care, education, disability and pension, for the Labour Market Office, but there is still a need to cut budget spending where possible and where it is realistic. The budget needs to be filled out from those real sources, and that is, above all, what the promoter has not seen: how to revive the economy, how to stabilise industrial production, how to achieve the real amounts of global or European criteria that we are calling for; that, let's say, the growth of social product is greater than planned now, that industrial production is at our European level, that national income per capita is as it is, and not as it is. These are real sources and therefore our parole in this section should be the following: production, production, production. Given that you have taken away our parliamentary mandates and that we need to shorten the discussion, I would only move on to key laws, to what I know, and that is the Tax on Transport of Products and Services, where I have one big remark. We have tied ourselves to all these economies of other countries, but a typical example is that, in Article 17 of the bill, where tax reliefs are foreseen, there is no provision for something where the state itself finances, and these are protective water installations. We had a situation just a month ago, a huge flood wave from Germany, Austria and a country in transition - Hungary. He came to the border of our country, we received that wave, accepted it, and calmed it, transparently, in calm waters. That's why our companies, our experts who did it all nicely, built and accepted it, got the following: those companies that were protecting these facilities now demand millions of dinars, and according to the Tax Administration Act, they can respond, because not only did they not get the money, but they can't even settle taxes on the basis of these services. That the state is criticizing itself, that the state is burdening itself, I think it's quite an instruction. There is no amendment on this basis, but if Minister Djelic were there, he would probably accept that in article 17. - the maintenance of water protection facilities will be excluded from paying taxes on services. As far as income tax is concerned, I can only say that athletes, and especially amateur sports, should be more freed, because some other things are not taxed, such as the services of estradic artists who, for example, take money on various occasions, there is no fiscal cash, and I think there are some additions. To allow other colleagues, I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24366	The People's MP Tomislav Nikolic has the word, followed by MP Dusan Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24367	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, yesterday Minister Djelic yelled at the MPs, and he knew by then that he would not be attending the session today because he had scheduled a meeting with local self-government representatives. It's probably already, as if the law was passed, giving them instructions on what to do and how to do, and maybe it deals with something more important to him than the law, which we've been listening to in public for a month now that by stopping them, there's been an erosion of the standard of living in Serbia. And the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia became a cosmetic salon in which, after four months of unwork, with several laws and 26 dinars a month for a four-member family should prove to Serbia that it has a reform government, that there are ministers who know everything and can do anything, and Serbia is slowly turning into a police state. All government services will have their own police. We'll come to Albania's level, which one citizen had a police officer. There's only luck in all this, that before New Year's Eve, on the basis of article 85. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Minister Djelic will be questioned by Serbian President Vojislav Seselj, to expose his tax fiscal policy. Fortunately, the constitution has that provision and fortunately, Serbia will have a president who will be able to question the government and ministers, unlike one who is currently not involved in his business. I know that the burden of the ex-wise mind is heavy. It would be very good if you hadn't introduced these taxes you're taking off last year. Someone here needs to tell us from this pay phone - who's going to get hurt because these taxes were introduced, and they shouldn't have been introduced. How come last year was savagery if we didn't introduce taxes on oil and sugar, stop reforms, get Serbia out of Europe with amendments, not to introduce taxes on drinking water, oil and sugar. Now all of a sudden, after a year, the government of the Republic of Serbs brings us back to savagery. It brings us back to buying social peace, which we've been very accused of, so it says -- you've been providing us with cheap oil and sugar for social peace, during which time the state fell apart, because it was cheap sugar and oil. What gives you the right to follow our policy that you say was not correct? No, but to come out here and say that we've run the right policy and that you're ashamed to suddenly accept all the amendments of the SRS, but that you're going to go through every two months one law where you're going to come to the level that the SRS offered you a year and a few days ago. This is where the minister brought out the cup that says "tax." It should tell the citizens of Serbia, since you've been in power and since he's a minister, there's taxed water in those cups. Because I have no heart to say that people drink milk and yogurt from those cups. That may be what we who have more salaries than other Serbian citizens drink, a large majority in Serbia has no money for it. Why don't you free your electricity from taxes? Why? That would be a big move. Why are you here boasting that pay is enormously increased for all those who support themselves from the budget? Who's gonna bring the money for those salaries? Fallen economy? Foreign trade giant houses you're building in Belgrade, and they're not even paying labour contractors or money jobs, but gift-buying bonuses at those facilities when they're open. At 1:3 import-export ratio, both towards Croatia and Slovenia, without talking about the developed world. Which is what we're going to fill the Republic of Serbia's budget with, except you're still making it up. I can't understand that a tax officer will have the right to legitimize a citizen who comes out of a bakery and asks him for a bill for a bought bagel. By what law will they be able to legitimize him? Or he'll go along with every tax officer and one uniform cop, so everything has legal form. Will the citizens start dreaming... (President: five minutes. )......................................................................................................... Tax service like the children of angels used to dream. You will have the trouble to prove to Serbia why for a year and a half you have charged taxes on sugar and oil, filled the budget, and poored the people. You'll have a lot of pain to prove and how you're now liberating strangers who bought us everything that's worth in this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24368	Six minutes. The People's MP Dusan Cvetkovic has the word, followed by MP Hranislav Peric. National MP Dusan Cvetkovic, who is now entitled to the word, is 26. out of 30 registered speakers.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24369	Dearly respected presidency, colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr. Absent Ministers, respected my Leskovcans, as representative of the SPS parliamentary group, who, through the will of the DOS, was taken from the five parliamentary mandates, I must, at the very beginning of this debate, express serious concern for my personal integrity and integrity of the SPS parliamentary group after those events since Monday, especially after last night's statement by the minister of justice that he was completely, maltene, rightly his representative, Comrade Stefanovic, when he highlighted our MP. My Leskovci, on your many calls these days, I confirm to you that the SPS and the Leschnjak in it will remain consistent with the behaviour they have been so far and that we will be dignified and in the way that socialists behave in this home. Dear MPs, the will of the DOS in this assembly house has already been introduced as a law to conduct a debate on the omnibus of various laws. I apologize to my Serbian professors for using this word, because it's nowhere to be found, but DOS has introduced it into a new DOS dictionary. Since DOS MPs certainly don't care and don't go to the people to hear the opinions of entrepreneurs, citizens and businesses on the laws they put on the agenda, they care that by shortening the debate, it makes it impossible for us socialists, who are going to get these opinions into the people, to make them and to bring them out in a dignified way after this speaker. I'll just say a few words about what I have time for, and that's the Transport Tax Act. Dear colleagues, when last year in March as a parliamentary group of SPS for the adoption of the Transport Tax Act, we asked Minister Djelic not to amend the law at all costs and that the standard of our citizens will be seriously threatened by the introduction of an oil, fat and sugar tax of 20%, the minister rejected us by saying that if we release taxes on oil, sugar and fat in addition to bread and milk, the law on sales would lose its full meaning. Despite our arguments, he argued that when we asked for other provisions to be left for the release of sales taxes, which were introduced for the first time since March of last year by the drug tax and medical means. I would just like to remind myself, with this appreciation of the arguments, the MP group of the SPS then fought for the first time not to introduce a tax on textbooks from elementary schools to college, but the government did not accept it. School supplies and studies were taxed, writers and drawing accessories, and the government began to charge 20% of taxes and drink orthopaedic aids on water. Not to mention further, but the government and Minister Djelic's argument everywhere was that by retaining these untaxed items, they would create a major problem and destroy reform law. That's a long time ago. The people see, and the citizens feel how much nicer they live with expensive medicine, expensive textbooks, more expensive communals. Only in the next year will there be problems because they are not taxing on the marketing of medicines; when in the pharmaceutical industry sales campaign comes into the situation that they become the owners of pharmaceutical houses mostly foreign companies, except for Hemofarm; when it is known that the prices of medicines for those who used to work in the pharmaceutical industry were 30% to 40% of the domestic prices of medicines that apply in the world, then they will only become hooks and tend to those who need medications. And I'm just going to mention "Karvileks", a drug that is produced in Leskovec and which is in the woodshed price of 300 dinars, and the prices of this drug in foreigners are 1,500 dinars. However, to return to the elimination of sales taxes, to oil, to zaytin as we say in Leskovac. The government didn't want the whole last year and this year the citizens of Serbia had cheaper and oil, and oil, and fat and sugar, but it's still better than ever, or what my Leskovcians would say - from a bad erbape, it was a bit of a weed. However, it is a good thing, believing, that we will welcome these upcoming holidays and the beginning of Christmas fasting with a slightly lower price of oil and sugar. By finishing the story of the sales tax, allow me to ask you as deputies of DOS and Mr. Minister one question: how long will it take for months to announce the spectacular improvement of Serbian citizens' standards due to the reduction of oil, fat and sugar prices, if it wins the opinion of Prime Minister Djindjic that the euro has been underestimated, and Mr. Minister and Mr. Dinkic remain in the minority, so the euro since the new year reaches 80 dinars? Won't then, just beginning to apply this law, all the positive effects of lower prices fall into the water or come to terms with what ours say: it can be but it doesn't have to mean. I have to express my satisfaction that the jet fuel was freed from sales taxes, although something could have been done before, because there were objective reasons for that. Dear gentlemen of the Government, fellow Members of Parliament, when it comes to the Transport Tax Act, allow me to point out in principle a matter which should certainly not have changed in this part of the law in Article 3. In an old solution, adopted by the assembly in March last year, gas station sales were freed from the introduction of so-called. Register of cash registers. I think it was completely justified and it was done with complete understanding. However, it is now proposed that fiscal cash registers must be introduced at petrol stations as well. The introduction of fiscal registers at gas stations is completely unnecessary, as I say to you as a man who knows the problem. There's a part of it on the gas station machines, so-called. a totaliser, which registers the total sale of fuels that came out on that machine from the moment the machine was released into service. That totalizer is under the seal of the Federal Bureau of Measures and precious metals. He's under direct market inspection. No intervention on the part, which records the total sales, can be done without the Federal Bureau of Measures and precious metals. That's just those who know, that's the part in the recording machine. Have someone from the government come with me and we'll see it at every gas station from the moment it was released. The total sales in the last 10 years cost as much as it came out. Even when there is a change in fuel sold on that machine, it must be observed and recorded in both records and records of the total amount of fuel sold. So there's no reason to force gas stations to have these crates, especially when today, when you sell 10,000 liters of fuel, it buys 2,000 buyers. I'll come back to that when it comes to the amendment. In the end, let me say something about what you boast about, and it's about the rent tax. I've got an account in front of me by a crazy socialist, who reported paying taxes for renting an apartment to students. His account for this year is 60,070 dinars. What you're boasting about is that now you're going to cut down on your taxes on the rent of this apartment, that owner's going to cost 30 and a few thousand dinars. So what you're spectacularly announcing is just throwing dust in your eyes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24370	People's MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the DOS parliamentary group -- Serbia's reform -- came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24371	Dear Mrs Comic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will try to repeat what I said during yesterday, when I asked Parliament to base the debate on the facts on these points of the agenda; that we can talk about the arguments that were made a year ago, but when we do so, we must not forget the situation that was at the time and, above all, make arguments supporting this initiative by the Ministry of Finance, or the Republic Government, we cannot avoid an analysis of the current situation. What was said a year ago as a criticism of our initiative to provide a broad tax base and a single tax rate with the necessary resources to finance the state, was the result of the state of our economy and the whole of our society, which was disastrous. To talk about drugs, and to ignore the debt, which has left the health insurance fund to the new authorities in the amount of two billion marks for us is nonsensical. Today that debt is reduced. The Health Insurance Fund regularly settles its obligations, drug prices are down by 25% compared to January, when a new health fund was established. That's our truth. They didn't go up after 20% tax, but with that tax they went 25% lower on average. In some situations and more. Very accurate and reasoned. The ino-domical price of the drug, which is formed on our market, is exactly what it is. Take a look at the average in our environment and you will see that our health insurance companies receive reliable quality drugs, at much lower prices than this is the case in the environment and without those fees, of which today's socialists sitting in Parliament are ashamed. Don't talk about Milovan Bojic, don't talk about Toma Jankovic, don't talk about the forgetfulness of Mirko Marjanovic and his sad memory of where he got over a million francs on his account in Switzerland and what a strange connection it is between the Prime Minister and the then chairman of the SPS and the firm, who supplied to the markets in this country. It's our social disgrace. When we talk about facts today, then we can very responsibly say that the health insurance fund on average has lowered the price of the drug by 25%. It is true that the Health Insurance Fund narrowed down the list of medicines it finance, i.e. covering the state, from 400 to 150. But among those 400 were weight loss funds, so I'm making sure that maybe someone was damaged because the health care fund was paying for weight loss funds, and then someone was making a profit on that. Until we had cytostatics for children suffering from cancer, because someone on these cytostatics, taking a commission, damaged this country and, most difficultly, took away that little chance of living the youngest in this country. It's agony, which can't be spoken of so coldly and without respect for everything that's been done in a year. Where's the responsibility? The responsibility lies with the representatives and the people who have led the institutions for 10 years and who have silently or not agreed to it. Oil, sugar, fat, why today, not a year ago? Because in the meantime, this country has been operating, although many have resisted and wanted exactly the opposite, and because today the state from other sources of funding can meet the needs of 800,000 refugees, the needs of millions and 500,000 pensioners, the needs of education, health care, the judiciary, the police. Fully to answer, not by printing money, but by real income. Next year, Serbia's Elektroprivreda will not function based on budget donations, but on the market. It's one of the effects of what we've been doing for a year and a half, and that's how it's going to be for another year. A year ago, we taxed computers and said it was a process of introducing order in this country. Today we take the sales tax off the computer, we take the sales tax off oil, sugar, fat. We've taken off the meat, we've liberalized and facilitated agricultural development in our country, and there's nothing like that that can be ignored by irresponsible performances and attitudes. Our situation was very bad. There were great needs of the state, and these needs are taxed. The tax institution is never respected in this country. In 2000, the state charged zero dinars based on corporate tax. They've all done their jobs negatively. Look at the fact, and let's see if they've all done business negatively, or if they've been so subtly charged these funds, but through the party registers and the parallel private companies, who've been pulling funding out of the state, so many of you today, who were the government, are ashamed of that. But you're not with you. They're somewhere else. Don't muddle them. As for the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group, which also made a number of remarks, alluding to the sales tax allegedly charged on water, the tax on cups, is now very well aware of what is being paid, who is charging it and what benefits it has. Ten years in this country didn't know that. No more taxis, no more parallel illegal taxes, no more what was a feature of the ten-year rule of the previous regime, and that was an empty budget register and that gray business zone from which all that had nothing to do with the state was financed illegally. There may be occasional need for state needs, but with the state there is no need. If there were, we wouldn't be empty pension funds, with debts of 500 million marks, or 250 million euros at the moment; we wouldn't have the minus that we have in our internal economic life that was in a situation when we took over the government of 15 billion marks. These were internal claims from companies operating on this market. When we talk about "Health" Leskovac, where they are responsible for producing "cosili" without a license, which is why "Health" Leskovac cannot be privatized as successfully as it was the case, let's say, with the company in As for your concern for the register register, we support the register at the gas station. [[tossing out of the O.R.]] The most profitable job in the last decade was the job of the people at the gas stations when the gas stations didn't work. As you call for examples, I suggest you go to an OMB gas station, go anywhere to a gas station abroad and see what is sold there and what is sold at a gas station in Serbia. The register register means a stable source of funding for this country, a secure salary for those financed from the budget, and that's what we insist on. Such relief, at this point, cannot be because the state does not have the necessary means to compensate for such a minus that would appear in the budget. Ten billion dinars is a big concession. Let's make it even bigger next year, but after this year's tax policy it's clear that we were right. Because we said: a broad tax base, a clear tax, and we'll talk about the benefits when it starts to work. And that works. Yesterday, you saw that by October of the month, an average of 80% of the planned funds was charged. At the end of the year, that percentage of success will be higher. That is why we can meet those who were responsible for the state, who paid taxes and thus helped themselves and others who today can see their chance in tax reliefs that are being introduced. It's easy to say to take the tax off everything. But then go out to the citizens and give them the money. Come out and say, "We're a state that can respond to its needs." "It can pay what it needs to pay for." "But from a printing store in Topcider, not from a budget and from an account in banks." That's not what we do. In this country, there is no uncontrolled inflation, there is no printing of money, there is no privatisation of state institutions, which has been characteristic in that tax sense in the past ten years, when companies have been removed and tax-free regardless of the consequences resulting from this. You take one off, but that's why the other has to pay for himself and for the one you freed. That's how we got a society where a million and a half people are out of work. The economy doesn't know those principles. The economy knows the principles we discussed today. Why is that a liberal concept? We can talk about the concept of Germany or the United States, but categories that measure the liberalisation of the tax system are not the ones used here during today's debate. We created the most liberal tax system in Europe on the basis of the lowest tax on corporate profits in Europe; the income tax is the lowest in Europe. The broad tax exemption is characteristic, above all, of those companies that come to Serbia. In what way? You hire 10 people, you'll be released for five years on the basis of that obligation you have to settle for your employees and the country's relation. You hire 100, it'll be 10 years. Here's your chance. If it works out what we want to work on the flag case, you'll see what it looks like. Those who bring $150m into the flag will be released due to the number of employees, a 10-year obligation to pay taxes on profits to the state. It's a big concession and that's what we do. That's the liberalisation of the work we do. Other examples of very painful, abuses of obvious, and that is why we must bring about those political measures that prevent such a thing. These are examples of student and youth cooperatives. Fifty-year-olds sit in student cooperatives. No one pays them social security, no one settles their obligations to the state, and that only seems to benefit employees and employers. Realistically, no one's working the long run. It's destroying the substance of this country. Everyone in this country should have arranged health insurance, should have a resolved pension insurance issue, not talk about Serbia as a society where 90% of citizens up to 30 are working on black, no regular health or pension insurance issue has been resolved. It's a devastating fact and it's being solved this way. In a year we will see, when the culprits of this situation are found in the economy, when responsibility is found for those who did not respect tax regulations and when all of this is sanctioned, can we further liberalise the fiscal system? But this is our maximum right now because the state has big obligations. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24372	The word has been issued by MP Tomislav Nikolic, a replica, as deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24373	From each appearance in this congregation, at least two arguments must stand. One is knowledge, and the other is data. Decibiles do not achieve anything here either by the minister or by the head of the ruling parliamentary group, which has already become smaller than some opposition parliamentary groups. This is not a tax congregation, and this is not a congregation where you're going to strangle us for five years and boast about your successes in tax policy. We're interested here in how the state stands for us, and that's not measured by the tax rate. You can do it for another year, maybe two, and it's over. We are interested here in what is done in Serbia, who manufactures and we are interested in how the citizens who paid your taxes live. Citizens live worse than when you were in opposition. The economy produces less than at the time you were in opposition. That's the data. You can see that information on the street. Open up some darkened glass of your cars, walk down the street with you who are more visible. I called the Socialists at a time when they were too raped. Take a walk along the street, which people know themselves, to see what it looks like when the people are pleased with you, and when the people applaud you. It's not a good situation in the country. Don't brag too much. Don't mention refugees anymore because no meal gives them state. Don't mention refugees. Don't mention the pensioners. What's with the country pensions? What are you three months late for retirement? What have you achieved? In the castle hall and tossing. ) Not true, pensions are at the same level of delays you found them at despite donations; 20% of the budget is filled with sponsorship and donations; take down the citizens of that 20% burden. You can't just go out here and yell how good it is. It's good for you and for us who are in these benches. It's no good for the people. That's why you don't have a candidate for president. That's why you don't give extraordinary parliamentary elections. That's why he's losing your candidate. If it all worked so well, you would now be like Milosevic when he was strongest to call the snap elections, to get four more years of office. You hold on to the two years you have left. Here you are in Serbia's reform, in which other parliamentary group do you have confidence that it will remain a quorum when voted? In what other parliamentary group do you trust this law, especially the first one, to be voted? Since you don't understand people that everything went to waste, "fat's gone to waste," as soon as you take off that tax you introduced last year, it's pretty clear to me how far you've come. Don't tell any more citizens. Citizens live this life of yours. To the shame of the nation you've stuck to our cheeks, so we can never wash. But we live economically and socially worse than when you were in opposition. To live better, you must go to opposition. To go to the opposition, we have to win the election, and we'll get the election right after the presidential election, I guarantee you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24374	The word has been given by the People's MP, Hranislav Peric. The Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group has two minutes to go and two other registered MPs, MP Radojko Petric and MP Joc Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24375	Mrs. Komic, you took our time because a group of Banet Ivkovic was formed, so if it's yours, then give it to him from your time. He's not ours. We shut him out of the party, and that's why I don't think we should take SPS time. Therefore, I pray to speak to the end. This package of laws was expected on the agenda, but we expected you to see many reliefs for agricultural producers. [[Zagor - Laughter]] Why didn't you predict a reduction in the excise duty on oil for agricultural works? You had to consider the weather and prices of agricultural products in this season, which were low, the lowest in the last few years. That's why farmers have been dealing with losses this year. When the previous laws were passed, we introduced a tax on a warm meal, a tax on transportation, a regress tax, and we were happy to see that their pension average would increase, but when the incomes went to the budget, then we cut pensions, and at the end of the day, none of them got any of it. In the taxation of weapons, we first taxed all the weapons owned by citizens, and then we freed only those who got those weapons on a gift. That's where we make a double mistake. The state gives him a gun and you release him from taxes, and a worker or a farmer who can barely afford to buy one hunting rifle -- we need to charge taxes from them. Our position is that every citizen who owns one hunting weapon should be freed from tax payments and charged for more than one. And this package of tax laws... (President: Three minutes, MP. )......................................................................................................... It will not be fair for all citizens of Serbia, because according to your proposal, the tax will again be paid by those who are poor, not newly formed rich. The time since you were in power has brought us new rich people, who under your laws will be exempt from paying taxes because they have gained the condition that they can invest a hundred million and more euros, which means that domestic, smaller investors will be bypassed. They'd just have to be...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24376	National MP, three minutes is the time of the SPS MP's group and it's spent, and that's your time to discuss it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24377	I think you really need something to be tolerated; or you need to let us know how long it's our time, if you're making a new schedule, so here it's all the other way around, every MP's group needs to give time like when the first time has to be spent redistributing time because there's been a lot of MP clubs that don't have time.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24378	I thank you for the debate within the time available for your parliamentary group. Thank you. This is a exhausted list of speakers. The People's MP Branislav Ivkovic has the right to reply to the presentation of MP Hranislav Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24379	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I find it very uncomfortable to enter into a petty politics and primitiveism that carries wearing a smaller group of people who privatised a socialist idea in Serbia. [[growls]] Thank God, they're really out of time, but the Socialists in Serbia haven't run out of time. Socialists in Serbia are honest and honest people who will now gather through the Socialist People's Party, and those people who talk about morality and democracy, very often tend to it on the Administrative Committee, should know that democracy in the SPS has nothing left. Since April, they haven't had a quorum for either the Chief or the Executive Board. The party's total privatisation is simply under way, so the Socialists are gathering around the Socialist People's Party. This is not - Banet Ivkovic's parliamentary group. This is a parliamentary group of people's socialists who really want to bring the socialists back to the roots of Svetozar Markovic, Dimitri Tucovic and more recently academics Mihajl Markovic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24380	The right to reply is MP Zarko Obradovic, as president of the SPS parliamentary group. The basis for the replica is the mention in the presentation of MP Branislav Ivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24381	Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I use the right to reply, Article 97(2). Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. Namely, you can really hear everything in this congregation, but when you have to talk about a man who signed the documents that were forged, 30 and some decisions. 30 and some decisions of the municipal committees that were supposed to be [[growls]] formal basis for convocation... [[growls]]
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24382	Excuse me, MP, I'm asking the Assembly for order in the O.R. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24383	Who signed the document - a request to the resolution ministry on the change of persons representing the SPS and the resolution ministry brought evidence; which founded the second party in the meantime; which were on the SPS list; who were excluded from membership; who used all the Statutes established the rights to appeal and the rest; and of course received a relevant answer. And now he's talking about morality. First, she never claimed she had a mortgage on a socialist idea. After all, this new party will pass as well as those that were founded last and last year, and there are; and that is the fate of the parties that participate in the polo life, but morals cannot be talked about by those who do not have. The SPS is represented here by MPs selected from the SPS list - Slobodan Milosevic and the fact is that these mandates belong to the SPS. I must, unfortunately, note that the other day in the federal parliament, an MP from the Democratic Party is excluded from his organisation's membership on the same legal basis that we Socialists are asking for back our mandates. (Glasses - no. Yes, it is. By suspending membership in a political organisation whose lists he was selected from. These provisions are written in the same hand both in the federal and the Republic parliament. The fact that there is no willingness to apply these provisions here is the expression of the political will of the ruling majority, but that will also be the order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24384	The People's MP Cedomir Jovanovic has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24385	Mrs. Komic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I want to bring just a few true facts so that both the Democratic Party and our parliamentary majority will not be brought into a context in which they actually share in the SPS trying to put us down. The fact that you entered this parliament a year ago with Branislav Ivkovic as head of your parliamentary group, and then split up with him, is your party matter. We don't want any part of it. Your party problem is also the fact that the Constitutional Court of Serbia has initiated a procedure to determine the constitutionality and legality of Article 88. Law on the selection of Members of the People, which determines the circumstances under which the term of office of the People's Parliament ends. If, for this reason, the DOS parliamentary group has stopped the process that it has initiated by referring to that member of the law and if the federal parliament is to be taken over, but not in accordance with the Law on the Selection of MPs, but with the Law on the Selection of MPs to the Council of Citizens, which is, therefore, a completely different basis. The essence is identical, but the Constitutional Court has not disputed that law. When the Constitutional Court of Serbia settles the dispute and responds to the contested member of the law, we, as the Administrative Board, will be able to decide fully on the problem that is open. Today we do not want to participate and to confront the Constitutional Court of Serbia. We made that clear on the Administrative Committee and here in Parliament. You have to wait for the decision to be made. Be so patient. We'll see who eventually, within the SPS, was right and wrong, but we don't want to arbitration about it at this point.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24386	The word has been issued by MP Petar Petrovic, an authorised representative of the Soviet Parliament group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24387	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will try to return to what we are here for today, and that is a set of tax laws that the government has given us for consideration, or the Ministry of Finance. I will start with the first law, from the Transport Tax Act; I will only repeat the position of the Soviet Parliament group that this is a clear marketing move by the government, because it is obvious that citizens of Serbia are slowly preparing for some elections, which must be made in the first half of next year. In some ways, the Government and the Ministry of Finance admitted the mistake of not accepting the numerous amendments of all opposition parties last year, and among them, the SSJ, which was heartily committed to oil, or as the people say, "Zaitin, sugar, fat, do not tax." On the other hand, the question arises, apart from the marketing move, which is still being obtained here -- by cutting taxes on these three products literally Serbia's citizens get nothing. Yesterday we heard some data that the average family spends five to six liters of oil, two to three kilos. sugar, etc. This amounts to a circus of 40-50 dinars per family savings per month, and just open up, respected fellow MPs, today's newspaper, and you will see that from 1 January of next year, there is an increase in the cost of compulsory insurance for motor vehicles of 40.7%, and if we know that there is one car in Serbia per family and that the average cost of compulsory insurance is about 2,000 dinars, that means that each family will have to pay an increase of 1,000 dinars, and in this way it is triple-announced what the family will get by abolishing the tax on fat, oil, etc. I would especially like to emphasise Article 5. The law amending and supplementing the Transport Tax Act, i.e. a new Article 54a, provides for penalties for non-accounting on exit from the store. Since tax police officers will certainly get the standard; and for your notice, let me remind you, those who do not know, have norms and traffic and other militias in the Republic of Serbia, that they must respect every day a certain amount, which must be paid in cash, which means that five to ten thousand every traffic millier has to charge from Serbian citizens. It is certain that tax police officers will also get such a warrant that they will have to pay five to 10,000 dinars daily, so the question is whether Serbia's budget will lose or profit. I'm sure, and I repeat it on behalf of the SSJ, that it will profit, because one policeman will sit next to some trafficker and every other citizen, who bought a pack of cigarettes that cost 20 dinars, or a daily newspaper that costs 15 dinars, and there is no bill, stop and say -- go ahead, pay 1,000 dinars, and that goes into Serbia's budget. So there is no improvement in this elimination of the sales tax, except to try to fool Serbian citizens that the government in its reform course is abolishing something and helping Serbian citizens. When it comes to tax cuts from 12% to 14%, so that's some item in the budget, let's be sure, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, that the government would not cut that tax. First, Mr. Minister, in Serbia, some other laws need to be changed, and then the profit tax rates changed. In my opinion, it is necessary to amend the Law on Accounting and Accounting, because under this law it is so easy to damage the final account that the question - who will actually make the final bill to make the profit. However, the minister does not listen, he does not care, he has already agreed with everyone how to press the green button when these laws are passed. But I must, for the sake of the general public, present this on behalf of the SS. When it comes to the law on the use and keeping of certain goods, the question arises, apart from the trophy weapons, will taxes on inherited weapons be paid? Let me explain to you what it's all about -- if father or grandfather have guns, and when what happens happens, they disappear from this world, and that weapon is supposed to remain in the family, whether that weapon can and should inherit one of the descendants, and not pay taxes, because that's again in some way the trophy weapon of that family, so to speak. I think you should consider that and get rid of the tax in the future. In particular, and a little funny for us from the SSJ, it is that the Ministry of Finance proposes a reduction of taxes on cadastrian income; and we only agree with the honourable Mr. Minister, that our agricultural producers do not pay large taxes on catastran income, because since 1994 and 1995, the catastrian income has not changed. But, Mr. Minister, let me remind you that many agricultural products in 1994 and 1995, expressed in stamps, have far higher prices than they have today. Just one example -- those years, the pig was sold at a strawberry market of 3 and 3.5 marks per kg. Live scales, as the people say, and today the price is barely 2 stamps per kilogram. Live scales. The question is - how do you help farmers by reducing taxes on catastrian income, and please give the ministers a reduction in the contributions and other things paid by agricultural producers. One agricultural holding, one agricultural family, which must pay for its four full-year members all obligations towards disability and pension insurance, health insurance, water, etc. It has the smallest item right on catastrian income, and it will pay with a few packs of a little better cigarettes, but this cannot pay, because they are extremely large contributions, and it moves on tens of thousands of dinars. Help agriculture in this way, help farmers, and don't, I say on their behalf, don't reduce taxes on catastrian income, help them in another way. Pay them the right price for their agricultural products, pay them in time, and everything else, and don't do this. He can stay the same, and he'll thank you. When it comes to amendments and additions to the Income Tax Act, you have, among other things, predicted Mr. Minister that athletes must pay that tax. We in the USSR agree that athletes should pay taxes when they close the contract, get money on their hands, etc. But, please, read well, in article 84, what you predicted - in indent 3 and indent 8, if I am well served by memory, you predicted among other things that the tax would also be charged from the financial aid that top athletes receive for outstanding results (that is, indent 3). In indent 8. - athletes will pay taxes when they get national recognition and special credit awards. Does that mean when our shooters, for example? win a gold medal at the Olympic Games and receive five or ten thousand state awards, they must draw 20% of those money and return it to Mr. Djelic, or the state. I don't think there's anything there. That's what the law says. On the other hand, take care of the advertising tax, which athletes wear on their uniforms. Namely, when a sponsor wants to advertise himself and pay a certain amount to a sports collective, and this collective lives, after the collective provides a service, he becomes a taxpayer and pays 20% of the tax to the state on this, and he makes up a ending and has barely asked a businessman to pay him that tax, or that money, so that he can live on it and simply train. Take care of yourself. Minister, please, it wouldn't be bad, listen to the Soviets' advice, help sports, help youth, it'll come back to you for good. In the end, with youth cooperatives, you want to equalize people who work through youth cooperatives with those who work for a certain time in companies, on a month, on two, on three. You have set a negative example here, I think you mentioned that there are 12 youth cooperatives in Vrsec, if good memory serves me. However, do not start hating St. Nicholas because of Nikola, who insulted you. Please take positive examples of youth cooperatives that have helped many young people, many poor people earn money, and do not tax so many youth cooperatives, or people who work through youth cooperatives, because this is one way for youth cooperatives, or people who work there to make money to survive. The social situation in Serbia is extremely bad, very hard to live for. It's not all about taxes. Come on, turn to production, businesses, agriculture. Here, help, give the reforms, they'll be grateful.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24388	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate applying for a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24389	Dear President Micic, fellow MPs, in accordance with Article 137. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I propose that the debate in particular take three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24390	Before I put the motion to the vote, please let us determine if we have a quorum, if we have 126 MPs in the O.R. I'm guessing we have a quorum to decide on. I would like to put to the vote the motion of Parliamentarian Sinisha Mitrovica to hold the debate in detail for three minutes. For 99, against 45, the abstentioned were not voted five out of 149 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal of Sinisha Mitrovica. We move to item 2 of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Tax Tax on Transport You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Bojan Kostreš, Marko Đurišić, Gordana Čomić, Gordana Pop-Lazić, Živanko Radovančević, together Radojko Petrić, Ljubomir Mucic, Rajko Baralić, Jovan Todorovic, Nebojša Jović, Joca Arsić, Rade Bajic, Dusan Cvetković, Hranislav Perić and Miomir Ilic, together Dusan Ilic and Srdjan Petrović, together Gordana Čomić and Marko Đurić, Alexandar Vukić, Tomislav Nikolic, Miroljub Veljković, Živko Selaković, Branislav Kovačević, Siniša Mitrović, Radoslav Radović, together Olgica Kirčanski, Slavica Tatomir and MiroslavoslavHristodul, Marijan Ristič, Marijan Ristić, Štić, Štić and Dragan Ddović. The following MPs have informed, writtenly, that they are withdrawing the amendments: Živanko Radovanchev, to Article 1; Marko Djurisic, to Article 1; Gordana Komic, to Article 1 and to Article 2; Dusan Ilic and Srdjan Petrovic, to Article 1, which they submitted on 8 November 2002, Zoran D. Nikolic, to Article 1 and Vladimir Garčević, to Article 2. I would also like to inform you that the amendment of the Finance Committee to Article 1 has been withdrawn. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee, as well as the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a joint principled search under which the draft law amending and supplementing the Transport Tax Act has been discussed, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Bojan Kostreš submits an amendment proposing to be in front of members1. adds a new member. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee have adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Is anyone else applying for a word? The word is from MP Srdjan Petrovic, deputy president of the DOS-DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24391	Dear Presidency, honourable fellow Members, this amendment makes a proposal to exempt natural gas sales tax in distribution, in a distribution network. I think that, although the government's argument that this should not be accepted for balance-sheet reasons, this amendment should be accepted, because this would put citizens on the same line who are heating up by means of a heat line with citizens who use natural gas in the distribution network for heating of households. The DSS will accept this amendment and vote for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24392	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) National MPs Olga Kircanski, Slavica Tatomir and Miroslav Christodulo together submitted an amendment suggesting that a new member be added in front of Article 1. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Is there an application for a word on this amendment? The word has a folk letter from Olga Kircanski.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24393	My colleagues and colleagues, the idea of this amendment was to reduce the tax rate from 20% to 17%, but thus to allow for greater effects, as it would increase the volume of consumption by reducing sales tax on all products. We considered this to be one of the possible measures to get most of the traffic back into the legal market, by making this tax rate more acceptable and competitive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24394	Thank you. Is there more applications for this amendment? Yeah. ) Please, the word is by MP Jovan Todorovic, authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24395	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, this may be a surprise to you, but the SPS will support this amendment and also propose to the government to think carefully about whether we are ready at this point to think in a way that reduces the overall rate of sales tax from 20% to 17%. I think that the reasons set out in the amendment's reasoning are justified, that they are serious and that the Government should accept this amendment, because this would achieve one of the basic objectives of tax policy both in this and in the coming years, curbing the grey economy. It is clear that tax rates should be tailored to the economic strength of both citizens and businesses. If they are more appropriate to the economic strength, then it is expected that there will be fewer and fewer ones who are motivated not to pay taxes in the state budget, thereby objectively preventing the functioning of the state, social activities, etc. There are different moments that define economic power and population and economy. I remind you of the history of taxes, so when the English decided to introduce a property tax, it was a matter of criteria, on which basis they would tax that property. They said, well, whoever has the house will pay taxes, and then they thought about how much tax, so they said, who has more windows on the house will pay more than anyone who has less windows. Of course, the English, like all the other taxpayers in the world, began to build windows and thereby reduce their tax base. The government must think in a way that the less it cuts the sheep, the less it cuts it under the skin, but always leaves something for citizens and all other taxpayers, and that in one normal and appropriate way, it bothers them more to pay their tax obligations in a timely and orderly manner. Therefore, the SPS is for this amendment and when we vote on it, we will vote for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24396	The Minister of Finance, Mr Bozidar Djelic, called for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24397	Excuse me, I'd just like to say, as far as this amendment is concerned, the lack of income would be 14.6 billion dinars, 14.5 billion dinars, and that's one and a half pensions. So those who propose this amendment at this point need to explain how we're going to replace one and a half pensions next year. As I have noted, it is true that the sales tax is a burden that is very important and it is the pillar of our public finances. Simply, voting for this amendment would lead to the inability of any vote of our budget at this time. The budget for next year and the pension rights would have to be significantly narrowed down. So that's the implications of this. The second thing, as regards the DSS group representative, the DSS representative, Mr Petrovic, if you would listen to me, Mr Petrovic, is a mess, because this amendment you were talking about is not about gas. I'd just like to say that on that question, about energy, it's very dangerous to drill this system. Experience exists with us and in other countries. I'd like to ask you, if we're already looking at the sales tax, given that there are 89.4 billion dinars of income here, to be extremely careful from further release here. It's to be extensively abused, on the one hand. On the other hand, I just want to say that this amendment that you were talking about wasn't about it, it was about the mule, so you're not voting for something you wanted to vote for. I hope it wasn't confusing, 'cause this is how I got out for a pay phone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24398	National MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group, spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24399	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, all participants in the session, and not MPs, are required to respect Article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that is, respect the dignity of the National Assembly. He who looked at the minister as he went out for a pay phone would have thought that a devil had walked into the National Assembly. I'm a veteran...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24400	Please respect the dignity of the Assembly and the dignity of the person.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24401	I am a veteran in this National Assembly, I received warnings, and I was expelled and when I respected the dignity of the National Assembly and when I did not. My dignity, the dignity of the People's Parliament, not a single president of the National Assembly has ever respected it, so I see you don't respect it either. But don't you think of saying, for God's sakes, that you're jumping over the bench, when there's a way that all the people in this room get in and out of line -- and that doesn't bother you. It bothers you that I warn the minister. I didn't come here to watch his acrobatics. I came here to discuss the Tax Act. With his performance, he ruined his whole story. Now we're going to lose one-and-a-half pensions if we take down the total tax rate at 17, and it doesn't say the 8 billion releases he's proposing right now. Well, that's half a pension, so how are we gonna make it up to you? How are we going to make up for it? You've filled your budget with tax returns, and there's less of them. You'll see it next year, this year has gone well, you boast it's almost, and November will fill the budget, I know it very well. I warned you yesterday that you'd filled the budget. As soon as the budget's full, that's what somebody's done, somebody's mother knocked on somebody's face about it. I repeat to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, if this is the most diligent minister, the most capable, most educated, let him lead the economy, let him run internal affairs, find these criminals and murderers, so when he can jump this big a man means he's really ready to do everything in his life.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24402	No more logins for the word on this amendment. The MP Gordana Pop-Lazic submitted to the 1st amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24403	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, by amendment to Article 1. - It changes Article 11 which treats products of freed sales taxes - I ask that, in addition to oil, fat and sugar, the majority of the citizens in all these items that you have listed, much more than what you obtain through humanitarian organisations, or personal computers, even less jet fuel, although it is important, tax exemptions and products such as food for infants, meat, fish, milk processing, whose term of life is less than five days, because it would really have an impact on the standard of citizens. The main reason why we're asking for tax exemption is because today a large number of people in Serbia live on the edge of existence, on the verge of hunger, and statistics say they're already a million hungry. Today you have to buy for one family of four kilos of bread, at least a liter of milk or a liter of yogurt or another dairy product. These products are not all tax-free, but bread is, but flour, salt, and water are not, and bread is made of, and they are not made of what I do not know. So, if we could get rid of that sales tax, you'd be cheaper yourself. I told you yesterday about oil and sugar, the way you freed them from sales taxes, you saved me 26 dinars a month, and if you cut off meat, which every other day, on the third day, I have to buy or process milk, that's where you'd save me up to a thousand dinars a month. What is particularly important, and where I demand tax exemption, these are all kinds of books - scientific, professional publications, works in the field of literature, I mean betristry, textbooks, school supplies. Do you, Minister, know how much school supplies and textbooks cost? Every year, I have at least 15,000 dinars to provide for my children. How much are the books for the students? That's impossible today and with this salary that I have as a folk MP, I'm already in a situation to copy books to children, I can't buy them. It's extremely humiliating. That's got to get rid of the sales tax. With clothes and shoes, it would be a real saving for socially endangered people. Today, we are all socially endangered, perhaps two or three percent in Serbia can afford everything necessary in one month. Everyone else is calculating whether this month or this season, and we're still living in a country that has a continental climate and four seasons, can we have shoes for every season? We can't, Minister, we can't take the kids. That's what you should think about right now, not talking about how nice we live. When a man listens and looks, he really thinks - beauty in the country, and when he comes home and when they start pulling his sleeves and looking for him, and you don't have where to give, then you see where you are. Think about this amendment if you want to fix the situation. You have to admit that this is not tax cuts, it's tax cuts. The tax was 9%, you increased it to 20%, now you're reducing it to 17%, and you're saying that only three and a half billion budgets will be damaged. What's three and a half billion? There'll be an increase in the price of electricity, you'll get that money out of it, 20 percent of the electricity tax goes. That's what hurts us, we can't pay for it anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24404	Is there more applications for this amendment? Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24405	Since MP Gordana Pop-Lazic explained in detail what social categories would be protected by accepting this amendment, I don't think there's any need to tell you that it's about children and those who want to read and learn something in life. That's why I'd like to talk about the release of goods, which is not released, and it's foreseen by our amendment. It is interesting that the government of the Republic of Serbia frees the sales of personal computers and software. This directly protects the contract, signed with Microsoft, under which it will, based only on the legalisation of the user programs that we now have in Serbia, earn huge money and make more accessible personal computers and software for the citizens. To tell you the truth, we've done it without taxes so far. It was cheap for us, and this Microsoft guy didn't ask anyone when they bombed us and when they destroyed our economy and killed our kids, whether or not taxes were paid in this country. And you ran to meet all their demands immediately to all our enemies. I don't care if Microsoft makes money on its programmes in Serbia or not. I like not to make a penny. You'll put in a blockade, anyone who goes online, will block his Microsoft computer, and until he licenses the software, he won't be able to work anymore. But there are those of us who don't use the Internet and we use both the computer and Microsoft's programs very well. If he made it up for us, it's good for him. The other thing is the MG1 jet fuel that you make very cheap for foreign carriers. When it is known that you gave them the best tickets to get out of the country, that first foreign planes are on the same line, on which in the day after the flight JAT, our citizens who travel to another country arrive after work hours, and those who travel by a foreign air carrier arrive at the beginning of their working time in the country they are going to. Just let them get the cheapest speech with us, and we don't have the opportunity to supply our airline with cheap fuel. That's why we're going to have short lines, so eventually the plane can go back without the tanking, because his fuel is extremely expensive in other destinations, and they're going to get the cheapest fuel here, to yell at us, to cut our hair. Now that they're going to get that fuel without taxes, our kids won't get baby food without taxes. This is so placed on the scale, as much as the scale is raised on one side, must be added on the other side to make it even. The effects of that jet fuel, and you release foreign companies, because they are endangered in their business, must reflect on our children. And that's why drinking water is taxed.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24406	Is there any more applications for this anamdnau? No, there isn't. ) The MPs Radojko Petrovic, Ljubomir Mucic, Rajko Baralić, Jovan Todorovic, Nebojsa Jović, Joca Arsic, Rade Bajic, Dusan Cvetkovic, Hranislav Peric and Miomir Ilic together submitted their submissions to the 1st amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does a representative of the applicants of the amendment want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24407	Along with a group of SPS MPs, I have proposed an amendment to Article 1 practically amending Article 11 of the existing law. In addition to what was proposed for release, we have suggested that tax exemption should also apply to dairy products, baby equipment, baby food, clothing and footwear to Confect No. 8, as well as to release textbooks, school supplies and studies. It seems to me that the government has accepted one of the DSS amendments to release textbooks or books, and that's good, but I think there might have been a release of these other proposed goods. For this we have given an explanation and I want to repeat it here to you and the government representative, as well as to the general public, which motivated us to give this amendment. In the case of dairy products, one of the essential dairy products on the market is cheese made of that milk. His traffic takes place mostly in the markets, untaxed. Over 92% of the white cheese produced is sold on the market and 8%, up to 10% in the store. Part of this product can be taxed on sales tax. I think it's a small amount. Our second argument is that these cheeses that are made in dairy are better quality, that they are under complete health care, that they should be equated with these other products, that I'm not talking about baby equipment here, that I'm not talking about baby food. There's been a lot of talk about that. And I'm not talking about teachers, because, as I said, here's the solution: to free the textbooks of sales taxes. That wouldn't be some big blow to the budget. The budget could be second-guessed. One of the possible ways, here's to making a joke, can also be these parliamentary transactions, to pay taxes on changing groups, on changing attitudes, etc. I say I make a joke. I think these amendments should be considered and at least partially, if not fully adopted, this amendment of ours. I don't think we had an understanding. If we had an understanding before, it wouldn't have been taxed either. And just to add, these animal fat producers have already managed, they raised the price before we passed the law, so pig fat won't be so cheaper because of the tax deduction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24408	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate applying for a word? Please, there is a word from MP Jovan Todorovic, the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24409	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, I think my colleague Arsic has given enough arguments to convince those of you who are hard-core in some positions that, precisely, what is proposed, too, is to release the sales tax. I don't suppose there's a man here in the O.R. who won't agree with the SPS's position that we don't have anything to do with our children. The time in which we live is that we objectively without the help of the government, even in this way, cannot meet the basic family needs and, above all, the needs of children. Your argument that we have received to reject the SPS amendments, in the sense that this would be a return to the old concept and that the vast number of items or goods, or whatever you want, proposed for release, does not really stand. Even if it stands, which would be a shame to go back to an old concept that's better than that that objectively doesn't protect the family, doesn't stimulate the birth of children, and we know what kind of situation we're in. Secondly, I don't think there's any valid, logical reason not to equate the processing industry, especially in this area of agriculture and dairy production with agricultural production in the land. In economic terms, this is important, but it is also important from the point of view of consumer health. It is also clear to you that more than 90% of the turnover of dairy products in markets is difficult to provide adequate consumer health protection and that the degree of certainty, i.e. greater protection, is much more present in dairy and other processing facilities that produce it. On the other hand, I guess it's clear that most of these dairy products are used by children. For these reasons, I do not know how much reduced revenue would be in the budget balance, but I think there are many reasons why the minister would accept this SPS amendment and propose to exempt the sales tax.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24410	The word has a minister, Mr Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24411	Just a comment. Of course we're all worried about our children, but it's strange to hear from one of the MPs who led this country for a decade that was a big concern for children. When we saw what we inherited, i.e. when it was two years late with children's allowances, families who didn't have what their legal belongings were, when the milk wasn't on the shelves, when we saw what condition they were in for carefree children. Let us remember not only the angels, but the other examples we had, the conditions in which our hospitals were located. Take a look at the Institute for Mother and Child in whose condition and who built villas on Zlatibor with money that was supposed to go for hospital equipment; and finally our children who were then torn apart, many of them around the world. I don't think that's a child's concern. It's got nothing to do with the law. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24412	Does anyone else sign up for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Veselinović. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is the applicant applying for a word? No, I don't. ) Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate applying for a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Gordana Komic and Marko Djurisic together submitted to the 1st amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24413	Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment that Parliamentarian Marko Djurisic and I have submitted to Article 1 has three interesting features for this debate in particular. The first is that in the largest part, the two-thirds part, in which I was a proponent with my colleague Đurisic, is contained in the amendment of the MPs Ilic Dusan and Petrovic Srdjan, who accepted the government and which made the amendment an integral part of the bill, when it was accepted by the proposing and the committees in charge. This brings us to the procedural question, in which way we will conduct the debate on this amendment and what happens to the adoption or refusal of amendments whose part is already included in the proposal, which is good, as it relates to computers, jet fuel, on products obtained from donation contracts and on textbooks and teaching tools, which is part of the amendment of colleagues Dusan Ilic and Srdjan Petrovic. What makes our amendment different is the proposal to do the same with sunflower and soy shotgun and immunophylaxis and diagnostics in veterinary medicine. It is something that is only a recognition of reality, as no funds are being raised from Serbian citizens on the basis of sales tax. And the most important part of natural gas delivered to individual consumers via a gas distribution network. The request in the government's explanation states that this is a normal requirement for MPs to abolish the sales tax to individual consumers, but in order to only extend the virus of total tax exemption to transport, which must be exclusively social character. It's best when the promoter gives you an argument for your explanation. Minister, this is a social character, because it is 350,000 households that are placed in a completely unequal position by the fact that gas is the only thing not included in municipal services and the only thing citizens pay more and more than they pay legal persons, businesses and all those who power, telephone, water etc. They pay more. A proposal for a solution: a proposaler may adopt my amendment and then assign competent committees to carry out a technical redistribution. I can also ask opposition MPs and MPs of the ruling majority to vote in favour of MP Bojan Kostreš's amendment, which comes down to a request for the exemption from the sales of individual gas consumers. In any case, we make a commitment to the applicants of the amendments, when the draft budget is in order, to say where the missing funds will be complemented.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24414	The word is from MP Srdjan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24415	Dear colleagues, the Honorable Presidency, we have now reached the gas. The Social Democrats League had two amendments to Article 1. So there was a confusion. Why do we have to release natural gas? Once again to clarify, amendments and additions to this law since December last year, municipal services have been exempt from sales taxes. Now we have a situation that in large cities, where remote heating exists, this service is freed from sales taxes, while on the other hand, households that are heated over a distribution network, meaning completely in one legal process they are heating up on natural gas, paying sales taxes. This includes households in the cities of Vojvodina, as well as in many cities in Serbia, which have natural gas heating, and more, are in an unequal position. We do not think that it should be put in a better position of household living in residential buildings in thermal areas and that it is not a social category but even a privilege compared to households that are heated through natural gas. That's why we're voting for this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24416	The People's MP Tomislav Nikolic came to the floor.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24417	This amendment is acceptable because in most cases it resembles the amendment of the SRS, except that these extensions are less tax-free than in our amendment. However, there are surpluses here that should be classified so that the member of the law is shorter and more transparent and clear. In fact, Mrs. Comic suggested that condoms be free of sales taxes. That means a little bit more illiterate for me and these-- condoms. That's point 22. But this is already the applicant for the amendment provided for in point 19, which says that the sales tax will be exempt from the products obtained under the grant agreement with international financial organisations. Well, that's what comes to us based on donations from these international financial organizations. It's coming because we got the power to use it when it hits the people. When we have removed this power, there will be no donations for what you do to the people. No one will ever do that to the people.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24418	The Minister of Finance, Mr Djelic, called for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24419	Of course, this house is sovereign and will vote for what it thinks it should vote for. When it comes to this amendment, it is recommended that it be better to vote on Mr. Kostreš's separate amendment earlier than to vote on an amendment that is in collapsing with something that has been accepted and is already an integral part of this law. But then if we look at the essence of things that's a way of heating and from the point of view of the neutrality of a tax system, then this is something that's taxed. Those who heat up on electricity -- consumers, they pay sales taxes, and that's already said. There is one amendment to the SRS to free electricity from paying sales taxes, which has one major fiscal effect. We can't accept that. So if the sales tax on this type of heating is abolished then they are placed in an unequal position by other citizens. Believe me, I've said more than once how much I like to go to Vojvodina, but if we look at Vojvodina's average salaries are now 15-20% higher than in the rest of the Republic and in that case, because it's concentrated exclusively on Vojvodina, then we have a portion of our citizens who, by this look, are placed in an unequal position if you vote on Mr. Kostreš's amendment, or in a privileged position compared to those who are heating up with electricity. From the point of view of neutrality and given what environments we are talking about, and that while electricity was on uncompared non-economic bases, and we could talk about it, but since it is approaching its economic price, and the economic price should get closer to everything, in which case the tax does not need to change the relationship in the decision on how citizens should be heated. Here, just so much, and of course as a proposing, I think it would violate the neutrality of the system, and when we look at the essence, it wouldn't be fair. Of course, it's up to you. If you're voting, it's better, because of the harmonisation of this law, to vote on Mr. Kostresh's amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24420	No more logins for the word on this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Tomic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24421	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the essence of this amendment is far-reaching, but it is obvious that there was neither will nor in the previous tax reform that was spoken of a year ago here nor today. There is no will to pay attention to the area of culture. First of all, I think about publishing and printing scientific and literary works, school books, textbooks, school literature, teaching and all that the educational profession needs, but here first of all I think about the part that concerns students and students. When we add more expensive scholarships to that, then, on more ground, there are parafiscalities that simply burden the family household budget anyway when it comes to schooling children. When we add this to the fact that the significant cost of renting is that instead of the stamp, the euro is now used as a parameter, so instead of 200 marks you pay 200 euros for the apartment, then it is clear that you are in a situation that as a good parent or as a member of a family household you do not have the financial opportunity to provide the right and adequate support for schooling children. Messages are constantly being sent - people are going abroad and so on, and here our children are increasingly facing the most serious problem possible - the procurement of textbooks, studies, scientific books, etc. It's an area of culture. Let's not just spray ourselves with the dust saying about culture as about the need of citizens, and on the other hand, we don't adequately burden the budget. A family household or a simple student who had to strike this fall and do everything to cut tuition, because they don't have financial resources for that kind of thing. It is very important to treat this area in an adequate manner for another reason: this does not seem to be an area that has such a degree of commitment in the tax sense that it represents just as much revenue for Serbia's budget. Therefore, there should have been more hearing here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24422	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. ) Parliamentarians Dusan Ilic and Srdjan Petrovic, the Government and the Committee on Finance, adopted this amendment together, and the Legislative Committee believes that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Kostreš. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Is anyone else answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the amaniac want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Siniša Mitrovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Olga Kircanski, Slavica Tatomir and Miroslav Christodulo submitted to the 1st Amendment together. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. There is a word of the People's Messenger Miroslav Christodullo.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24423	We agree with the amendment of MPs Ilic and Petrovic. The difference between everything else is the word - software license. There's been a misunderstanding here, I think, since the word "licence" is not of our origin. The one who wrote answers to these amendments, when we suggested that software licenses, along with software, computer equipment and personal computer, be exempt from paying sales taxes, they replied that the license was not subject to that law, but to the Copyright Act. That's true, when you buy a license for Marlboro, for example, it's copyright, you bought it. But this is about another interpretation of that word. In fact, there's been a translation of the English word license here, which is supposed to mean a license. So this is the goods of broad consumption paid by software buyers. It's a product. Mr. Minister, it's about the goods, it's not about copyright, it's about the goods, which are paid by all software users. So what computer equipment is compared to computer, it's a software license compared to software. When you come into the store and buy speakers for a computer or a graphic card, they can tell you -- see, it's not a computer, you can't get rid of taxes. That's what we added here, so we say - the computer equipment is being released. So that's what we and that part are getting rid of. When you buy one software, so you need, Mr. Minister, to buy software licenses for more users, so that one CD when you need to install on 30 computers, and you have a license for five computers, you have to go to a company that sells software to buy a license for another 25 computers. It's a commodity of broad consumption. It's the same thing about software as computer equipment. So it was just intensity. Otherwise, we fully agree and commend the government for suggesting that the computer and everything about it be free of the sales tax. That, of course, is an incentive for everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24424	The Minister of Finance, Mr Bozidar Djelic, called for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24425	Which is why it was proposed by the Government of Liberation, which is because, I must say, to my surprise, in international accounting standards, it was not possible to interpret, if we took legal persons who bought software, that it was simply, as you said, goods of broad consumption, but, to a great surprise, and we couldn't even solve it with some international associations of accountants, with whom we talked about it, to see if we could do it in the rule, in what the basic means of legal persons, change it at a federal level, that we didn't have to go to a legal change. It was not possible, because there, strictly speaking, if something is not done at the legislative level, as we are proposing today, and what we feel this house will accept, it was treated as investing in an immaterial vision of property, something very strange; and because of that, I would say, it's better to have a broad term, as it is written here, and then we'll be able to, of course, ensure that a healthy mind is applied, and that, if software is already purchased, that there's no difference there, if you buy one license for one person or when you equip your company with more licenses. So we're going to clarify that by some sublegal act. As far as the equipment itself is concerned, of course, it is necessary and I think there is such a formulation, that suddenly hardware, i.e. computer, doesn't become the whole house, so that absolutely every furniture is treated like equipment. Let's think of some examples, yesterday we talked about children's clothes, remember orthopaedic aids, when, before you adopted the changes last year, the ticks were an orthopaedic aid, and that should have been cleaned out.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24426	The word is from MP Srdjan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24427	Dear Presidency, dear colleagues, allow me to take this opportunity to take advantage of Mr. Christodul's amendment to say why we gave another formulation for this release, as it was in the proposal, personal computers and software. In fact, the government explained that there was an incentive, i.e. the release of sales taxes on personal computers and software, to stimulate economic development. We believe that this argument does not stand, because so far, computers bought by legal entities are treated as basic assets, i.e. equipment, and so far, no sales tax has been paid. On the other hand, we already had in some other laws, i.e. there is still a law on profit tax, incentive, credit, tax credit for accelerated depreciation, i.e. an accelerated depreciation of computers and accounting equipment, so that the economy itself already has certain incentives. The second question is whether information equipment is currently being used adequately in our economy, since our economy, as we have heard and we all know, is not working; IT cannot help much. So some other things need to happen so that we can use this existing equipment, which we have in our economy, in an adequate way. Then, it's such an area, as you all know, where there's a rapid ageing of equipment, and I'm afraid that, until our economy starts, all of the equipment that exists and that might be bought in some future period, that it's not, as it's said, morally obsolete. What should be encouraged - buying computers in the citizenship sector. That's where the sales tax was paid by now. Normally, the one who bought the computer through authorized distributors, and that should encourage the legal purchase of personal computers. That's why we gave, in some way, personal computers, computers, computer equipment and software to the same category of goods as book publications, and we also proposed that the sales tax be taken down for textbooks. In order to do all of this in a normal manner, the department's opinion is needed, in order to avoid abuse, so as to avoid over-expanding computer and computer equipment. Those exceptions were not made by us, that the minister granted approval. This already existed in the first Transport Tax Act, since April of last year, regarding goods such as books, publications, etc. We think our amendment is much more systematicly editing this area and points where the right use is, and that's the computer as a teaching tool, as a means of education, and above all for the citizen sector.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24428	No more reported for the word on this amendment. National MPs Olga Kircanski, Slavica Tatomir and Miroslav Christodulo together submitted an amendment proposing that a new member be added after article 1. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. There's a word from the People's Messenger, Olica Kircanski.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24429	As with the previous amendment, we handled the same motives here when it comes to sales tax services. Just to underline that we wanted to potentiate the increase in consumption and the increase in the volume of services, in order to increase the tax base. I don't think we should talk about it right now. I looked at what the projection looked like, or the budget for the previous period, so the relationship between the sales tax, income tax and excise tax was compared to 1:1:2. The draft budget, which is to be found on the agenda, states the following relationship: sales tax 2, according to income tax 1, and excise duties 1. I think you're already predicting an increase in the inflow into the transport tax budget. I think the inflow from sales taxes was even higher this year than it was projected by the budget. Also, I wanted to abuse in the end, and we support this amendment by Mr. Kostreš, regarding the release of gas for households from sales taxes. I don't think there's any reason to be discriminated against by electricity-heating citizens, because the government has already tried a large number of measures to stimulate the transition to other ways of heating, to reduce electricity consumption in this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24430	No more reported for the word on this amendment. The People's MP, Alexander Vukic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is there an application for a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Gordana Komic and Marko Djurisic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Finance Committee has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I ask the Government's representative to plead for the amendment. The government does not accept this amendment. Is there an application for a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Stevan Guduric. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Is there an application for a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24431	I may not have watched for five seconds as long as it took you, but did you read that he submitted the amendment, Alexander Vukic, to Article 2. (President: Of course I did, you didn't follow closely. That was kind of like a machine gun, something fast-tracked. You can't wait for the situation to happen so someone doesn't happen to tell you something about the amendment. For you there is a good congregation in which no one will say anything about any amendment to any law. (President: Mr. Nikolic, this is your failure and I ask you to use your time for...) Except that sometimes you pay attention to your failures, too, is not enough just to watch my failures. You have the same MP here three times, coming out for a pay phone, and it's all about the first member of the law. Article 1 of the law, and three times the same MP comes out with three different amendments. Now you're talking to me about missin'. But let's talk about the bill. Why did we suggest that the electricity consumed in the household be abolished the sales tax? Because since June, you've taken about 800 million citizens from Serbia on behalf of the newly introduced maintenance fee, which I don't know how to introduce Elektroprivreda, which costs 75 dinars a month each of us who have a connection to electricity and another 15.2 dinars in the name of the finance ministry; so the finance ministry has raised 167 million in four months, the Elektroprivreda 668 million dinars. Now you're going to tell me that sometimes it's going to cost the electricity, that no new tariff has been introduced, that the block system has not been introduced, and at the small door you're constantly picking up electricity, the one we have to spend in the household. Of these stolen money from the population, through the regulations you finance Serbia's Elektroprivreda and yet you say that for balance-sheet reasons you cannot lift the electricity tax. Until the electricity tax is lifted, I won't believe we have good power. As for these famous fiscal registers, and not accepting amendments that even a personal computer can serve for that purpose, we have heard that the government will budget next year to allocate funds to help all those who will be obliged to introduce fiscal cash registers. Huge money, pre-contracted with cashiers, now as the roads were pre-arranged with the Survine Mafia, so two months before the money was made for the reconstruction of the roads they acquired on the lysing machine. Two months before anyone in Serbia, except members of the government, knew the money would arrive to repair the roads, the Surcin mafia bought machines and no one could compete with it anymore. In a few months of work, she paid off her machines and now she's making money. Here's the fiscal registers now. The government in the budget immediately separates the money, to help those who will now be burdened with the introduction of fiscal tills. We don't even know how much one unit will cost, we don't know how many units enter the country. He knows the minister, he knows the lobby, but they don't know the MPs and they don't know the citizens of Serbia, it will be introduced. The minister promised us yesterday -- we'll include our producers and the electronics industry from Nis. When did she make cash registers? The electronics industry from Nis? How long it takes them to get the program, how much it'll cost their product when those on ships in duty-free zones make it almost free. When he gets to our country, it costs. Just make it up - the administration gives birth to the administration: three workers - the brigade, three brigades - the manager, three managers - one boss, three bosses - the boss of the bosses, the small store - the cashier, the bigger store - two or three cashiers. The officers and those tax collectors will wait before the store and hold onto the throat. Show the bills, show what you bought. What are you going to turn this country into? But you work for the money that's coming and you watch, as soon as there's an announcement that some money will arrive, how to get it into your pockets, and from that, the citizens of Serbia have nothing. You get rid of it. This Serbia, since you've been in power, in this assembly only talks about taxes -- now raise taxes, now put down. I've been an apostle longer than you have been in other times, but life runs by us for that time. It's all good next door, we're sitting here in the Assembly. Look, there are more opposition MPs in the O.R. than those who belong to those who are in power, if you know who you are in power at all, or all of you are in power when it's necessary and when it's nice, and when you're supposed to get points next to some pre-election campaign, then you go out here and you criticize the government. When laws are to be passed, you will vote for all these laws. Your performances behind this speaker are collecting political points, and when it comes to voting, you'll all be in, most will be in. Otherwise, if all those who spoke for this speaker against these laws, if they voted against, these laws could not pass. Who among you is all divided here, who has a divided personality structure, goes out for a pay phone and says one thing, and when he presses a button, presses the green one, and why does he press it? Why does he throw his personal integrity under his feet and voices... (President: Time and Theme. I know it bothers you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24432	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Kovacevic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Is there an application for a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Radojko Petrovic, Ljubomir Mucic, Rajko Baralić, Jovan Todorovic, Nebojsa Jović, Joca Arsic, Rade Bajić, Dusan Cvetkovic, Hranislav Peric and Miomir Ilic submitted the 3rd amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does anyone report this amendment? The word has a national emissary Dusan Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24433	Dear Presidency, Mr. Minister, I ask you not only to take me as an opposition MP in my performance, but to objectively consider the situation concerning this amendment. We suggested that the daily press and the part of the goods sold through the punk machines should not be followed by fiscal cash registers. I'm saying this because I think if it's a gas station, the fiscal registers should exist and they can only exist in the building and in the houses where the goods are sold. They can't be on the machine itself, and it's normal to sell part of the goods sold there as an additional range, selling through fiscal registers. It's almost impossible for 2,000 customers a day to serve two vendors at a gas station, as many Jugopetrol stations as state stations, which are asked to continue to reduce the workforce, because it will be absolutely impossible. Rest assured, the safer the state and the state will not be damaged in terms of taxes because there are no fiscal registers at gas stations. I repeat, ten years back now, and you'll see how much each facility has sold that kind of fuel. There's absolutely no possibility of any smuggling, any tax evasion going on. So I ask you once again to seriously consider this amendment and accept our proposal, the SPS, that these facilities are not necessarily introduced fiscal cash registers and issue bills, because it will be almost impossible. As far as the press is concerned, all of us who have been buying the press for years know how to buy the press, we all have our seller, we pass the kiosk, we throw 15 or 20 dinars, and we take the newspaper. I also stayed in the West, bought newspapers, and maybe because I'm a Balkan never, believe me, I didn't take the bill when I bought the press abroad. It's possible, I say and repeat, I'm a Balkan, because I leave the money there and I get the paper. When it comes to newspapers, please consider whether it is possible for those who sell at least newspapers to be freed from having to issue an account for those 15 dinars, this is how much the paper costs today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24434	Is there an application for a word? Yeah. ) Here you are, MP Jovan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24435	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I am fully aware that the fate of this amendment will be as the fate of most amendments submitted by the SPS over the past year and a half. I am also sure that if the assembly majority votes such a solution in the law on the obligation to install fiscal cash registers at both kiosks and gas stations, that life and practice will prove impossible and impregnable, and that at the beginning of next year we will certainly have a proposal from the Government or the Minister to abolish that provision of the law. People, so what's more normal than having to make sure we don't have to do everything that we should possibly do in retail facilities, which can get in normally, carry a bag or I don't know what else, you put goods in it, you get an account, and the thing is clean. I buy the papers when I go to work and we're all in a hurry, someone got out of the car and packed it in the wrong place, etc. Now we have to wait for the bills from the newspaper salesman to meet one of the requirements that we have here in law. The stubborn insistence on it will create unnecessary crowds around both the kiosk and the gas stations; I mean, just unnecessary anxiety, and none of it will benefit much. That's one thing. Secondly, the fiscal registers are in themselves a problem and it seems that here no one will understand or say openly. I don't know if anyone's counted how many retail facilities, including these kiosks and gas stations, will be obliged to buy these fiscal registers and how much cash. That's a lot of cash. For these reasons, the minister proposed in the budget 500m dinars as a government subsidy for the purchase of fiscal tills. Who's gonna make those tills? Are these cash registers, and you're laughing at it, gentlemen, I assume that these cash registers will be imported and that even on the basis of the fiscal cash registers, we'll have a significant outflow of foreign exchanges that we take from citizens and put into the National Bank or into business banks. Then Governor Dinkic boasts we have high foreign reserves. Since we don't have export production, then we'll be taking loans from the IMF to post-poo protect this course, but to encourage further imports. Among other things, the fiscal registers, and we don't even know today, even though there might be a tender. The minister says, maybe even more tenders. What it's all about, is the fiscal registers at kiosks and gas stations the most pressing problem that needs to be solved in the context of tax policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24436	Is anyone else applying for a shortcut to this amendment? No, I don't. ) On the 5th amendment, in the same text, the MPs Radojko Petrić, Ljubomir Mucic, Rajko Baralić, Jovan Todorovic, Nebojsa Jović, Joca Arsic, Rade Bajić, Dusan Cvetković, Hranislav Perić and Miomir Ilic, joint MPs Olgica Kircanski, Slavica Tatomir and Miroslav Krisodulo and individual MP Miroljub Veljković and MP Zivko Selaković, together. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here is the word of the People's Messenger Miroslav Christodulo.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24437	We, the promoters, on behalf of our Social Democratic Party, think as well as the promoter of these amendments to the law that citizens need to own the account or cut of the tape with them. Of course, because of its home budget, but also because of the suppression of the gray economy and everything that it says in that explanation. Unlike the promoter, we do not consider that a physical person, i.e. the purchaser of the product should be fined for a fine of 1,000 dinars, if that account or the cut of the tape does not belong to him immediately after leaving the store or other facility. So it's not disputed for us to keep that account, we just don't want to do a repression on the wrong person. The repression should be carried out according to a store that does not have that cash register and does not issue accounts, not to a citizen who does not have that account with him directly on his way out of the store. It's not the only reason, there's another reason. This measure is not enforceable at all. "Good afternoon, will you show me your bill?" "I didn't even buy anything." "What's in your bag?" "I bought that three hours ago." "Where's your bill for that?" You were due three hours ago to ask me right after you left the store." How will you prove when I bought the product in my bag?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24438	Miroljub Veljkovic, the applicant of the amendment, answered the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24439	Mr. Djelic, I'm glad you're in good physical condition, as you were gypsies and skipped that bench out of place a half hour ago, I'm really impressed. However, so far it has not been a practice in this home for ministers to skip the bench to go out for the assembly pay phone. But under these reform processes, it seems to be a new practice. The only thing I don't know is how they're gonna transfer Kasu, he's on special preparations. You, as a major reformer with all kinds of initiatives and suggestions, have been here before us. However, what you have now suggested is a really kind pearl. You suggested that the tax inspector in front of the store or some public facility where a service appears to be waiting for a citizen and unless he has an account to punish him with 1,000 dinars. There are some misunderstandings. First of all, you haven't answered whether it applies to minors. I already see my daughter in elementary school when there's a big school vacation and the kids are running into the pretzels, this or that, and your harras are squatting around the kiosk and -- you didn't pay, you don't have a bill, give me 1,000 dinars. First you have to explain it here in law. Then, legal basis: who is the authority to search the citizen's bag, the emperor's hosts, etc. Very problematic. At all, the technique itself, I'm really interested in what technique you're going to do. We assume that the law, legal norm, means the suspicious face of the Housewife "N" in Kragujevac, is suspected of not taking an account from the store. So, set up early in the morning of the ambush. The tax inspector set up an ambush outside the house. Before that, of course, obtain from the court a solution that it can carry out a search. Follow the suspicious face, Housewife "N", follow, and she goes from shop to shop and takes the check; she comes into the butcher's shop accidentally and comes out of the butcher shop, the man who worked there, bloody hands, forgets to take it from him, harachlia jumps, taps over. Let's imagine a hypothetical situation like this. For example, Stanko Kovacevic or Mrs Micic go together to a congregation restaurant on creams and beer. There is already a disguised, masked Djelic's tax collector, can be disguised as a journalist, a technical face, etc. The siren that invites the MPs to enter this house here and they immediately rise up as security men, forget to take the bill and tap on the door -- 1,000 dinars apiece. For these reasons, and these misunderstandings, I propose to Mr. Djelic, since this will probably be in the Official Messenger on Friday, that this entire system is being resuscitated on Saturday, the whole methodology. To make one team, you can, and Chad, and Mrs. Micic, since she's already used to dragging her hand into other people's pockets.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24440	I warn you of overtime and I give you notice under Article 101, Mr. Veljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24441	Here I am; to test it out in front of some discotheque in Belgrade on Saturday and to convey valuable experience. Whoever survives that activity, though.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24442	Any of the amendment applicants come forward for a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24443	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SPS has submitted an amendment to Article 5 to delete it. I don't think it's logical to provide punishment for citizens, but there's probably a reason why the law provides for the establishment of a tax police force. Then I understand. You had to provide them with a job. Does it mean that a tax officer can stand in front of a store and anyone who hasn't taken a bill or forgotten it, imposes a fine of 1,000 dinars? Will you make up for the budget deficit this way? Instead of finding a solution to control 5,000 cases in Serbia, you have decided to make a commitment to 7-8 million citizens in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24444	There's a word from MP Zivko Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24445	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, I have submitted the amendment of the MP group of the Serbian Unity Party to Article 5, i.e. a new member of 54, and I have suggested that it be completely deleted. Here's why. The introduction of fines for infringements for natural persons who do not have an account on purchased goods when leaving the store or facility, the SSJ parliamentary group considers inappropriate in relation to the difficult material position of citizens. Just to remind the public that it's a fine of 1,000 dinars, how you get into the store and buy an article worth 50 or 100 dinars, cigarettes, etc. And now you see when you have to pay 1,000 dinars on the street! Furthermore, the question arises: what if the slave buys a child in a supermarket, and the child is neither a taxpayer nor an adult. In addition, to add that low-income people usually return to shops two times a day, because they calculate normally what they're going to buy in the morning. This means that under this sentence citizens would come again with very small incomes. And most of all, almost every MP in his discussion referred to this member, so I would ask the minister to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24446	There is a word from MP Srdjan Petrovic, deputy president of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24447	Dear Presidency, dear colleagues, I call upon the Government to give up this member and accept this amendment, because these cartoons, which we have heard, are not far from the truth. There really can be situations like that. On the other hand, a member of the law himself is said to be punished immediately after leaving the store if he does not own an account. We understand what this member of the law's goal is, but we think the asset is very bad. Keeping the grey economy out of business like this, I'm sure. This may have been how it was done 100-150 years ago, today it's known how it's done, by encouraging a cash-free payment. We can come into a very strange situation and it's very possible for a man to pay the goods through a current account, meaning by issuing a check or using a credit card, not to take the bill with him and be punished because he doesn't have that receipt, and the traffic is completely legally done. We think this is a completely out of date way to solve this big problem, and for these reasons, the government should withdraw this member.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24448	He has the word Tomislav Nikolic, the MP and deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24449	I think you should have given me your word first because our MP group submitted this amendment. And those who have not submitted this amendment should now plead, if they subsequently ask the government to give up, whether they will vote in favour of the law, if this amendment is not accepted. But this is stupid writing, so let's just say it's inconclusive. It's obvious, as well as the law on the ban on smoking in a closed area, he could never have been implemented. Be careful how one part of that member reads, it should be known to the public of Serbia: "The purchaser of the product, i.e. the user of the service provided, is obliged to keep such a tax document immediately after leaving the store or another business facility and to show it at the request of the authority responsible for the control tasks". The question arises at which distance it is "directly upon exit". As it is a misdemeanor procedure, the question arises as to who will legislate the buyer or the one to whom the service has been carried out, in order to obtain information on which to file a criminal complaint. Does that mean the new 30,000 cops, who'll go with the control authorities? And thirdly, as far as yesterday we discussed the tax procedure law and the tax administration; a further vote on the law is expected. In that law, I didn't see that the tax document is what the buyer gets as a bill, that it's a tax document for the buyer. I'm very interested, Minister, in terms of the tax administration and the taxpayer, where the buyer is the holder of some tax document. The IRS is with whoever sold the goods and he has a relationship with the IRS. The customer of the product has no relationship with the tax administration. He is obliged to pay for the goods and I accept that we are changing the Internal Affairs Act, so that immediately after leaving the shop the buyer must have an account to purchase the goods or to introduce bar codes. You go through one system where it either whistles or doesn't scream. He's going to be pissed by his mother because he stole something and didn't scream, he paid everything he bought and finished the job. And now you're introducing fear and blinking here around the kiosk, the store. How much do you think you can hire these control bodies? Will they contribute to the state? He won't do anything, he'll spend our money. And now, you don't like any of the citizens and you say, "Come on, you two follow this whole day." He's got to buy a newspaper, he's got to go to the public bathroom, if he walks around all day an older man, a pensioner, he's got to stop at least twice in the bathroom, you're gonna be in control of either the bathroom or the outside, I still don't know where the controls are going to go. You really make me think you're still partly serious people, rather than making us talk about the situation so we don't discuss anything with you anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24450	The president of the DOS parliamentary group – Serbia's Reform, MP Cedomir Jovanovic, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24451	Mrs. Micic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, I would first refer to that childcare: those who today are concerned about children who will be asked tomorrow for a bill for purchased goods in the store, that is where they should have expressed their concern when they did not pay child support; then when someone's children were sent to war; when they were not prepared to condemn the arrest of someone's children, to withdraw their detention posts in police, to break into universities! It's a banalization and vulgarization of something that's a serious question! What happens if this member of the law is left out? The existing stores that pay taxes and stores that give goods 20% cheaper because they have no obligation to pay that tax, and we will offer citizens again, under the pretext of economic logic, to live a criminal life and to be ashamed of buying in stores 20 percent cheaper because they are poor and participate in what is a tax offense. In all the normal states in the world, you get a bill for what you pay. That account should show, it's your right, but so is your obligation. Since we have very clear experience from comparative law and analysis of such a tax system, we are talking about situations where stores advance goods and offer you as a buyer to buy 20% cheaper, but provided you don't get an account. Now, if you want to play with the state that way, then you'll pay a fine of 1,000 dinars, because you broke the law -- and directly, so, at a time when you're being punished for it by an authorized person, just like when you're being punished on a bus when you don't have a ticket; no one asked us as high school kids or basics whether we're age-old enough to punish us, we've already had to pay the penalty for breaking regulations in city transport. Of course, anything can be mocked, but this is a pointless example. It's your real identification that you can advertise the bill unless you're satisfied with the service, if you want to return the bad product. You're gonna buy some stuff at the store, and what are you gonna do with it tomorrow if you want to get it back?- I'm sorry. There is no bill - or someone will offer you, as is offered today in Serbia, to buy at a black 20% cheaper, but tomorrow they won't tell you when you go to the doctor that there are no medications because the state doesn't have the means to pay them, because someone cheated on the state and did not settle his obligation to it. The account is the right and the obligation and the account should exist in this country and every buyer should know, that by buying the product, they exercise their right, but that they must reconcile the obligation contained in the price of the product. There are in every decent country in the world, there is also in Montenegro, and in Republika Srpska, there is also in BiH, in Hungary, Romania, Bulgaria, Greece, in every store, in civilised Europe, there is an account like your identification and right - and, waiting for you, very clear sanctions if you cannot confirm that you bought the goods in a legal manner. You're pushing Serbia into an illegal market, into a gray economy from which it's trying to pull itself out. That is why we do not support this amendment, but condemn it, because it wants to make this society a collective buyer. We are collectively guilty because we are being treated black, collectively guilty because we have to pay the doctor or the judge if we want to get something up to date and fast, we are collectively guilty if we are looking for someone's right to do so, because we cannot do so, and in order to achieve it it takes years or to agree on Serbian, as it has been done in this country for 200 years! - He can't! The law, the obligation, prescribed by law, let this law be known to everyone and answer for it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24452	People's MP Jovan Todorovic, an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group, and then Dragan Markovic, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24453	My people, we lead things to absurdity! I mean, what Mr. Jovanovic was saying, it just doesn't stand! It's not that I'm not going to take the bill for the goods I've been shopping at some retail facility, it's that I just lost it and I have to pay a fine of 1,000 dinars for it! That's the problem! You know, ladies and gentlemen, a man goes to the store, on average, at least once a day. In a month's time, if he loses his bill, he should pay the fine of 30,000 dinars! Where do you come up with the idea of a fine of 1,000 dinars, please, and people getting 4,000 or 5,000 dinars of pension, which they receive in the first part, and so much in the second part; now you've found a pensioner who's distracted and he's thrown away the bill somewhere, to pay 1,000 dinars, because he's not there at the moment when someone's looking for it and where he's looking?- I'm sorry. The other thing, like Chedo, is the responsibility of a kid who lost his bill, and he got the goods, and the one who sold the goods to him issued the bill, so he didn't want to tax evasion. It's all regular, but there's no accounting for a child that you're going to punish with 1,000 dinars. Thirdly, apparently, you gentlemen don't understand that there's something else called the category of "religion", especially in the village shops! Please, you're laughing at it, in the village shops, in suburban neighborhoods where you shop at your dealer's place on the so-called. The line, in the jargon, and he's not stupid enough to give you a bill until you pay for that stuff. And because we have this kind of economic situation, many citizens are forced to just beg their trader to postpone their payment for certain basics such as bread, milk, some other food product that he has to bring to his child every morning for breakfast, and he doesn't have the money to pay. That's what this is about! Now you're the kind of man, who's otherwise weirded out by your economic situation, you want to punish with 1,000 dinars. Look at the wonders, please, 1,000 dinars because he doesn't have a bill, and he did regularly pay and he did sell the tax even paid to the state. What should we do with our faith? It's the stories of life that you won't hear or won't see, because you live in another world. You seem to live in Germany, you want to paint everything from Germany, from Western Europe here, on our terms, and that's just impossible. You can't get these things into this system between these people until we get to the point where we can live off our work in a way that provides dignity. (Milka Marinkovic, from the site: No religion. () It can't be Milka's version, but life says it can be! Mr Djelic can say a million times -- he can't -- there's gonna be a religion and it has to be because we're in such an economic and social state that we just have to get along in life.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24454	National MP Cedomir Jovanovic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24455	Because we have a lot of experts thinking about problems that can be practical, but they're incompatible with what's the subject of our debate. You have an option on a fiscal account category that's not paid, but it's listed as debt. That's very clear. Calling children is so incompatible with what's being done that it doesn't deserve a serious comment, except for serious criticism. We're supposed to raise kids! We should raise them. We were raised as a generation in another time. We were raised to get on the bus when someone older than us showed up, we were raised to show good day and goodbye, to respect the older one. I remind you that we will have until the end of this session and some other laws. It may occur that we are discussing a law to control the sale of tobacco and alcoholic products to children. Then how do we know if a child buys alcohol for his parents or for himself? It's a mockery of meaning that must exist in all things. Everything can be made up, but bringing meaning back to a unthinking country is one hard job and that's what we do.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24456	The word is made by MP Dragan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24457	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I can understand the minister that he has never done anything in his life and that he can't justify his name -- they tell us that Minister Djelic is an expert, you didn't bring your biography to Serbia, but I can tell you that you were a buyer! Someone mentioned the word a little bit. I was going to say that 90% of the citizens buy on the line! Just laugh. Mrs. Milka, just laugh, and the villagers are waiting for you again to strike tractors out there on the street! Furthermore, children under the age of 14 cannot be punished. Mr. Jovanovic said that if anyone happens to buy on the line... Never mind, we Seamen talk like this, it's important that the people understand what we're saying! Do you understand? And you're speaking a little Belgrade, so 90% of the citizens don't know what you said, so when they meet me on the street, they say, " Palma," what that Bogdanovic said, there when he spoke, at the assembly pay phone. And, now, watch out, the buyer comes back, he has to go into the store, the store closes, the inspection comes in to see, to agree on the fiscal register and on the buyer, when he sees the bill, whether it's bought on religion or for granted. Now, that's where Serbian citizens can't understand -- how is that going to happen?- I'm sorry. Furthermore, what is called a religion - if a farmer buys on the veracity and is also a farmer, the pension should be accepted from 1 to 15, and does not receive a pension, from where will he pay, Mr. Minister - be asked the question?- I'm sorry. Or the ones that are out of a job?- I'm sorry. We suggest you respect the amendment proposed by the Serbian Unity Party to delete this point, as it will directly harm the citizens of Serbia. You've already imposed a fine for the owner of the store, trade or service shop, to pay the fine unless he's issued the bill. So, it can be one mandatory paper, if the control comes, gets the buyer back, see what's in the bag, see if the bill is typed, and if it's not with the items in the bag, it'll charge the fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24458	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Here you are, Minister of Finance Mr Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24459	Of course everything can be mocked, everything can be a subject of demagogy, in all possible ways it can be shown that we are a little different and that what already exists in somewhere can't be applied to us, but when someone says so, then I think that's the most insulting of the citizens of this country. This may be less harmless than it looks and less vulgar, these ground-floor examples, which have been applied here. Simply, if we take one Greece, from 10 to 15 years ago, which could have applied such measures to introduce order, so that it would have been known - if the trader wanted to sell without an account, that there was additional social pressure to issue this bill because the buyer knows that he doesn't care, because, in case he has any arguments - how much did he charge or didn't charge, when he gets the bill he sees how much it costs, he sees how much he's been charged, and there's a lot more than just fiscal and a fight against the gray economy, which one regularly paid the bill brings. I'm not talking about that, in case there's an account issue going on that it's possible to imagine some things that happen not so far from us -- when an account is issued -- someone can take the goods and try it, then return it, but then there's an account to prove when that goods are bought from, from whom and that it's regularly paid. There's a lot in the store. Of course, when we introduced this, we talked a lot to people who live and work at the store. They don't mind that extra social pressure, that what's branched out is enough and controlled. And they'd like a much more regular bill to be issued, because they'd like to know exactly how much traffic there is in their shops. Of course, as I've already said, everything can be mocked -- that there's a rumor here that someone is going to attack minors, that they're going to catch farmers who buy on religion, that people are going to get caught in a public toilet. Really... There were bright moments in the debate, but what's very important is that we understand, to make one parallel, which are conconsequences. It's possible to vote or not vote. It's your right. But it is indicative that when a more serious application finally took place, especially a criminal provision - that Serbs "binding" to take that belt and tie in the ride, then what happened? They're all tied up in the car and they're all tied up. Ten days of polemics-- yeah, what's that? Why are they making us? Where are the rights? We'll never accept that! And what do we have today, a few months later? We have 365 citizens who haven't died compared to what happened over the last few years; how many families are together today. I can only say that this, of course, can't be directly compared, because these are a little more tragic things, when we're talking about fastening a belt during the ride, or when it's driving. But here we leave the possibility, if we say so - well, Serbia will be dragging on like this for a few more years. That's not the problem. What's there to check out what people are doing, come on a little bit more like this, maybe somebody's gonna get mad at you. Who knows how that's gonna apply! Of course, there will be one rule, one reasonable application of this law, and that the most thought of those largest commercial objects, is what is most subject to cash, when going to a restaurant, but also in other ways. That's something we can decide today, let's say -- okay, Serbia wants and should not rediscover what countries like Greece are, and to God and Italy, where there are penalties for those who don't take an account, that's what they've introduced, and there's Montenegro who said the same thing and it had to apply the same things to break some things in one society, so to say -- so far it's like this, but now we're going to be a little different, because this is going to be one of the most effective ways to fight the gray economy, and those who are going to vote for this amendment are going to deprive this country. We won't have this way of curbing the gray economy. Those who vote for this amendment should choose to complain afterwards because the gray economy is booming, because people in their local self-government are complaining because they can't fight the fleas, and because they're close to them because they can't fight these pests and because their gray zone and their unfair competition are so lively, so don't complain. Ladies and gentlemen, if it's up to responsibility, don't vote for this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24460	No more logins for the word on this amendment. Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want to give the final statement? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. We will continue the search in detail on the 3rd item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Company Tax Act, a Business Break, at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24461	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work in the afternoon, the search in particular, after a joint search, we move on to the 3rd item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and DEFINITIONS OF THE INVESTIGATION OF THE INVESTIGATION To determine whether we have a basis for work, please establish a quorum. I find that we have a quorum and continue our work by considering the third item of the agenda. You have received the bill of law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Cedomir Jovanovic; Aleksandar Vukic; Tomislav Nikolic; Jovan Todorovic, Radojko Petrovic, Ljubomir Mucic, Rajko Baralić and Miomir Ilic, Natasa Jovanovic, Radoslav Vesenović and Marijan Risticevic. You have received the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the amendments submitted. You have received reports from the Finance Committee, as the committee responsible, and from the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has conducted a joint principle search, under which the draft law amending and supplementing the Company Tax Act has been discussed, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Radoslav Veselinovic submitted to the 1st amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Does any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Vukic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. ) The word has been issued by MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24462	It really doesn't make sense for us MPs to explain the amendments to each other and to talk about a bill the minister doesn't want to defend. I am really warning you, Mrs. Comic, that it is incomprehensible that according to the tax laws, the government is not interested in attending the National Assembly session and that it is a humiliation of the National Assembly and of all of us, who on today's "holy" day have decided to work. I do not believe that there are greater believers in the Serbian government than we who are here in the O.R., so when we can work today, the Government of the Republic of Serbia must also work. The government of the Republic of Serbia may have a formal session today, but the finance minister must be here and there is no excuse. He's been late for over an hour this morning, late for his session, the question is if he'll come at all. I don't know why we're continuing this session, why don't we wait for a representative of the government to come or make an appointment for tomorrow. But since I don't expect a rational answer from you, let's move on to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Company Tax Act. I now need to explain the amendment to Alexander Vukic and convince the government's representative to accept him. I do so as a representative of the SRS Parliamentary Group, so please inform the minister, approximately, that there was some amendment and that some MPs were coming out.... But I'd rather prove to him personally that he should have accepted this amendment than you would have given it to him. You won't want to pass it on to him. It's about the corporate tax law. Someone here told us that in 2000, no company paid a profit tax, and tell us if it paid in 2001 and will it pay in 2002? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, You can end this completely, not what we're looking for from 20 to 10, this is not the source of revenue in the Republic of Serbia's budget. God forbid it is, but in order for it to be, the rate has to be low, so raise the rate. And like this, corporate tax -- no company does business with profits! The question arises: are we preparing these laws for foreigners, who will in vain buy our property, and on our cheap workforce to make a profit? Yeah. If I were to see at least 50 of these foreigners, I would give each of them a gift from Serbia to remember Serbia and its economy, only if I could see 50 of them, and there is no such one. There are those who would invest in the company who want to buy and shut down companies, those who want to buy enterprises from which they can extract supplies and reserves, those who want to open only the market for their products, which they produce in other environments, they have. Therefore, it was pointless to put this law in context with other laws, which will apply. This law has not been applied for several years, and will not be applied even next year. That's why he needs it along with that law we discussed earlier, off the agenda, both of which are inapplicable in practice.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24463	Does the applicant of the amendment now want a word, as he is present in the O.R., MP Alexander Vukic? No, I don't. ( b) Does any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? (No) Members of the 5th Amendment were submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Does any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Todorovic, Radojko Petrovic, Ljubomir Mucic, Rajko Baralic and Miomir Ilic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? The People's Messenger Miomir Ilic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24464	Dear People's MPs, the proposal for a corporate tax law refers to companies. Given all these events, our economy and our situation, the question arises -- what companies are they? After all these changes, in these two years, there are few businesses left. Since I work in one of these companies, still social, I believe that what MP Tom Nikolic said, this law should be removed from the agenda, because indeed, profit has nothing, and from the perspective, it is said in the principle of discussion. As far as this member is concerned, we have suggested that in Article 5. The draft amending and supplementing the Law should be amended and complemented, so that those companies, which invest in the purchase of basic assets and equipment, from domestic producers, need this liberating rate from 10, according to the law, or the proposal, 20%, to raise to 50% by the domestic equipment manufacturer, and to 30% by importers of equipment and fixed assets from abroad. This is for the following reasons - to somehow strengthen companies. We know in what conditions we've done, under whose embargo we've done business, under whose aggression we've done business, and normally that companies in such conditions, and what they could do and how they stayed and survived, that they couldn't even get their equipment and property, but here now, with this new perspective, we're given the opportunity to see something and do something. For this reason, it's perfectly normal to buy something, say we buy one construction machine from our manufacturer called "14th October" from Kruševac, who was a very good, quality producer and remained, but after all these conditions, we should also give him a chance to buy one, not that loader that destroyed the Assembly, but a bulldozer, who has such capacities and qualities that he can compare with many other construction machines, which here have a perspective of entry. We believe that this is in place, that this amendment of ours is adopted, especially after yesterday's statement by Minister Djelic, who I don't know for what reasons he's not here for. If they warn and punish MPs, why can't they punish and warn that they also refer to the minister, because this is about the law that he has handed down, about the government that proposed this law. He said last night that at this point, the economy is lending to the state. I wanted to remind him of his saying and to return to this article's proposal to help this economy, the way it is, to buy some basic asset from domestic production. In this way, the cycle of work is expanded and makes it possible to produce and acquire more profits than many other companies that are related to the production of equipment and basic assets. For this reason, I believe that the government should accept this amendment and supplement proposal or remove this whole law from the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24465	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? The word is from MP Jovan Todorovic, the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24466	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the Government, we wanted to encourage more seriously this amendment to encourage profit-making companies to invest in the acquisition of new fixed assets and to expand the material base of work, as it is said, to employ a new workforce. The government has suggested that, instead of the 10% incentive so far, we have a 20% release. We went here to the solution to make it half of the profit achieved, to free the tax, provided that the basic assets are obtained on the domestic market, or from domestic producers, and if these basic assets or equipment are imported, that the relief based on the profit tax is 30%. The government rejected this amendment, with an explanation, that this does not fit the principles of the World Trade Organisation, or the GAT, and that it is not possible to destimulate imports by direct taxes. First of all, I have to say, it's not a request from the World Trade Oranization. Secondly, we are not a member of the GAT, or the World Trade Organisation. Third, it is not about direct taxation of imports, but about those who have earned profits, this gain is about over-use for the purchase of basic assets that will produce domestic companies and thus encourage general economic activity in our country's territory. If the point is to say that there are no domestic producers who would be able to produce these equipment or basics, then the question is quite serious whether it makes any sense to talk about taxing any company in this country's achievements. According to the balance sheet, we projected for 2002 a billion and 900 million taxpayers based on profits. The question is whether that amount will be achieved at all. That's why it's not surprising, in a way, the ease of a stingy minister to increase the tax relief from 10% to 20%. But our overall situation, when it comes to the country's foreign exchange balance, requires that we take this seriously, because our imports are covered by one-third of the exports. The question is how long can this situation last, because even the IMF has been concerned about the fact and is demanding that Yugoslavia and the Republic of the Republic of Slovenia balance the external trade balance.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24467	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Cedomir Jovanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 7th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The amendmentr wants a word. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24468	We've been talking to government representatives for three days and we've been with Minister Djelic this morning. However, there is now a gentleman, an unidentified person from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I assume it's you, with all due regard to the fact that you've been sitting next to the minister himself for three days, noding your head and approving everything he says. Since he's not here, he's probably tired of the Olympic discipline he demonstrated to us here this morning. I must tell you, if you are this representative of the Government and the Ministry of Finance, because it is illusory that we speak to MPs, as Mr Nikolic said, among yourselves, that it is very important to accept this amendment for the simple reason that many of you are from so-called. The rest of the DOS, but only girlaratingly, promoted the development of small and medium-sized enterprises in Serbia. The amendment to Article 7, which I have submitted, is related to the reliefs, i.e. to giving the possibility to tax credit by 50% higher for small and medium-sized enterprises. The amendment to Article 3, which Mr Nikolic had, referred to large enterprises. There is nothing from the restructuring of major industrial giants in Serbia, such as the flag Group, so others, metal and other complexes. It's all what you promised. On the contrary, we have the closure of the factory, the dismissal of workers and the inability to employ the trained staff. Only in Kragujevac, in the city where I live, in the last year, 15,000 people were fired from the Zastava Group's work. A month ago under bankruptcy went to the Red Star Meat Industry factory. The textile industry was completely ruined, which, after the evil NATO agaresia, lived, at the moment we were able to participate in the Government of National Unity, to act as if it were recovering. Today, there is nothing, but with your fiscal policy you want these small businesses, which should have some perspective in the entire economic space in Serbia, with their policy to close. Yesterday, the minister had no valid explanation for his moves, which are not acceptable, both for the physical and legal persons, but for the fact that the statistical apparatus in our country is "obsolete", that is, his words, which is different and through some false depictions are measured by the increase, i.e. the decline of industrial production. He's getting smaller and smaller from year to year. Practically, we don't have any exports. We have import lobbys from the Dosmanian ranks. On the other hand, we have an absurd situation, that even in Vojvodina, many private companies are being shut down, because no one can tolerate such high tax duties. Speaking of Vojvodina, I would like to invite all citizens, who live in Vojvodina and Novi Sad, to come tomorrow at 17.00 p.m. for a large national rally of the Serbian Radical Party, where they will be spoken by a candidate for the president of Serbia and, I believe, future president, Professor Dr. Vojislav Seselj, who is the candidate of the entire patriotic Serbia and the entire opposition in Serbia today, who soon has to drive you out of power.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24469	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Todorovic, Radojko Petrovic, Ljubomir Mucic, Rajko Baralic and Miomir Ilic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? The word has the People's MP Ljubomir Mucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24470	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Ambassadors, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, we have tabled an amendment to Article 7, i.e. an existing Article 50. Company profit tax law. I would suggest, if the minister, Mr Djelic, was injured, that you invite another representative of the government, since he was authorised to represent the government at this session and Mr Aleksandar Vlahovic, so that at least he attends and hears these amendments, as written in the government's report. Article 50, which is amended, reads: "The obligor which is governed by the law governing accounting is classified as a small enterprise (i.e. the incentive measures for small enterprises) is entitled to the tax credit referred to in Article 48." (and this is said in the interpretation of the amendments to Article 5 of this Act) a tax credit of 30% of the investment made is recognised." The SPS Group proposed, this red, this yellow is not, that in Article 50 per cent of the "30" is replaced by a percentage of "70", provided that if an investment was made on the domestic market, i.e. the provision of equipment and basic assets from the domestic market, i.e. a slightly smaller percentage of 50 if investments were made through imports and the text was deleted. A few reasons have defined us for this amendment. First, the total tax-based disbursement, based on corporate tax, seems to be around 285 million dinars foreseen in the budget. The second thing, since the largest number of companies did not show profits, nor did they, it seems to me that the total number of tax on company profits is about 2 billion, so we fully disbursed these companies, and there would be no damage to the republican budget. It's probably also your goal to get out of it, if someone makes it happen, take what's left. Also, the tax reduction of this rate from 20 to 14 is one incentive measure, but we think that this measure, first of all, is stimulating and for domestic businesses and that's a double benefit. Therefore, domestic companies will be employed, and this company, which is employed, will earn some profit based on which to pay the company's profit tax. While the company that made the investments will, and it is good that in the first year when the company executes the investment, the largest part of the company's profit tax will be released. Also, we don't think there's any reason why stimulating measures don't encourage entrepreneurship in this country. I think it's the biggest damage, and a few days ago I was in Osecina and I saw that in all of Podgorka, 500 workers burn only one light bulb at the gate. This company in the centre of the Podgorina raw material base, the fruit area is closed, and the same fate threatens some other agricultural organisations in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24471	Thank you. Does anyone else sign up for a word? Here's a word from MP Jovan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24472	Ladies and gentlemen, I just said, the government has given an explanation as to why the previous amendment refused. The same is the reason for this SPS amendment. I'd like to remind you of two facts that may not be familiar enough. First, it is interesting that the government is declaring the need to encourage the establishment and development of small businesses. When it is suggested that these companies are in a way more stimulated than all others, in terms of tax exemptions, then the Government has smoothly rejected it - it calls for a GAT, or a world trade organisation, and if there were a minister here, I would remind you, but nevertheless all of you, you certainly know about that category of protectionism in foreign trade. There is no country in the world that does not protect domestic production and domestic producers by its economic, tax, customs and other measures. As a result, there can be no reason to say that we single out those companies that are purchasing on the domestic market and those that supply equipment or fixed assets from imports, that this is negative discrimination and that it does not fit the GAT rules. Secondly, it is interesting that none of the parliamentary groups, nor ours, have proposed the release on the basis of the sales tax on services, the issue of business and other premises carried out by legal entities. We had here in the Bill of Law a proposal from the Government to free individuals from taxes on this basis and that's OK, but the legal persons are not released. It's all in this context, because there's a fact that you must all meet in your midst, which is that there are thousands, tens, hundreds, and even millions of square meters of business space, above all in untapped halls. Yeah, it's dark, it's dark. It would be interesting, therefore, that those who earn profits and intend to invest that profit in production halls, consider firstly whether there are empty production halls in the area of the municipality in which they want to invest. We have a rather absurd situation to invest again in building space and halls, and we have many halls that stand empty, especially after shutting down and liquidating many businesses in the last two years. Therefore, the tax relief proposed is in the function of faster development and above all incentives for the creation of small businesses. We propose to the Minister and the Government that this amendment be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24473	No more reported for the word on this amendment. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Cedomir Jovanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 8th Amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Jovan Todorovic, Radojko Petrovic, Ljubomir Mucic, Rajko Baralic and Miomir Ilic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Here's a word from MP Radojko Petric.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24474	Dear Presidency, honourable MPs, along with a group of SPS MPs, I have tabled an amendment to Article 8. A bill of this law. The amendment has three parts relating to the following: firstly, in the new Article 50b, the Government has proposed to exempt the payment of income tax for investments in areas of special interest for the Republic. The amendment requires tax exemptions to be applied to investments in underdeveloped areas. The current regulations do not specify which areas of particular interest to the Republic. The question arises whether the Government wants to take over that authority and to decide from case to case; whether this Government wants to put out of force in particular the applicable Law on underdeveloped areas from 1996 to 2005. A year?- I'm sorry. What remains of the constitutional obligation and the strategic objective of the Republic to take care of balanced regional development?- I'm sorry. We note that according to the criteria of the Law on Not Developed Areas in Serbia, there are 37 municipalities that are underdeveloped. The second part of the amendment concerns the proposal to establish the criteria for tax exemptions by its regulation and to publish it, not the Ministry, again from case to case. The third part of the amendment suggests the adoption of a new member who has made taxpayers who have been destroyed by NATO's alliances freed from paying taxes on profits. Liberation would take place as long as the process runs, until the total amount of war damage was covered as assessed by the state commission. In that part of the amendment, it is specified, in terms of specificity and correctness, that the amount of war damage, which is required for tax exemption, is reduced by the amount that this legal person has received as aid from the Republic. There is a full justification for accepting this proposal in both social and economic terms. The state should thus show its readiness to help all economic and other entities, who suffered damage during NATO aggression. I think the reasons are justified that the amendment is actually accepted in all three of its works.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24475	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Is anyone else applying for a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed a search of the bill in particular, does the proposing's representative want to give the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. We move to the fourth item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Taxes on Use, COUNTRY AND NOSE OF GOODS You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments, submitted together by MPs Radojko Petrovic, Slobodan Tomovic, Rajko Baralić and Joca Arsic and individual MPs Gordana Pop-Lazic, Anita Beretic and Dusan Ilic, on the draft of the law. You have received a report from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a joint principle search, under which the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Taxes on Use, Holding and Wearing goods has been discussed, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. On Article 2 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There's a word from the MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24476	Dear People's MPs, in April 2001, when you introduced such high taxes on everything and everything, to air in Serbia, among other things, to motorless boats, motorboats, holiday homes, rafts, weapons, I don't know what you're not, we warned you to exaggerate. You finally realized after a year that you can't take all the taxes, so you're going to charge us a tax or a tax on our old shoes. With my amendment, I'm asking here for a correction of Article 25. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Tax on Use, Holding and Wearing goods, by asking you to equalise all citizens in Serbia. Not only those who received weapons on some basis, whether from Serbia's MUP on their way to retirement or from the Yugoslav Army as a trophy weapon, but all citizens for one piece of weaponry. I think it's also in accordance with the Constitution of our country. The reason is that tax, when introduced to such goods, should represent in some way a manifestation of the taxpayer's economic power, and then the state wants to take something from such a richer citizen, to collect taxes on some luxury. This isn't about the manifestation of economic power. You all know this well, in Serbia today, that for traditional reasons, which out of the mere need, and apparently more out of necessity than in tradition, today each house has one piece of weaponry. It would be quite correct for the government to take the same stance towards all citizens and free them from paying taxes. That tax is paid on an annual basis, I don't know exactly how much it's worth. I know that for carrying a gun, 5,000, for having a weapon, that tax is somewhat smaller, but it would be okay to equalize all citizens. That's why I submitted the most of this amendment. So, one piece of weapon, which was issued with an armed gun-holding list for personal safety, one piece of weapon issued for carrying, whether it's just possession or carrying of weapons and weapons, used by authorized arms and ammunition manufacturers as a basic means, equipment in the process of production.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24477	Anybody else answer for a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24478	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't know what the Government of the Republic of Serbia has handled, when amendments and additions to the Law on Taxation on Use, Holding and Wearing of Good Discriminated Citizens based on their current or previous occupation, which does not allow the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia either. Namely, why separate citizens from where they spent their working hours? If the government found it pointless to tax on weapons, then it wasn't just for those who got the guns, so when they got it, they didn't pay a claim fee, they didn't pay a permit fee, they didn't buy it, they didn't buy it, they had to release everything. We suggest that every citizen has the right, if the government doesn't need that tax, and most weapons will now be tax-free and there is one smaller number of citizens left, who will be discriminated on that basis, that for one weapon with a license to carry or hold that weapon, he will be freed from paying taxes on those weapons, which you introduced a year ago. That's because Serbia needs weapons! Since DOS is in power, no one is safe anymore and you know it very well. We just heard from the finance minister that you've imposed fines because Serbs are not tied up, so you've imposed penalties for Serbs to bond. I warn the minister that only drivers and passengers are connected, Serbs do not bond. It would turn out that anyone who proves he's not a Serb can drive a car without being tied up at all. That means one piece of non-tax-free weapon, and who wants to actually build an arsenal of weapons and, if allowed by the Serbian MUP, pay the tax. It's not about whether there's somewhere to charge taxes. Who can read, then read the book of Vojislav Seselj "Stanko Subotić - CaneZabac, near the tobacco mafia" (shows the book) will find out where the tax is. They're gonna find out where the tax is, they're gonna find out why we pay our taxes on drinking water, not our tobacco taxes! They'll find out who's involved in this, who's organizing and encouraging it, they'll find out why millions of people suffer to make a fortune, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24479	No more logins for the word on this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Anita Beretic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. ) Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Radojko Petrovic, Slobodan Tomovic, Rajko Baralic and Joca Arsic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There is a word from MP Radojko Petric.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24480	Dear Presidency, honourable MPs along with SPS MPs, I have tabled an amendment with a proposal to amend them in Article 2 of this law. In this article, the government proposed that changes be made to the part that regulated the payment of taxes on registered weapons, so it says, among other things, that no taxes on weapons that the person received as a reward, or when he retired from the Army of Yugoslavia or the Ministry of Interior, were paid, but there is one - but - a restriction, but at most one of the registered weapons for which the lowest level of tax was prescribed. The amendment proposes to amend the government's proposal in this sense that the tax is paid by holders of all the weapons they received from the Yugoslavia and the MUP military, as a reward for success in schooling, for the successes achieved in the work and when they retire. As an argument for accepting this amendment, have a hypothetical example of two Yugoslav Army officers: one was the best student in the class and received a gun as a reward on a gift; the best was also at war school and also won such a prize; for the successes achieved in training and command received a gun as a reward for the results achieved. It is understood that both the military and the MUP when they retire to receive such rewards. On the other hand, we have an officer who only got such a reward when he retired. Could it be allowed to neglect the distinct advantage of a more intelligent, more working, more ambitious, more capable officer? If the government's proposal was not amended, the institution itself would be devalued. Why would someone try to win a prize if they had to pay taxes for life on it? It would be a punishment, and it wouldn't be a reward. Let us bear in mind that the winners of these awards are such awards, dear memories as in other areas, every citizen who receives the prize knows how to appreciate, that this is a memory he enjoys and who he gladly wants to keep in the family. Let's not make taxes alienate those memories, those gifts, or whatever an officer says, if I'm going to pay my taxes, I'd rather have a bra cut and throw it away. It is not about any property that is taxed against the taxpayer's economic strength that, unfortunately, the government said in an explanation of the amendment's rejection. Do you tax someone who got a gift for his work, say, an art painting that's far more valuable than that weapon sample, whether it's a gun or a carabin, a far more expensive gift, but doesn't pay any taxes and there's no problem. It is not about the economic strength that the government explains, so it is not necessary to accept the proposal. The pale explanation of the government that rejects the amendment to the part where it states that it is the measure of destimulating the possession of weapons due to the expressed social danger. It's about people who are mostly professionally addressed to this problem and there's no abuse on that side either.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24481	I'm warning you, time's over.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24482	Thank you, I'm done. I think those are the reasons why the amendment should have been accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24483	Is there an application for a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Ilic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Is anyone else applying for a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the draft law in particular, do we ask if the proposing's representative wants the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. We move to item 5 of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of Taxes on Property You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Gordana Pop-Lazic, Natasa Jovanovic and together Jovan Todorovic, Radojko Petrovic, Joca Arsic and Ljubomir Mucic. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a joint principled search under which the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on property taxes has been discussed, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. The People's MP Gordana Pop-Lazic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Do you want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24484	Ladies and gentlemen, by preparing the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Property Tax Act, the Proposer proposed not to pay property tax, certain immovableities, calling for a law on assets in the possession of the Republic of Serbia. These are, above all, those immovableities used by units of territorial autonomy and local self-government that have been declared cultural and historical monuments, diplomatic and consular representations, shelters, etc. With my amendment, I only wanted to respect in points 1, 4, 9 and 11, the one principle that you have here at point 9 by asking shelters to be exempt from the property tax unless, you say, they are used for the purposes of which income is made. I think that this is right and that this principle should also be maintained at point 11. where we release property tax facilities, or parts of objects which, in accordance with the law, serve to carry out municipal activities, and then those immovableities which have been declared by the competent authority as cultural or historical monuments and those which, bodies and bodies and services of territorial autonomy units and local self-government, are used. If, then, they use them to make income, then it's okay for them to pay property taxes. If they are used only for this basic activity they are carrying out, then they should be exempt from the property tax, but to respect this principle that you have stated at point 9 - unless they are used for the purposes by which income is realised. I also wanted to intervene with the amendment at point 8. where the tax on property is released city building land when the total area of the building plot, i.e. building plots, does not count the land under the property of one rightholder exceeds 10 acres. I believe that it is too small and that this point 8 should read so that it remains 10 acres in the first building zone; in the second building zone to be 20 acres; in the third 30 acres; and in the fourth and fifth building zone 50 acres with an explanation that land in the fourth and fifth zone is considered a garden and that it should then be possible for citizens living outside the central city building zone, to free themselves of property taxes, to a larger area of land, because otherwise the practice in Serbia is such that in our 40 other houses citizens have at least 50 acres and we consider it a garden, a building plot, and we should not restrict and divide that parcel into 10 acres, so that we should free taxes, on the other 40, should pay. I think this would be a fairer solution and in line with the value of the land on which the property tax is paid.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24485	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate applying for a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Jovan Todorovic, Radojko Petric, Joca Arsic and Ljubomir Mucic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Is there an application for a word? No, I don't. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24486	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, in April, when Djelic's tax code package was passed and when the unique DOS parliamentary group was then and now it will be, along with Kostunica's Democratic Party of Serbia, voted for the tax package, the SRS had the biggest objections and, among other things, on the proposed property tax bill at the time. The law has come into force and has caused many trouble for the citizens of Serbia, especially because of the fact that it has been adopted so, which we have had huge objections because it is a Harraq law, is not strictly applied today as you have adopted it. We were then able to act as an amendment to free one part of the tax on the property of a person over 65 years old and - in Kragujevac, such persons, our elderly population, and in other towns of Serbia, when they came to the counter in RUJP not only did they not get any tax exemption, which is in force in that law, whose amendments and additions are now proposed, but again against them (and I was talking yesterday) is charging a tight interest of 0.2% a day, which you know has been deleted by the 2002 law. It was again our amendment, and it was imposed on the government of the Republic of Serbia to tighten the interest against the economic rate of the National Bank or on the cost of growth of prices for little. An amendment that I have submitted to article 4. Article 31 of the current law refers to something that is very dangerous and again points to the fact that one part of this society, which you are now managing, will be this financial oligarchy that is under your patronage, enormously rich to the harm of citizens, and this is how it can happen: 1. If you leave such a member of the law, in which in the case of a transfer tax, you gave the tax exemption of an absolute rightholder to transfer bonds that the citizens received from the Republic of Serbia on the basis of foreign exchange savings, you will create an opportunity for a group of people to become enormously rich. We would understand, I demand this amendment, that this release be only during the first transfer, which is normal, because all other transfers would absolutely represent a financial transaction of the release of bonds further into circulation and enormous profits for the user, i.e. the future bond holder. 2. If the company "Lutra" from agricultural producers or from workers at low prices... (The President: I warn you of overrunning the time allowed and on the subject. )......................................................................................................... Here, I'm done. The theme is the topic and you focus a little on what's the topic. So, if at low prices we buy the stock and if they were to move on, we'd earn maybe 70 or 80% of what we can't afford, that people like that don't pay taxes.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24487	Anybody else answer for a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24488	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are convinced that this amendment should be accepted because the bonds become goods, because it does not correspond to the true reasoning of the Government stated in the rejection of the amendments - that there would be no motivation for the owners to accept the bonds, to obtain bonds instead of waiting for the payment of the money. When transferring rights from the first owner to the next owner, tax is not paid, but for each further transfer, and I remind you that many people in Serbia have made a fortune by buying 30% or 40% of the value of the bonds, and must pay taxes. That's basic. I guess you've been pushing for every traffic in Serbia's territory to pay taxes all day! If MK Komertz is building buildings for you now, buying goods, buying buildings with bonds he bought and for the first time not paying taxes, he now has to pay taxes and do so in the next transfer of rights. What does Serbia give up on a huge tax, and here you warn us that we should also have children controlling whether they bought a drink for their father, mother or for themselves in the store?- I'm sorry. How's that? Where did that come from? This is huge money! What is the obligation of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of the Serbian Rebirth Loan, based on various foreign savings, old, private or state-owned banks? Those bonds are in play now! Well, the brokers only deal with them. What do you do for stockbrokers? What kind of goods are you still buying and selling besides those bonds?- I'm sorry. This is now gold, for the individuals of gold, and you consciously let these men trade in it, for they are men of your ranks without taxes.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24489	No more logins for the word on this amendment. Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. We move to the 6th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Taxes on the Income of Citizens You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted on the bill by the MPs: Marko Djurisic; together Radojko Petrovic, Ljubomir Mucic, Rajko Baralić, Jovan Todorovic, Dusan Cvetković, Nebojsa Jović, Dragan Jovanovic, Joca Arsic and Rade Bajic; Živko Selaković; Aleksandar Vukić, Natasa Jovanovic, Gordana Pop-Lazić, Miroslav Veljković, Tomislav Nikolic; together Bratoljub Janacković, Milorad Stanulov, Ljubodrag Grbić; together Olgica Kircanski, Slavica Tatomir and Miroslav Krisodulo; Marko Petrović; together Zlata Đerić and Milorad Stanulov. You have received the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the subject amendments. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has carried out a joint principled search under which the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income Tax has been discussed, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Since this amendment was adopted by the Government and the Finance Committee, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible, this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The People's MP Alexander Vukic submitted to the 1st Amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24490	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, I have proposed that Article 9 paragraph 12 is changed, and this is about a member who speaks of non-payment of income tax, which I have signed, says "studies and loans from students in the monthly amount of up to 3,000 dinars", and a proposal from the SRS parliamentary group, which I signed, reads: "studies and loans from students and students in the monthly amount of one average earnings achieved in the territory of the Republic according to a report by the Republic's Office of Statistics Office for the preceding month". So, we think that the category of students and students should be free of tax. We think that it was also pre-election promises from the ruling coalition and all those who offered it to the youngest working-age population, or promised towers and cities and said that they would live much better, scholarships would never pay and the scholarship would be in progress, and we believe that no damage to our budget would be done without paying something like this. At the end of the line, I have to point to far more important sources of income from the state. These public revenues should be made on the basis of tax payments, but some other taxpayers who have far more financial resources than students and high school students who receive a scholarship to develop scientific underage or others. Enough for those who haven't seen or listened to Tomislav Nikolic before, I brought a book called "The King of the Duvan Mafia". So, if you were to tax him as necessary, as much as necessary, if Stanko Subotić - Cane paid one change of what he gained through the mafia business and the operation of Republika Srpska and SRJ territory, I am sure that all of our citizens would be incomparably better, and in any case, we could guarantee that in the next 100 years this member, or this position of the 9th member, would not have to change, any obligations for students and high school students would not have to exist in any way. So it's enough to do this, the state would have to work here first, the state would have to do it first, and then, I'm sure, it would have recorded an incomparably better result and had higher revenues in the budget headings. In any case, I urge you to accept this amendment to the SRS Parliamentary Group. This will also bring about a number of promises, made to students and students, finally, at least one, to come true. So we're going to show that we want to worry about the younger generation, that we don't just want to use them for elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24491	I'm warning you of an overrun of the time allowed.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24492	If they came out to vote, but as they warn me of time overrun, I would only take the opportunity, because tomorrow they will not limit our time in the central city square in Novi Sad, Freedom Square, at 17 hours; the president's candidate for the single Serbian opposition, Dr Vojislav Seselj, will speak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24493	Mr. Vukiæu, please and I would like to warn you that in the future, you are not propaganda from the pay phone, but there is a possibility, according to the Rules of Procedure, that you hold a press conference in the Assembly. This was the last warning. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? There is a word from MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24494	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the rally is tomorrow at 5:00, in the square in Novi Sad, and don't ask me, I'll be warned here for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24495	Mr. Nikolic, on the basis of Articles 101 and 102, I give you my first warning for violating the Rules of Procedure and despite my warning to your colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24496	Just so you know one thing, you put your hand in my pocket.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24497	Mr. Nikolic, second warning, I give you a second warning, based on Articles 101 and 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24498	You put your hand in my pocket and you took 8,000 dinars just because you're ossions and rude, just because you don't know what democracy is, just because you can't do a little tact to run a session of the National Assembly, just because you've been away for three hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24499	Mr. Nikolic, I warn you that you have two warnings and that you stick to the subject of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24500	No matter what you warn me, if I were to pay attention to anyone's warning... You are now creating an incident situation. Well, of course, we both have to be well-trained. Can't the one who's been well-mannered most of the time get a head, he's got to answer eventually. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, I, whose salary is reduced by 8,000 dinars, by the will of the President of the National Assembly, explain this amendment and remind you that the amount of scholarship up to 3,000 dinars for a year and a half, our amendment proposes that this base be increased to the average of net earnings paid in the month preceding the payment, based on relevant data, that I do not repeat the entire amendment, the Prime Minister replied that the amendment does not accept, because it does not fit in with the general tax policy, in the concept; he thinks that this is too high, that we have many children in education who receive scholarships, so it would settle the revenues from the budget. And I am now probably understanding people (would not keep the company of the minister during the session), I am referring to a simple question, which could solve the issue of all budget deficits in the next 10 years -- how many taxes has Milan Jankovic, Alias Filip Cepter, paid the Republic of Serbia to sell goods worth tens of millions of euros, a door-to-door system, a family-to-door sale, a neighbourly relationship, to call it a pyramidal sale, not exactly true?- I'm sorry. Did you hear that this Philip Ceptter guy, he's running the country with Serbia and he's selling all his goods without taxes, and he's not waiting anywhere for a tax controller, not in front of a toilet, not in front of a store, not in front of a trade, to ask for a bill and ask how many goods were sold! Do you have a list of the Delta Bank taxpayers?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24501	I'm warning you of an overrun of the time allowed.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24502	And now why are you trading for Delta Bank, and you're not for Cepter?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24503	I'm warning you in time.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24504	And I said you're defending the Delta Bank.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24505	You're out of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24506	Slowly, my time will come.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24507	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Rajko Petrovic, Ljubomir Mucic, Rajko Baralić, Jovan Todorovic, Dusan Cvetkovic, Nebojsa Jović, Dragan Jovanovic, Joca Arsic and Rade Bajic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want to talk about this amendment? There is a word from MP Radojko Petric.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24508	The Honored Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SPS, with a group of MPs, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1, and here the Government has proposed, among other things, to limit the amount that can be paid without paying the income tax achieved on the basis of the severance allowance of the retired employee. In fact, the government proposed that the untaxed amount could be the highest of the average average monthly earnings per employee paid in the Republic. The amendment proposes that this restriction be deleted and that the payment of pension allowances, without paying taxes, can be carried out in accordance with the law governing working relations. According to the law, which is the Labour Act, Article 90 has been regulated that the amount of severance on retirement is determined by a general act, by a contract of employment, and by a general collective contract, by those employers who signed the contract. It is irrelevant now in connection with this amendment to start from a general collective agreement that provides for the untaxed amount of severance to be 1.5 personal income of an employee, an average in the economy of Serbia or an average in the employer. This provision is not binding and it applies only to those who have signed the collective agreement. For those who didn't sign, it means they can pay more monthly earnings without taxes! In practice, this has been the most common three months of earnings. Why limit it now? In addition, the worker could choose what was more favourable for him: if he had a better average of earnings than in the entire collective, he could choose that average, and if he had below the employee average, he could choose the average of the republican. In fact, there was one advantage. The government's proposal now represents an increased arrest and a new burden for the payer. If the government's proposal is not amended, it will reflect on retired employees, and it really doesn't make sense, and for practical reasons, the employer will look to reduce the payout to avoid paying a bigger tax. Is that right, to do injustice to an employee, when at the end of the working century he retires, and now he needs someone to deprive him of that right, to reduce the amount of severance he's about to receive. I really don't think it's some big amount, which the state will provide, to increase revenue in the budget, and much more would be done for the overall relationship in both the collectives and the employees who are going to retire, not to change that and to keep that amount and rights, which they have so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24509	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Olga Kircanski, Slavica Tatomir and Miroslav Christodulo submitted to the 1st Amendment together. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The People's Messenger, Miroslav Christodulo, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24510	This amendment proposed that the severances, i.e. the fees paid by the employer to an employee whose work had ceased the need under the law governing working relations, we propose that no tax be paid on that severance fee that the income of citizens on application is achieved on that basis without limitation of the amount. So, the change from the government's proposal, which we commend and welcome, is that we want to free this severance from taxation without restrictions, not to the amount established under the Labour Law. The reason is that if the proposed amendment were accepted, it would avoid putting into a privileged position of workers who remain jobless in enterprises for which the Serbian government has taken over the obligation of the social programme -- "in the process of restructuring businesses and preparing for privatisation, bankruptcy and liquidation", as the Serbian government's decision is called. So, they would be in an unequal position to work in other companies that are also being prepared for privatisation, bankruptcy and liquidation, in which the government has not taken over the obligation of the social programme, but the programme should be implemented by the companies themselves. Of course, this refers to the point of Article 20 of the original Law on Income Taxation of Citizens, where it is said that one-off cash compensation, in accordance with the Decision on the establishment of a social programme, will be released from the tax, to the amount established by that programme, and to persons over 50 years of life, without limitation of the amount. When we have one situation that we want to encourage a small economy, free a little profit from the company, free the taxation of athletes, admit 50% of the release, not tax dividends, earn more than 600,000 dinars, release that progressive taxation, and on the other hand we don't want to reduce the tax rate on sales, continue to impose additional taxes on cooperatives, and now we want to tax severance fees. It's kind of like kidnapping the poor and giving the rich.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24511	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate applying for a word? No, I don't. ) On the 4th amendment, in essence in the same text, together were the people's emissaries Radojko Petrovic, Ljubomir Mucic, Rajko Baralić, Jovan Todorovic, Dusan Cvetković, Nebojsa Jović, Dragan Jovanovic, Joca Arsic and Rade Bajic; MP Zivko Selaković and National MP Natasa Jovanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Are any of the applicants applying for a word? The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24512	We will continue to endure, I mean the SRS parliamentary group, which has done so from the very beginning, that in the protection of all the poored layers of the population since the DOS has been in power, we have influenced amendments to improve the state of agriculture, especially because we have a very large increase in the budget this year, although Minister Djelic does not think so, but 260 billion on last year's 234, with a huge budget deficit which is only taxed that he will be filled and without being able to see clearly what the situation in agriculture will be and how much budget funds for agricultural subsidies will be allocated to, they make us, of course, care for farmers, for farmers, to point out to you the necessity to adopt this amendment, which we ask that agricultural producers to exempt the agricultural tax on agriculture and not to reduce to 14%, but to 14%, to the 10%. This, first of all, is because at least one quarter of the population is actively engaged in agriculture and especially because it is not only this tax that farmers pay, but they have to pay all of these previous taxes that were on the agenda; first of all, property tax, especially because it is strategically important that we do everything in Serbia to make the situation much better than it is today, especially because technical and technological developments, in which you have not invested anything in the past two years, stimulating agricultural producers, something that is our perspective, despite the fact that the evil NATO Pact has bombed our country for 78 days. We today, by the estimates of all the competent experts, have in the environment the healthiest water, air and land, we have all the preconditions and, above all, the hardworking and hardworking peasants to develop this strategic economic branch. As a reduction in taxes, as a very important relief, should affect the incentive of pojoriable producers, and everything else that the state obviously has no hearing about, because the Minister of Agriculture (who knows whether he is alive, we have not seen him or not on the screens of your televisions at all, and in the Assembly has not shown up for a year) has done nothing to improve the situation in this economic area, and, as I said, more than one quarter of the population is engaged in agriculture.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24513	The People's MP Rada Bajic called for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24514	Dear Presidency, with a group of SPS MPs, I have submitted an amendment to Article 4, which we ask the government and the minister to make a rate of income from economy and forestry, with 20% that was previously downloaded to 10%, not 14%, as the bill provides. For several reasons, it has affected us to endure such an amendment, first of all, that agriculture always, when the hardest moments are on the ground, accepts this burden of difficulty on its shoulders and, practically, carries them and thus helps the rest of the population to survive. The situation is no better, farmers are constantly exposed to various difficulties, particularly in terms of sowing, harvesting and payment and taxes. Just because the base that determines the income on which the tax is paid is not high and these four percentages we are looking for to cut would not significantly affect the revenue side of the budget. Therefore, if we really want to carry out an incentive in agriculture, especially when we require that young people stay in the country and deal with agriculture, then this is really a small step that we would take to improve the situation in agriculture and the situation in the country. For this reason, I assume you will remember this amendment and when it comes to voting for this, because if you did, if you had treated the amendments we submitted in April last year, probably most of these laws would not be on the agenda at all today. But just because they were filed by SPS MPs and, I must say, the other MPs of the opposition parties, you considered them irrelevant, you rejected them, in order to realize only a year later that we had suggested the right thing, which you finally finally accepted, because it made you live and daily.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24515	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate applying for a word? The word is from MP Zivko Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24516	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment of the Assembly Group of the Soviets, which I have submitted to Article 4 of the Law, is amended and reads as follows: "In Article 28%, "of 20%" is replaced by a percentage of 10%". Here's why I suggested it. The reduction of the tax rate on agricultural and forestry income as a percentage of the proposed amendment is considered an adequate solution to encourage the development of agriculture, and given above all the impact of the risk factors on agricultural income, as well as the material situation of agriculture. The legislator here predicted a reduction from 20% to 14%, given that the member himself had a proposal from almost all parliamentary groups, both opposition and positions, we probably realized that agriculture should still be given priority together. And so the reason is that we have more than 14% to accept the 10% rate proposed. In particular, I want to underline the high rate of contribution in agriculture, that some of the rates of contribution are better, cheaper, then I might as well stay this percentage of 14%. I don't think there's any reason for this amendment not to be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24517	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment, in essence in the same text, the MPs Radojko Petrovic, Ljubomir Mucic, Rajko Baralić, Jovan Todorovic, Dusan Cvetković, Nebojsa Jović, Dragan Jovanovic, Joca Arsic and Rade Bajic were submitted together; MP Gordana Pop-Lazic and MP Zlata Djeric. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here's a word for the MP Zlata Đeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24518	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the New Serbia parliamentary group has tabled an amendment to Article 5, prompted primarily by the demands of Serbian citizens. This amendment accepts the possibility that the tax rate for self-employed workers should be reduced from 20%, and the government predicted a 14% reduction. Employees of self-operation believe it would be justified to make it 10%. First of all, employees of this business branch have a small net income and a small net income charged with earlier tax duties and large overhead costs. What would be very stimulating to develop independent actions that are a significant economic branch in Serbia is a tax rate of 10%. This would enable them, if not to reduce the price of their services and the price of their goods, and at least not to increase them during some period and make them competitive on the market. Thus, citizens would also use more of those services that would be legally taxed. We need to know that we also have in our own performance, the phenomenon of working on black, and if that stimulating tax rate were to live up to 10%, then this problem would be largely resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24519	Does anyone else sign up for a word? Yeah. ) Here you are, MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24520	Ladies and gentlemen, the Government of Article 5. The proposal for this law proposes to reduce the rate of income tax from an independent activity that is now 20%, which was too much, to 14%, which we believe is insufficient and by amendment we are asking for 10%. In its explanation, the government says that this proposal is in the role of encouraging the development of entrepreneurship, it should be and if we really want to give some incentive to private entrepreneurship, then we need to look at it in the right light and further down that tax as we asked for the amendment. Of course, the Pandan of this is the government's goal of equating companies and private entrepreneurs, although we are in favour of reducing the company's profit tax from 20 to 14%, perhaps even more, here's the business branch in entrepreneurship that we need to further stimulate, because there are a huge number of people out of work right now. For the last two years, hundreds of thousands of people have lost their jobs. We remember Minister Vlahovic, who said the severances would be enough for these newly unemployed to start some new business. There's not a word about business. There is talk about the mere survival of families; in order to ensure their existence, enter into the establishment of an independent trade store, or if they are always a craftsman, craftsmen, catering shops, they are most often employed by members of the entire family. Because of this, this law and the income tax itself in its own right does not only have that economic function, but it also has a social function. If we agree that it has a social function, then we have to look at how things are in self-operation at the moment, not that we're dealing with the theory of whether it should be the same as corporate tax. Perhaps in 10-15 years, and I think already after 8 December, when and how you will come to know, when citizens say theirs in Serbia's presidential elections and start all new, better flows.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24521	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miroljub Veljkovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24522	Dear People's MPs, the difference between Article 39 of this law, the government's proposal and my proposal, is that the government's proposal says tax incentives can be regulated in accordance with the regulations, and I suggest that the text stands that tax incentives can be regulated in accordance with the law. So the essence of my amendment is that such an important area, such as tax incentives, must be regulated in accordance with the law, not in accordance with the regulations, as proposed by the Government. What's the difference? The laws, unlike the regulations, are passed by this congregation, and the laws must go through the entire congregation procedure. The regulations, as you know, make government its own regulations. The time behind us gives me the right, as we know, to this government for two years has brought more than 120 regulations and such important areas, such as tax incentives, must certainly pass the congregation procedure. For these reasons, I call upon you to accept this amendment. We'll tell you more about this amendment and in general about the set of tax laws tomorrow at a big SRS rally in Novi Sad at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24523	Does anyone else sign up for a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24524	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's obvious the government wasn't prepared for this bill. It's about non-transparentity, it's about the government itself admitting that there is no law to be seen when it solves incentives for accelerated depreciation. That's why the government tried to get us on thin ice, to accept that tax incentives are regulated by regulations. So, by solving the minister, by interpreting the minister, by acts of the government. It can't, it has to be done by law! The government itself admits that the law still does not exist. Well, when he's gone, there's no member of this law. If there is no law, which regulates the promotion of investment in the economy based on employment or higher in some other way, then it is not worth the government's explanation and explanation that the law will be passed very quickly. No law will be passed in this congregation very quickly, for this congregation does not work for four or five months a year, and even when a regular session begins for it, the first session will be scheduled a month after the start of the regular session. As we carefully read the bill, we tried to avoid government disabling the National Assembly and saying that such an important matter would be regulated by its regulations. It is up to you to decide whether we are right, the MPs who ask that legal matter be governed by law or is right by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, who would avoid the law to the fullest extent possible, and to regulate matter, which is very important for the economy of Serbia and for incentives for the development of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24525	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24526	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with this amendment, I'm just trying to determine the exact period that will be the basis for determining the flat-rate income. The government of the Republic of Serbia has given us a very vague article 7. The bill, in which he says he'll say, "in the month of December of the year preceding... "replace the words "realized in the year or in a certain period of the year". It can't do that! Now, for each individual to determine what period of the year his income is being made, someone will be making a January - March, January - February or January - October. It can't be like that. It will either be in the year or in December of the previous year, as it was. It's either a midterm or a quarter. But let the government judge on its own that which debtor will be treated and remain untransparent, but for an agreement, for an assessment, for political belonging, for funding, that cannot be allowed! It's got to be settled by law, and you know when what activity is making its revenues come true, so regulate it with the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24527	Does anyone else sign up for a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Radojko Petrovic, Ljubomir Mucic, Rajko Baralić, Jovan Todorovic, Dusan Cvetkovic, Nebojsa Jović, Dragan Jovanovic, Joca Arsic and Rade Bajic. Since this amendment has been adopted by the Government and the Finance Committee, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The People's MPs Olga Kircanski, Slavica Tatomir and Miroslav Christodulo submitted the 8th Amendment together. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. There's a word from the People's MP, Olga Kircanski.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24528	The idea of this amendment was to delete this article, which stipulates that for the amount of dividend, it is to be paid to buy social and state capital up to the amount of dividend paid down the base for income tax over the year. In the government's explanation, we heard that this highlighted the desire to stimulate the privatisation process, to increase the number of natural persons, who will take part in auction privatisation and thus achieve a better price at a public auction, because it is unburdened by tax duties on that amount. We don't think that's the way it is. To come only from the fact that auctions are won by someone who offers a higher price, and in this way those who already have dividend incomes to be included in auction privatisation, so we are not sure that this is not how discrimination is done, that is, the layer that is quite advantageous and has high incomes and is economically capable of being released for the entire amount of dividend income invested in auction privatisation.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24529	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Radojko Petrovic, Ljubomir Mucic, Rajko Baralić, Jovan Todorovic, Dusan Cvetkovic, Nebojsa Jović, Dragan Jovanovic, Joca Arsic and Rade Bajic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. There's a word from MP Rada Bajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24530	Dear People's MPs, Mr. Minister, we have submitted an amendment to this member that the normised costs that are being denied the gross profits of athletes and sports workers from 50 percent increase to 70%. Here's why: here first you need to separate top-notch sports, or professional from amateur sports. Amateur sport is indeed in major financial difficulties, depending on a few people and enthusiasts who run these clubs and on a few people who want to invest in this sport. Here, it was meant to free those organizations and donors who invested 100 or 200 thousand dinars, so to cut their taxes, not bring amateur sports into a situation to just choke. If Mr. Minister didn't have to or didn't want to bite when it came to taking down gas taxes, because it's a really big item in the income item of the budget, and he's going to have to put pressure on about a million consumers who are heating up on gas outside the remote heating system, I think he should have understanding here and help out with amateur sports by accepting this percentage we suggested. Otherwise, we are in favour of taxing what is obtained as a "narukavica", it is hundreds and hundreds of thousands of marks in professional athletes, but in an amateur sport where thousands of dinars spin, there really is no point in taxing it. That way, we'll get the young man into a situation where he'll have nowhere to rest and go on the road that no one in this room wants.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24531	Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Milorad Stanulov. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. There's a word from the People's Messenger Milorad Stanulov.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24532	Dear Presidency, colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr. Minister, I have submitted the amendment as a former top athlete and I think I have the moral right and obligation, given that for 11 years I have been a representative of Yugoslavia in rowing, that 12 times I was the champion of Yugoslavia, five times the champion of the Balkans, one Mediterranean, that I won the bronze medal at the World Cup and that I have two medals from the Olympic Games. For all these results, I can say that in 1990, I was named the rower of the J.J. century of our country. So, I believe that I have a moral right and a duty to report to this member of the law, which includes taxation of sportsmen's and sports experts' incomes. I can say that I agree with the proposed solutions, except for the introduction of taxation of national recognitions and awards, which is why I submitted the amadane which reads: "In Article 11, new Article 84a, point 2. 7) is deleted." Namely, in Article 69. The Law on Sports defines the general interest in sports in the Republic, which is financed from the Republic's budget, and in the position of point (10) of this article, it is said that national recognitions and awards for a special contribution to the development and affirmation of sports. National recognitions and awards for a special contribution to the development and affirmation of sports and criteria for their assignment are determined by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. This is regulated by Article 71. Sports law. This definition of recognitions and awards must also represent the gratitude of the state to athletes who affirmed its name worldwide. I believe that the highest recognitions and awards a athlete can get from his country, for all the results he has achieved for the greatest achievement, must be freed from tax payments. Mr. Minister, you should bear in mind that most top athletes have amateur athletes' status, that they are rowers, kayakers, wrestlers, bowling players, caratists, that they usually have problems through their sports careers due to lack of financial resources. So, they don't have adequate equipment, they don't have props, they don't have a chance to go to the competition. Secondly, I believe that the national recognitions and awards provided for in Article 71. The law on sports, since it hasn't been introduced yet, is hereby proposed to tax them, which I think is absurd. Also, these awards are scheduled to be paid out of the budget. We know the tax is paid in the budget. I think it can be avoided that the rewards must be taxed. Also, as the highest recognition, national recognition is obtained only once in a career and is likely to be the highlight, the crown of a sportsman's career. I believe that the prize itself would not be devalued by the large number of prizes itself, that only the best athletes would receive the prize, and that would probably be a small number of athletes, as well as an automatic and small number of taxpayers. So the income that would be provided by the budget of that tax would be low. So, a small budget revenue, but a big gesture towards athletes. I therefore propose that the Minister accept this amendment and carry out, accordingly, the corrections - the technical correction of Article 9. Law on income tax on citizens. If the minister does not do so, I ask my colleagues and colleagues to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24533	Finance and Economy Minister Bozidar Djelic reportedly.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24534	By what I'd like to say, and that is, that this is, in itself, the most favourable tax treatment of athletes, in Europe for sure, we haven't been able to verify whether it's in the world, with the exception of maybe Monaco or as they say to us that they're citizens of some tax haven. This is the best thing there is. There have already been stories, that when it's already gone so far, why not go to the fact that these awards are untaxed; you saw that our runner Jevtic, when she won, won a very significant cash prize. It's not the same thing, it's not a national confession. On the other hand, I just want to say, regardless of what you want to do, be careful, because if this amendment is accepted, that would mean, not that that income is exempt from taxes, but that goes to another category where the tax is higher; because if you vote for this amendment, that means that this income will not be taxed at a rate of 10%, but 16%. By the way, I understand the intensity. But, watch out, if you vote that tax, it'll be bigger. As you know, a draft law on sports is proposed. The Ministry of Education and Sports prepares the draft, and when it is finished, it is possible to add some of the tax things that would go with it. So this is not the way we would cut the tax, it would increase it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24535	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24536	I listened very carefully to the minister as he explained this, so now I'm asking him, what was he yelling at us yesterday, when he told us that athletes don't pay taxes? If athletes are now at 16% and he's reducing them to 10%, and we'd have changed them back to 16%, what did he tell us here yesterday that athletes make a lot of money without paying taxes at all?- I'm sorry. If there is a clause by which they should pay, which so far has not been charged! If it doesn't exist, it introduces, then accepts the amendment! That's what it looks like. Otherwise, now it turns out that by accepting the amendments, we would push athletes into a new category where he has never charged them with taxes! Where's that coming from now?- I'm sorry. Either it's taxed, or it's not. If it's charged, then at the rate at which it threatens to be if we don't accept the amendment, let's accept the amendment! So the minister, one day telling us this another day another, thinks none of us are listening here.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24537	Is there more applications for this amendment? No, I don't. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by the People's MPs Olga Kircanski, Slavica Tatomir and Miroslav Christodulo. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. There's a word from the People's Messenger Miroslav Christodulo.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24538	Article 84 of the new amendment to the law, i.e. Article 84 of the Law on Income Tax of Citizens reads: "Incomes of athletes and sports experts include receipts made by professional athletes, amateur athletes, sports experts and sports experts from a sports organisation, i.e. sports organisation, sports companies and alliances, which do not have the character of profit in terms of the rules governing sports, i.e. labour relations. The revenue referred to in Article 1 shall be considered in particular as receiving on the basis of: (Now pay attention. ) "1st compensation on behalf of the conclusion of the contract (transfer, etc.); 2nd fee for the use of the character athlete; 3. Money aids to top athletes with special merits; 4. scholarships and food supplies by amateur athletes from a sports organization through the prescribed untaxable amount; 5th scholarships to top sports graduates; 6. monetary and other awards. 7. National recognition and awards for special contribution to the development and affirmation of sports; 8 awards and fees for the work of sports experts, i.e. sports experts (trainers, judges, delegates, etc.). "The position of this member's 3rd article is: "The imputable revenue for the receipt of athletes and sports experts from St. 1st and 2nd of this article is determined by rejecting the normised costs of gross income of 50%. "In other words, it actually means that by declaring 50% of gross earnings for normised costs, the tax rate for professional and other athletes is 5% per year. If I did this right, it should mean that athletes have the lowest tax rate of all taxpayers in this country. I have one impression that the most important thing here was the fact that all the newspapers on the front page have published only that news, that they're going to cheapen oil, which is undoubtedly significant, but somehow, it's less important than this, it seems to me, and less important than many other things like cooperatives, the rate of taxes and tax exemptions, dividends or the reduction of the rate of tax on income of over 600,000 dinars. I think it's a kind of camouflage, where it wants to get up to the citizens -- here's the cheap oil, and what you're not going to find out is that all the other rich people in society got tax breaks, including, in this case, professional athletes. We suggest, therefore, that these normised costs be abolished, i.e. in the draft law, paragraph 3 is deleted so that 50% are rejected before the tax rate is established.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24539	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) Members of the 12th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted to the MPs together: Radojko Petrovic, Ljubomir Mucic, Rajko Baralić, Jovan Todorovic, Dusan Cvetković, Nebojsa Jović, Dragan Jovanovic, Joca Arsic and Rade Bajic; joint MPs Bratoljub Janacković, Milorad Stanulov and Ljubodrag Grbić; joint MPs Olgica Kircanski, Slavica Tatomir and Miroslav Christodulo and MP Marko Petrović. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here's a word from MP Radojko Petric.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24540	Dear Presidency, honourable fellow Members of Parliament, Mr Minister, along with a group of SPS MPs, I have tabled an amendment to Article 12. Proposal for this law, and regarding a provision requiring payment of taxes on fees for the work of pupils, youth and student cooperatives, as well as payment of taxes on fees incurred in connection with the execution of protection operations against natural disasters, such as floods, forest fires, etc. During the adoption of this law last April, the SPS MPs proposed amendments to be untaxed receipts of citizens who made compensation for jobs on those grounds. So is it logical to pay the fee tax that citizens make with their voluntary response to participate in the construction of the embankment to prevent floods or to prevent the spread of forest fire?- I'm sorry. They then risk their lives to protect the lives of others and to prevent material damage to enormous proportions. For the government, that remained logical and taxed at a high rate of 20%. At that time, they only proved generous that they reduced the tax by 40% to their incomes for working in student, youth and student cooperatives. Now they've lost that "huge" and they're canceling that discount. It's really illogical and absurd! Instead of going further down the tax or going to full suspension for working in cooperatives, and categories of young citizens, the government is demanding an increase in taxation by 40%. It would be normal for the government to seek new forms and benefits to stimulate young people to work, not to go on destimulating. It is necessary to enable poor young people and students to earn part of the money their parents cannot provide, to obtain books, to pay tuition, and look, you have introduced this tuition which is really unattainable for a large number of young people, cannot provide funds and continue schooling or to provide some of the funds to restore wardrobe etc. It is known that these young people in cooperatives receive mostly heavy and dangerous jobs and do not have social or health insurance for them. By eliminating the tax relief so far, the employer will quickly spill over on these young people by reducing the net pay or simply won't allow them to work, will not give them jobs. The SPS requires this amendment to maintain at least the current discount if it is not going down. Mr. Djelic, you said yesterday that you suggested that a discount be lifted for abuse in these cooperatives. Maybe there are those abuses.- I'm sorry. Solve this in another way, then drive and punish the wrongdoer, and do not punish the innocent youths. Imagine if in a department store for stealing or embezzlementing some sellers would ask for the closure of that department store or how our people say it better, "it doesn't turn on the houses to drive out mice."
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24541	Any of the amendment applicants come forward for a word? Here you go. Bratoljub Janačković has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24542	Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in preparation for this amendment, New Democracy MPs, at the request of authorised representatives, and I would say the highest leadership of the Union of Student and Youth Co-operations of this Serbia, have held extensive consultations in the premises of the National Assembly on the status of youth and student cooperatives. We consider this desirable and useful practice, because the law applies to them and because of procedural things they cannot comment on the law, so I consider it desirable, necessary and mandatory practice by Members and by no means an interesting or lobby group. I won't talk too much about the reasons why student and youth cooperatives should retain privileged status. We all know that. But I'm not even going to close my eyes to any apparent abuses that have infiltrated student and youth cooperatives in the past 10 years, in the general degeneration of society. In one word, the percentage of those cooperatives that served as money launderers is really big, scary, and on that side I fully understand the minister's efforts as a good guardian of the state budget to bring these abuses down to the lowest possible extent. However, although motives and initiatives are extremely sincere and well-intentioned, it seems to me that it has gone a little too far and has made it very difficult for students and youth cooperatives who have a decades-old foundation and who have never, in their years of work, thought to abuse the privileged status given to them. So I think that perhaps the solution should have been sought in a compromise, which is in the rigorous application of existing laws and acts, or in the adoption of new ones, whose essence would be that of rigorous fines, with the right to withdraw work permits and the slightest abuse, this apparent widespread phenomenon is once and for all to be cut down. If there is not enough arguments or understanding that cooperatives still retain privileged status, I urge you ministers to make assumptions within the shortest possible time period that these cooperatives, because the population of young people - cooperatives who make their incomes really big, to give them the status they deserve. In the end, if you will allow me, I would abuse this outing for a pay phone and that all MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in their personal name and the name of the New Democracy MPs, and I also believe in the name of the entire democracy, I am sorry for the undetected, clumsy, or I do not already know any statement by the Vice-President of the Executive Committee of New Democracy, Zarko Jokanovic, who is commenting on the incident at Stefanovic-Baralic, all MPs of the National Assembly, I believe carelessly, called some predecessors of men, some human-like monkeys or Neanderthals. I believe it is a small one, but I apologize to all the MPs on my behalf and for the name of the party, and I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24543	The People's Messenger, Miroslav Christodulo, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24544	This amendment concerns Article 85. Law on income tax on citizens. In our opinion, his position 3 is disputed, therefore, in the position of Article 12(2). The amendment should change the position of Article 3 of the 85rd, of course, is about other incomes that fall under taxation, and it is said that these are labour contracts, incomes based on contracts to carry out temporary and occasional jobs, volunteer work, student, youth, student association, etc. in point 3. the tax exemption is given as follows: "to other income obtained by a member of a student, youth or student cooperative, as well as by a natural person based on the collection and sale of secondary raw materials, forest fruits and medicinal products, tax accounting is reduced by 40%". For the time being, the tax relief was 40%, and now it is proposed to say: "Member of student, youth or student associations", they are deleted. So this doesn't apply to cooperatives anymore. Of course, we've discussed it a lot. The cooperative lobbys are also mentioned here, but the ilobis that privatize on auction privatisation, so it didn't help us very much, that we understand each other -- but I want to tell you now: the previous measures have already limited the abuse of work through the cooperative student, which is the fact that a third of these cooperatives have already ceased to exist by selecting their members, that instead of working through cooperatives, which avoided paying taxes and contributions, they move to work under the labour contract. And really, if there are some members of some boards of directors, various state or public enterprises among you, consider whether you have discussed on boards whether it is better for your part-time workers to work on the work contract than to continue working on the basis that they are employed through student or youth associations. So, I don't think that argument stands any longer, that there are some fat 50-year-olds who give up for some students and work through cooperatives and that there are still tax avoidances. If there is even one student, who makes a fair living through that student cooperative, this relief should not be lifted, but in some other way you should suppress these phenomena as suggested by the previous speaker, that I do not repeat it here. So we're proposing to take item 2, Article 12. The proposal shall be deleted (paragraph 1 is not disputed).
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24545	The word has a finance minister, Mr Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24546	I'd just like to say that you don't need to create in this home pictures of killing cooperatives. They still have extremely favourable fiscal treatment, if we look at employment for a certain time or indefinite time, where contributions are paid, hiring someone through cooperatives is extremely favourable. The only thing is that it was ultra-extremely favourable before, with taxation being 9%, and now it's going to be 16%. So you have almost nothing to do with social contributions. We don't need to create a fama that suddenly nothing is possible, simply, we had a huge magnet that was much more favourable than anything else, and now we're simply reducing the attraction of this magnet and we're setting up some balance in that it's a work contract, really, but don't forget that, as far as the labour contract is concerned, you've listened to Mrs Matkovic's ideas for it, but not for cooperatives, because there are also great abuses in the form of avoidance of pension payments and health care funds for those who are actually working, they're working on a contract for a very long time, and they're going to be denied enough retirement time, and there's revision of the treatment of that work contract and that at least partially paid social security. The privileged position of cooperatives will remain, as soon as it comes or concluded, I would say, the vote of the Constitutional Charter and the transfer of the appropriate legislative framework for cooperatives to a republican level, we will propose additional measures that will help to further clear that market and those negative phenomena; or, if that does not happen, to change these things at the federal level. To conclude, associations still have very mild tax treatment, only it's no longer absurdly small. By the way, we have a little more neutrality in this system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24547	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? There is a word from MP Jovan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24548	Gentlemen Members of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, I think this is a very sensitive subject and that whatever Mr. Minister is saying, it seems to me, however, that the consequences of the possible non-admission of these amendments regarding the retention of privileges will be the abolition of youth cooperatives. You know, it's not just about youth cooperatives, which may, as the minister says, be abused. There are student and student cooperatives, in which there are reduced opportunities for these abuses, but working across these youth cooperatives is valuable for both students and students, for students above all to pay such high tuitions, which an objectively few parents and few families in Serbia can endure, and students in secondary and primary schools to obtain the necessary funding, among other things, to improve school work, but e.g. and for excursions that can be financed from these funds. All of what the Minister and this stubbornness of the Government have said in the rejection of this amendment, it says that in the future it will be more favourable for us to engage on the basis of a work contract, it might be for people who are over 30 years old and do not belong to the youth category, it would be fine, but one student of 14 or 15 years of age can't be hired through a work contract for any type of business, but we can, for example, hire him with a private entrepreneur or a farm owner, in jobs that are related to agriculture, say collecting plums, harvesting grapes, harvesting corn and many other agricultural works, which in this function can be done on agricultural land, and we know in what state of land, that there are not enough labour, etc. I think it would be a sin because there's one "bad root" for all women to be "roots." So, what the minister was saying today is that there are some lobbies, which advocate further survival of youth cooperatives, to speculate, etc., it's probably true, but the thing is that a law on youth cooperatives is supposed to apply, so if necessary, and change it in the relevant parts, sharpen discipline, sharpen criminal policy, simply, prevent abuses in the work of youth cooperatives, and students and young people, therefore, those who are originally cooperatives in youth cooperatives, allow them to obtain adequate financial resources and thus improve their standard of living, especially as regards temporary and occasional jobs, which, as a rule, lasts two, three, five or ten days, up to 30 days in one calendar year. So we can't exactly even everything up with a working relationship or work based on a work contract. The SPSse advocates the adoption of this amendment, while other regulations, any weaknesses in application, are regulated.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24549	The Minister of Finance, Mr Bozidar Djelic, called for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24550	I would like to say something simple from practice -- forming a unit for large taxpayers in Belgrade has finally led to a little more careful business checks of some major businesses, and I would say more successful businesses. That picture of most people who study and work, it's a bigger mass of those who go through cooperatives... And where is the heart, and how can you deny them what they need so that they can survive while they study, and who knows, to help their parents at home! It's simply not a reality in Serbia today. It's simply not a reality, it's not a fiscal reality, it's tens and hundreds, thousands and tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of people who are thus reserve armies in some of the most successful enterprises, where young people can't get to a single day of internship for years. How many young people I've talked to, who told me-- I'm asking the boss to hire me, and he's pushing me into a cooperative. And so, for years, he's been pushing me, because it's cheaper, and he's making a profit. Well, this is what we're talking about here, and speaking of taxation, when we've already raised this issue, and how we should deal with this issue, since there's really been a lot of abuse. We've got people who've admitted that the commission paid for by the cooperative itself is 10%! So there was more compensation for the cooperative itself than the state took from all of it. What are we talking about here?- I'm sorry. Have him cut the commission to three, four percent, and make it up to the people who work there.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24551	No more logins for the word on this amendment. On the 14th amendment, in the same text, together were MPs Radojko Petrovic, Ljubomir Mucic, Rajko Baralić, Jovan Todorovic, Dusan Cvetković, Nebojsa Jović, Drgan Jovanovic, Joca Arsic and Rde Bajic, and together, Olgica Kircanski, Slavica Tatomir and Miroslav Krisodulo. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is anyone answering for this amendment? There's a word from MP Ljubomir Mucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24552	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I am convinced that this amendment will be accepted, as I was convinced that the minister survived today's jump. For what reasons should this amendment be accepted? Otherwise, it refers to abolishing the progressive rate of tax on total income or citizen income of over 600,000 dinars, or 50,000 per month. I think this is exactly where the inconsistencies of the Minister and Government are seen. The rates of income tax on citizens and for farmers, craftsmen and employees are 14%, and here, from the progressive rate which was the lowest - 10, 15 and 20%, the rate is being introduced and reduced, i.e. the rate of income tax remains 10%. According to some of the amounts we've had so far at these rates -- income to pay a tax based on 250,000, that amount will be reduced by some 5,000, based on 500,000, that amount will be reduced by 27,500, and for those who have over a million dinars, the amount will be reduced by 77,000 dinars. It's really illogical that those who have the most, that those at these rates have the greatest relief and release. Also, I don't think the minister agrees with his own opinion, that he means French and speaks Serbian, so I can't possibly grasp this discussion that was in the argument yesterday, which refers to the total income tax of citizens. Why isn't this an end to progressiveness? Because those who earn more will pay a marginal rate of 24.5, where 14% times 10% by comfort method, which means we have a progressive rate that doesn't exist. The margin rate is the same for both the two and the third, 24.5% and those who earn more will pay more taxes. What we do here is we respect your reality and that new balance in the IRS, because if we look at what happened this year we'll see that we've only had 3,280 citizens who've reported income tax, that annual, which simply has nothing to do with reality. That's what the minister said. I don't think any such confusion can really contribute to accepting this new tax policy that's been proposed here. Is it necessary for law school students to point out to professors who receive 90,000 or 70,000 a month without the tax administration having no record or that these professors have not filed tax returns for the total income of citizens? On the other hand, I think that this rate really in this transitional period must be the rate that punishes those and charges progressively from those who have the most and does not increase the number of taxpayers that will pay this tax.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24553	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The National MPs of Olga Kircanski, Slavica Tatomir and Miroslav Christodulo together submitted to the 16th Amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The People's Messenger, Miroslav Christodulo, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24554	Before we start measuring time, if we can be clear, is this an amendment to Article 14 or to Article 16? (President: On Article 16.) What happened to the amendment to Article 14? (President: You did not sign up for the word in good time, you were not careful. Now you have a chance at Article 16.) I can't remember, and we followed very closely. (President: Check the stenographic notes and do not fall for provocations. You didn't hear, I called you. We don't buy it, we just haven't heard it. Article 16 states that this should enter into force on 1 January 2003 -- no, I apologize, the provisions of Article 13(1) and Article 14 of this law are applicable in determining the annual income tax of citizens for 2002. Therefore, Article 14 abolishes the progress on citizens' incomes of over 600,000 dinars; more specifically, it is not abolished, since we led the controversy yesterday, but rather the progress is diminished. So, all that talk we had yesterday, (not to repeat it now, I don't have time, and it's not a topic) mostly, we think it is an incentive, it is to expand the tax base, it is that citizens pay that tax more, but then there are arguments for reducing sales taxes, the same arguments that were not acceptable to the minister. So, we believe that citizens who pay the fastest tax on traffic, are not given reliefs, and citizens who earn over 600,000 dinars, and you know how big a profit that is, are given tax reliefs. So instead of 15 and 20%, now they're going to pay 10%. Now here it is proposed, in this Article 16, that it be since 2002! We find this unacceptable for two reasons. First of all, this is a retroactive measure, so something that's already happened. People had already earned and crossed that income of 300,000, of 450,000 and 600,000 dinars, before, after that progress, and now someone suddenly counted on them to pay 15% of the tax, and now it needs to be something less or more. What we're trying to say is that the retroactive fact is never good, and that's what we're always looking for is a special decision from the Assembly, for famous reasons, not to elaborate. The second reason, more importantly, is that legal and economic conditions must be known at the beginning of the fiscal year. It is not acceptable to change fiscal rules for the year. It's just that we think this should come into effect, if at all adopted in this sense, only since 1 January 2003, i.e. that it applies to the fiscal year 2003 and not to the fiscal year 2002. If you look at comparative legislation, then don't just take repressive measures from this legislation, such as the depth of 1,000 dinars of non-account citizens, but also look at these measures. It is impossible to change the rules during fiscal years. Simply, they need to know what the 1 January fiscal year looks like.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24555	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the draft law in particular, do we ask if the proposing's representative would like to give the final word? He doesn't want to. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. We move to the 7th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF THE ACCIAS LAW You have adopted the bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Tomislav Nikolic, Miroslav Veljkovic, Radoslav Veselinović and together Dusan Cvetkovic, Rade Bajic, Miomir Ilic and Hranislav Peric. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has conducted a joint principled search on this agenda point, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dusan Cvetkovic, Rade Bajic, Milomir Ilic and Hranislav Peric. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is by MP Dusan Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24556	Dear Presidency, colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr. Minister, taking seriously the problems of oil refineries, both private and those within the NIS, the government has proposed that the excise on motor oil and oil from 50 dinars be reduced to 45. A group of SPS MPs, which I represent, suggested that the 50 dinar reduction go to 40 for several reasons. The main reason why we suggest that excise duty be reduced to 40 dinars is because oil refineries with this reduction in excise duty can practically be absolutely competitive over the next six months with all those foreign oils that appear on our market, given that Article 17 of this law regulates that every three months depending on how the cost increases move, to change excise duties. So we have the excise that we adopted last year, which was 50 dinars, it is now, at 79.84 dinars, so in a month and a half of excise tax from 45 dinars, it will cross the excise and the value of 50 dinars that has been proposed. That's why I think it's good to help oil refineries, and hence the Serbian government, help the budget to put as much money into the budget as possible from our own production, to reduce this level of excise duty from 50 to 40. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24557	Is there anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Miroljub Veljkovic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. I find that MP Miroljub Veljkovic withdraws the amendment to Article 1. Proposal of the Excise Act. National MP Tomislav Nikolic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Here is the word of the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24558	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm just going to look back on the explanation that came from the previous amendment, and the parts of the amendment that I submitted, given by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which refers to our vasal relationship with the World Trade Organisation, the GAT. The government says it cannot burden the products of foreign and domestic origin differently because they do not allow it to be regulated by the World Trade Organisation. We have applied for admission, so we will be admitted to the World Trade Organization as a full, equal member. The basic principles of the World Trade Organisation are the free exchange or flow of people, goods and capital. This basic principle is based on the equality of states in the world, compared to the SRJ, and the Republic of Serbia, which, as an opposition MP, is saying, unlike the official Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia who asked us here yesterday after a pay phone, are we still in Yugoslavia, as if he doesn't know it - is never respected in relation to us, never! And if he were respected, we would never be seducing sanctions and economic blockades! We are a country that must recover not only from the ten-year rule of an idea, but from the consequences of ten years of isolation and sanctions and bombing that have destroyed more than 100 years of sanctions with us to destroy. Now, in order to recover, we want to apply the standards imposed by the World Trade Organisation. Have a little understanding, we barely fixed those refineries for you in the country's restoration, so you could produce something in these refineries when you came to power. They don't produce much oil, they don't produce oil and they don't compete with world producers -- they can't be more quality, they can't be cheaper. Just burden them in the same way as you burden the foreign ones, bring them, because the cost of production is extremely high with us, because we have huge taxes, bring them even more expensive than foreign ones and can buy one of you and refine for three, four euros! When sugars go, why don't we go to the refineries? As far as the fuel from the bunker is concerned, the expression bunker is taking over, although the Serbs only associate us with the war, and at least you said the trap, so let's figure out what this is about. I know from which federal regulations were taken over, but times change, I guess you brought something modern from France, you didn't bring... (President: I warn you of overstepping allowed time. )......................................................................................................... from France, you just mentioned yesterday. I'd use the right that you won't give me. (President: All right. So you can call it a customs warehouse, call it tanks under customs supervision. There's a termology for it. Please tell me, why can't we get our domestic air carrier to release the excise on fuel used in international flights when it's known that he's not released in other countries of those excises that their domestic carriers have been released?- I'm sorry. That's where he was discriminated against. He's even forced to watch it fly so he can come back with the fuel tank that's been poured on us. Why now? Come on, let's ruin everything alive. If you're listening to the World Trade Organization, the World Bank, the IMF, we have nothing to discuss here! If it's all theirs, then they won't let us discuss it! They'll write us decrees, orders, we'll get the pheromones! That's what this is about. Give it while this National Assembly has something to talk about, to make sure that those who finance us are put into some equal treatment with the others. No, this is a stampede, this is collapsing one after another. I don't know, one of you is aware of these consequences. That'll do, I guarantee you. You can jump like you came from Australia, I'll find you eventually, when we win, I'll find you. One of you is aware of how much you are destroying Serbia. Many are not aware. Forgive them God knows not what they do.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24559	I warn you to take care of what you say, given that you have two warnings and that the next step is to take words.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24560	When Mrs. Micic here threatens those who used to be in power, you're fine, fine. When they threaten those who are now in power, which is very brave, I show to this world and give great courage, but my patron saint was a great fighter, you warn, you guard the government! Let me see if that government is good or not. If I said sugars go for a few euros, is that true or not true? If I said the refineries would leave, let them go, so if they don't leave, give me a warning for saying they're going cheap and they're not going! It's all going to Serbia! In Serbia, everything comes down to nothing and the poor, the mixed, you sell, you kidnap...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24561	I'm warning you, time's over.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24562	I've never timed out.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-21-0.u24563	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) National MP Radoslav Veselinovic submitted an amendment proposing that a new Article 3a be added in front of Article 3a. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The applicant for the amendment is not present. Is anyone else answering for a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed a search of the bill in particular, do we ask if the Proposer wants to give the final word? He doesn't want to. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since the National Assembly has held a debate on all points of the agenda, pursuant to Article 81(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby appoint Tuesday, November 26th as the day for voting on all items of the agenda of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, starting at 11.00 p.m. Bon appétit. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, the session is attended by 179 MPs and I ask you to insert identification cards into your MPs to determine the quorum. I find that using the electronic system has established that we have a quorum. I would like to inform you that the following MPs will be absent: Vukosav Tomašev, Miodrag Jaćimović, Slobodan Pavlovic, Borisvoje Drakulović, Karolj Kermeci and Petar Misic. Since the National Assembly has completed a debate on all agenda points of the Third Session of the Second Regular Session in 2002, we are moving to a decision-making session. First item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Tax Procedure and Tax Administration. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft tax procedure and tax administration in principle to vote. I conclude the vote: for 136, against 55, a abstentioned one, did not vote six, out of a total of 198 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly has adopted the bill, in principle, we are moving to a decision on amendments. I remind you that MP Djordje Mamula, at the session of the Legislative Committee, withdrew amendments to Articles 41 and 134, as well as that it was found that an integral part of the bill had become an amendment of the People's MPs: Cedomir Jovanovic to members 10, 18, 38, 41, 43, 55, 65, 70, 72, 76, 78, 80, 81, 84, 112, 119, 157, 167, 172 and 196; Bratoljubja Janačaković to members 31 and 116; Đorđa Mamula to member 47; Amendment to Article 165, who, in the same text, submitted joint MPs Dragan Jovanovic, Rajko Baralić, Jovan Todorović, Nebojmira Jović, Slobodan Tomović and Hranislav Perić and individual National MPs Vuurović, Južidar Vuurović, Đorđao Mamulovanović, Jadovanović, Jadovni Mudovnavlić and Mirovnimić, Mir, Mirnomovni, Mir, Mir, Mir, Mirno and Mirnomić. On Article 3 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Alexander Vukic and Milorad Stanulov submitted. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for 54, against 130, a abstentioned one, did not vote 16, out of a total of 201 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Miroljub Veljkovic submitted to the 4th amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for 38, against 142 abstentions, 21 did not vote, of a total of 201 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Vucurovic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for 41, against 142 abstentions, 21 of the 204 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Rajko Baralic, Ljubomir Mucic, Nebojsa Jovic, Zivodarka Dacin, Radojko Petric, Hranislav Peric and Milan Janaković. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for 45, against 145, there were no abstentions, there were no 12 votes, of a total of 202 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for 36, against 142 abstentions, 29 of the 207 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 9th amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for 39, against 147 abstentions, 21 of the 207 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for 40, against 149, the abstentions, did not vote 19, out of a total of 208 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 10th Amendment were submitted jointly by MPs Rajko Baralić, Ljubomir Mucic, Nebojsa Jovic, Živodarka Dacin, Radojko Petric, Hranislav Peric and Milan Jankovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for 47, against 152, the abstentions, did not vote 9, out of a total of 208 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th Amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Rajko Baralic, Ljubomir Mucic, Nebojsa Jovic, Zivodarka Dacin, Radojko Petric, Hranislav Peric and Milan Jankovic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for 35, against 151 abstentions, 21 of the 207 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 28th amendment, MPs Radojko Petrovic, Ljubomir Mucic, Rajko Baralić, Jovan Todorovic, Nebojsa Jovic, Joca Arsic, Rade Bajic, Dusan Cvetkovic, Hranislav Peric and Miomir Ilic submitted together. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for 35, against 147 abstentions, 17 of the 199 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 32nd Amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Radojko Petrovic, Ljubomir Mucic, Rajko Baralić, Jovan Todorovic, Nebojsa Jović, Joca Arsic, Rade Bajic, Dusan Cvetkovic, Hranislav Peric and Miomir Ilic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for 31, against 152, the abstentions, did not vote 13, out of 196 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Miroljub Veljkovic submitted to the 35th amendment. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I am concluding the vote and I realize that there were no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 35th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Radojko Petrovic, Ljubomir Mucic, Rajko Baralić, Jovan Todorovic, Nebojsa Jović, Joca Arsic, Rade Bajić, Dusan Cvetkovic, Hranislav Peric and Miomir Ilic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm concluding the vote and I'm saying that for 32, against 156, there were no abstentions, there were no votes, no votes, eight, out of ugno 196. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Bozidar Vucurovic submitted to the 36th amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and find that for two, against 153, one was abstained, 40 out of 196 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 45th Amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm concluding the vote and I'm saying that for three, against 148, he was one, he didn't vote 43 out of 195. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 46th Amendment was filed by the People's MP, George Mamul. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm concluding the vote and I'm saying that for 55, against 92, with six abstentions, there was no vote of 41 out of 194. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP Milorad Stanulov submitted to Article 49 of the amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm concluding the vote and I'm saying that for 38, against 135, two abstentions, 20 out of 195 didn't vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 49th Amendment was submitted by Parliament member Gordana Pop-Lazic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm concluding the vote and I'm saying that for one, against 151, there was one abstention, there was no vote of 43 out of 196. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 50th amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm concluding the vote and I'm realizing that for two, against 154, there were no abstentions, there was no vote of 40 out of 196. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Miroljub Veljkovic submitted to the 52nd amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm concluding the vote and I'm realizing that there was no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 57th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Radojko Petrovic, Ljubomir Mucic, Rajko Baralić, Jovan Todorovic, Nebojsa Jovic, Joca Arsic, Rade Bajic, Dusan Cvetkovic, Hranislav Peric and Miomir Ilic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm concluding the vote and I'm realizing that for 35, against 150, the abstentions were not, 11 out of 196 voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 62nd amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and I find that for one, against 151, there were no abstentions, there was no vote of 44 out of 196. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 67th Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Vukic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm concluding the vote and I'm realizing that for one, against 155, there were no abstentions, there was no vote of 40 out of 196. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 68th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Stanulov. The Government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment to be possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm concluding the vote and I'm saying that for 43, against 131, two abstentions, 19 out of 195 didn't vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Adam Urosevic submitted together to the 68th amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm concluding the vote and I'm saying that for 35, against 147, there were no abstentions, there was no vote of 14 out of 196. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Radojko Petrovic, Ljubomir Mucic, Rajko Baralić, Jovan Todorovic, Nebojsa Jovic, Joca Arsic, Rade Bajić, Dusan Cvetkovic, Hranislav Peric and Miomir Ilic together. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for 33, against 150, with abstentions, 15 did not vote, out of 198 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP Milorad Stanulov submitted to Article 76 of the amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee, did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for 16, against 134, two abstentions were held, no vote was taken 44, of 196 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Radojko Petrovic, Ljubomir Mucic, Rajko Baralić, Jovan Todorovic, Nebojsa Jovic, Joca Arsic, Rade Bajic, Dusan Cvetkovic, Hranislav Peric and Miomir Ilic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for 33, against 151 abstentions, 12 were not voted, of a total of 196 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Radojko Petrovic, Ljubomir Mucic, Rajko Baralić, Jovan Todorovic, Nebojsa Jovic, Joca Arsic, Rade Bajić, Dusan Cvetkovic, Hranislav Peric and Miomir Ilic submitted together to the 77th amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for 30, against 153, the abstentions, did not vote 13, out of 196 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Radojko Petrovic, Ljubomir Mucic, Rajko Baralić, Jovan Todorovic, Nebojsa Jovic, Joca Arsic, Rade Bajic, Dusan Cvetkovic, Hranislav Peric and Miomir Ilic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for 34, against 151 abstentions, there are no 11 votes, out of 196 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Bratomir Janackovic submitted to the 84th amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for 38, against 133, the abstentions, there was no vote of 25, of 196 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Radojko Petric, Ljubomir Mucic, Rajko Baralić, Jovan Todorovic, Nebojsa Jovic, Joca Arsic, Rade Bajic, Dusan Cvetkovic, Hranislav Peric and Miomir Ilic. The Government, the Committee on Finance, did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment as possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for 33, against 152, the abstentions, were not voted 11 out of 196 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 86 of the amendment, with a correction, was filed by the People's MP Milorad Stanulov. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for 33, against 113, two were abstentions, not voting 48, of 196 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Radojko Petrovic, Ljubomir Mucic, Rajko Baralić, Jovan Todorovic, Nebojsa Jovic, Joca Arsic, Rade Bajic, Dusan Cvetkovic, Hranislav Peric and Miomir Ilic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for 77, against 109 abstentions, there are no votes, no votes, of a total of 194 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Milorad Stanulov, submitted to the 90th Amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for 42, against 127, a abstentioned one, was not voted 24 out of 194 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Radojko Petrovic, Ljubomir Mucic, Rajko Baralić, Jovan Todorovic, Nebojsa Jovic, Joca Arsic, Rade Bajic, Dusan Cvetkovic, Hranislav Peric and Miomir Ilic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for 32, against 151, the abstentions, did not vote 13, out of 196 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 102, the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against 157 abstentions, voted 42 out of 194 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, in the same text, was submitted by the MPs George Mamula and Milorad Stanulov. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for 103, against 74, the abstentions were not voted 18, out of 195 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. On Article 106, the amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Milorad Stanulov. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that for 15, against 136, the abstention of three, he did not vote 41, out of 195 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Adam Urosevic submitted the amendment together. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that for 40, against 147 abstentions, there were no, there were no votes of eight, of 195 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 112, the amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Milorad Stanulov. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that for two, against 145, there were no abstentions, there were no 48 votes, out of 195 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic to Article 117. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one was in favour of, against 149, the abstentions were not, had not voted 46 out of 195 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Radojko Petrovic, Ljubomir Mucic, Rajko Baralić, Jovan Todorovic, Nebojsa Jovic, Joca Arsic, Rade Bajic, Dusan Cvetkovic, Hranislav Peric and Miomir Ilic. The Government, the Finance Committee, did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that for 38, there were no abstentions against 147, no vote was 10, of 195 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Finance has submitted to Article 134 of the amendment. The Prime Minister accepted the amendment during the review of the draft law in particular, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. On Article 137, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Vukic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one voted for, against 145, the abstentions, no 52, of 197 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Gordana Pop-Lazic, submitted to the 140th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that for 22, against 150, the abstentions were not voted 26 out of 198 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Radojko Petrovic, Ljubomir Mucic, Dragan Jovanovic, Dusan Cvetkovic and Milan Jankovic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that for 32, against 148, there were no abstentions, there were no 18 votes, out of 198 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 173 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Stanulov. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that for 19, against 126, one abstention did not vote 52 out of 198 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Radojko Petrovic, Ljubomir Mucic, Dragan Jovanovic, Dusan Cvetkovic and Milan Jankovic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that for 33, against 148, there were no abstentions, there were no 16 votes, out of 197 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Todorovic, Jovan Todorovic, Ljubomir Mucic, Hranislav Peric and Milan Jankovic, and MPs Aleksandar Vukic and Djordje Mamula. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that for 71, against 107, two abstentions, 17 of the 197 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Todorovic, Jovan Todorovic, Ljubomir Mucic, Hranislav Peric and Milan Jankovic, and National MP Natasa Jovanovic, to Article 176. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that for 38, against 144, one abstention, was not voted 13 out of 196 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 177th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Todorovic, Jovan Todorovic, Ljubomir Mucic, Hranislav Peric and Milan Jankovic, and MP Miroljub Veljkovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that for 30, against 150, the abstentions were not, had not voted 17, out of 197 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, in the same text, was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Todorovic, Jovan Todorovic, Ljubomir Mucic, Hranislav Peric and Milan Jankovic and National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote. For 23, against 139, a abstentioned one, was not voted 35, a total of 198 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, in the same text, was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Todorovic, Jovan Todorovic, Ljubomir Mucic, Hranislav Peric and Milan Jankovic and MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote. For 29, against 145, there were no abstentions, no 24 votes, a total of 198 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Radojko Petrovic, Ljubomir Mucic, Dragan Jovanovic, Dusan Cvetkovic and Milan Jankovic. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm closing the vote. For 30, against 149, there were no abstentions, not 19, a total of 198 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, in the same text, was submitted to Article 196 by MPs Miroljub Veljkovic and Djordje Mamula. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote. For 30, against 106, three abstentions, 57 did not vote, a total of 196 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on amendments, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. Since 57 MPs have not voted, I ask the MPs to determine whether we have a quorum before deciding on a bill in general. I'm guessing we have a quorum. 181 MPs are present in the O.R. I put to the vote a bill on tax procedure and tax administration, in general. I ask the Members of Parliament to plead with the vote. I'm closing the vote. For 143 against 43, the abstentions were not voted by three, a total of 189 MPs. I find that the National Assembly passed by majority votes a bill on the tax procedure and tax administration. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF THE IMPLEMENTATION LAW Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Transport Tax Act, in principle. I ask the Members of Parliament to plead with the vote. I'm closing the vote. For 155, against 30, there were no abstentions, no five, a total of 190 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. I remind you that the following MPs have informed, writtenly, that they are withdrawing the amendments: Živanko Radovanchev to Article 1, Marko Djurisic to Article 1, Gordana Comić to Article 1, and to Article 2, Dusan Ilic and Srdjan Petrovic to Article 1, which submitted on 8 November 2002, Zoran D. Nikolic to Article 1 and Vladimir Garčević to Article 2, and that the amendment of the Finance Committee to Article 1 has been withdrawn. I also remind you that an integral part of the bill has become an amendment of the MPs Dusan Ilic and Srdjan Petrovic to Article 1. Proposal to add a new member in front of Article 1. National MP Bojan Kostreš has tabled an amendment proposing that a new member be added in front of article 1. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm closing the vote. For 171, two, abstentioned one, was not voted 18, a total of 192 MPs. I find that most of the votes were accepted by the National Assembly by the amendment of MP Bojan Kostreš. National MPs Algica Kircanski, Slavica Tatomir and Miroslav Christodulo together submitted an amendment proposing to add a new member to article 1. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm closing the vote. For 49, against 122, two abstentions, 17 did not vote, a total of 190 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The First Amendment was submitted by Parliament member Gordana Pop-Lazic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm closing the vote. For 15, against 149, there were no abstentions, there was no vote of 27, a total of 191 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 1st amendment, with correction, together were the MPs Radojko Petrovic, Ljubomir Mucic, Rajko Baralić, Jovan Todorovic, Nebojsa Jovic, Joca Arsic, Rade Bajic, Dusan Cvetkovic, Hranislav Peric and Miomir Ilic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote. For 26, against 153, there were no abstentions, there was no vote of 15, a total of 194 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Radoslav Veselinovic submitted to the 1st amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote. For eight, against 142 abstentions, there were no 44 votes, out of a total of 194 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Comic and Marko Djurisic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote. For two, against 140, there were no abstentions, there was no 53 vote, out of 195 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Tomic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote. For 33, against 110, with 35 abstentions, 17 of the 195 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Kostreš. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote. For 180, against six, there were no abstentions, there was no 9 vote, out of 195 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment most of the votes. The First Amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Marijan Risticevic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote. For five, against 133, there were no abstentions, no 57 votes, out of 195 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Sinisa Mitrovic submitted to the 1st amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote. For 10, against 136, a abstentioned one, was not voted 45, out of 192 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MPs Olga Kircanski, Slavica Tatomir and Miroslav Christodulo submitted to the 1st Amendment. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote. For 38, against 92, abstentions 39, he did not vote 21 out of 190 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Olga Kircanski, Slavica Tatomir and Miroslav Christodulo together submitted an amendment proposing that a new member be added after article 1. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote. For 24, against 114, three abstentions, 49 did not vote, out of 190 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Alexander Vukic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote. For 19, against 143 abstentions, there was no vote of 31, out of 193 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Comic and Marko Djurisic. The Government's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote. For nine, against 101, with 31 abstentions, there was no 48 vote, out of 189 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Stevan Guduric. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote. For 14, there were no 132 abstentions, no 43 votes, out of 189 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 3rd amendment were submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote. There were no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Branislav Kovacevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote. For 10, against 131, a abstentioned one, did not vote 46, out of a total of 188 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Radojko Petrovic, Ljubomir Mucic, Rajko Baralić, Jovan Todorovic, Nebojsa Jovic, Joca Arsic, Rade Bajic, Dusan Cvetkovic, Hranislav Peric and Miomir Ilic. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote. For 29, against 140, there were no abstentions, 19 did not vote, out of 188 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Radojko Petrić, Ljubomir Mucic, Rajko Baralić, Jovan Todorovic, Nebojsa Jović, Joca Arsic, Rade Bajic, Dusan Cvetković, Hranislav Perić and Miomir Ilic, joint MPs Olgica Kircanski, Slavica Tatomir and Miroslav Krisodulo and individual MP Miroljub Veljković and MP Zivko Selaković. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: 49, v. 92, abstention 28, did not vote 18, out of 187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Transport Tax Act as a whole. I ask the Members of Parliament to plead with the vote. I conclude the vote: for 146, against 32, the abstentions, did not vote eight, out of 186 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Transport Tax Act. We move to the third item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Tax Act. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the company profit tax law, in principle. I ask the Members of Parliament to plead with the vote. I conclude the vote: for 140, against 31, a abstention one, did not vote 14, a total of 186 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote, has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become amendments of MP Cedomir Jovanovic to Articles 5 and 7. National MP Radoslav Veselinovic submitted to the 1st amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for 15, against 125, the abstentions were not voted 44, out of 184 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Vukic. The government and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for 16, against 132 abstentions, there was no 36 vote, out of 184 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 5th amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for one, against 139 abstentions, there was no vote of 45, out of 185 MPs. I find that the assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th Amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Jovan Todorovic, Radojko Petrovic, Ljubomir Mucic, Rajko Baralic and Miomir Ilic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for the 27, against the 140, the abstentioned, did not vote 19, out of 186 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 7th amendment was submitted by MP Natasa Jovanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for 15, against 138, the abstentions did not vote 32, out of 185 MPs. I find that the assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Jovan Todorovic, Radojko Petrovic, Ljubomir Mucic, Rajko Baralic and Miomir Ilic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for 31, against 138, the abstentions were not voted 16 out of 185 MPs. I find that the assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Jovan Todorovic, Radojko Petrovic, Ljubomir Mucic, Rajko Baralic and Miomir Ilic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for 22, against 138, the abstentions were not voted 25, out of 185 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Marijan Risticevic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for 21, against 131 abstentions, there was no 33 vote, out of 185 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the corporate tax law as a whole. I ask the Members of Parliament to plead with the vote. I conclude the vote: for 143, against 32, the abstentions were not voted by 11, a total of 186 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Company's profit. We move on to item 4 of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Taxes on Use, COUNTRY AND CONTAINING GOODS. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Taxes for use, holding and targeting goods, in principle. I ask the Members of Parliament to plead with the vote. I conclude the vote and find that for 145, against 29, the abstentions, 11 of the 185 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill of principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament member Gordana Pop-Lazic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I am concluding the vote and I am saying that for 18, there is no abstention against 137, 30 of the 185 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP Anita Beretic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Government and the Finance Committee did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and I find that for 21 against 107, with 27 abstentions, 31 of 186 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Radojko Petrovic, Slobodan Tomovic, Rajko Baralic and Joca Arsic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Government and the Finance Committee did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and I find that for 31, against 135, the abstentions, there is no 16 vote, out of 182 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Ilic. The Government and the Finance Committee did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and I find that for 33, against 104 abstentions, there are no votes, not 46, out of 183 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Taxes on Use, Holding and Wearing Goods in Wholes. I ask the Members of Parliament to make a statement by voting on this proposal. I conclude the vote and I find that for 141 against 30, the abstentions were not, 13 of the 184 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted, by majority, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Taxes on Use, Keeping and Wearing Goods. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Taxes on Property. Since we've done a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we're moving on to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the property tax law, anyway. I am concluding the vote and I am saying that for 143 against 28, there is one abstention, 12 out of 184 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The People's MP Gordana Pop-Lazic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the competent committees did not accept this amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I am concluding the vote and I realize that there was no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Todorovic, Radojko Petrovic, Joca Arsic and Ljubomir Mucic. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I am concluding the vote and I am realizing that 30, against 139 abstentions, were not voted 13 out of 182 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 4th amendment. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and I realize that there were no, against 138, abstentions, no 45 votes, out of 183 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Property Tax Act, in general. I ask the Members of Parliament to plead with the vote. I conclude the vote and I find that for 140, against 29, the abstentions were not, 13 of the 182 MPs voted. I find that the National Assembly has adopted most of the votes the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Property Tax Act. We move to the 6th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Tax on the Income of Citizens. Since we have completed a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we are moving to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Income Tax, in principle. I ask the Members of Parliament to plead with the vote. I conclude the vote and find that for 138, against 26, there were no abstentions, 19 of the 183 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill in principle by majority. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become the amendment of MP Marko Đurisic to member 1 and amendment of MPs Radojko Petrovic, Ljubomer Mucic, Rajko Baralić, Jovan Todorovic, Dusan Cvetkovic, Nebojsa Jovic, Dragan Jovanovic, Joce Arić and Radet Bajic as member 7. The National Envoy Alexander Vukic submitted to the 1st Amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am concluding the vote and I find that there was no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Radojko Petrovic, Ljubomir Mucic, Rajko Baralić, Jovan Todorovic, Nebojsa Jovic, Dragan Jovanovic, Joca Arsic, Rade Bajic and Dusan Cvetkovic. The Government, the Finance Committee, did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment as possible over time. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for 22, against 135, the abstentioned did not vote 27, out of 184 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MPs Olga Kircanski, Slavica Tatomir and Miroslav Christodulo submitted to the 1st Amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for the 18, against the 119, the abstentions, did not vote 46, out of the 183 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 4th amendment, in essence in the same text, the MPs Radojko Petrovic, Ljubomir Mucic, Rajko Baralić, Jovan Todorovic, Nebojsa Jović, Joca Arsic, Rade Bajic, Dusan Cvetkovic and Dragan Jovanovic; MP Zivko Selaković and MP Natasa Jovanovic together. The Government, the Finance Committee, did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for 31, against 134, the abstentions, did not vote 19, out of 184 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 5th amendment, in essence in the same text, the MPs Radojko Petrovic, Ljubomir Mucic, Rajko Baralić, Jovan Todorovic, Nebojsa Jović, Joca Arsic, Rade Bajić, Dusan Cvetkovic and Dragan Jovanovic; MP Gordana Pop - Lazić and MP Zlata Djeric, together. The Government, the Finance Committee, did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for 44, against 125, with two abstentions, did not vote 13, out of 184 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Miroljub Veljkovic. The Government, the Finance Committee, did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for 19, against 136, the abstentioned did not vote 31, out of 186 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic. The Government, the Finance Committee, did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for one against 136, the abstentions were not voted 49, out of 186 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MPs Olga Kircanski, Slavica Tatomir and Miroslav Christodulo submitted the 8th Amendment together. The Government, the Finance Committee, did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: 44, against 121, two abstentions, no vote of 20, of 187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Radojko Petrovic, Ljubomir Mucic, Rajko Baralić, Jovan Todorovic, Nebojsa Jovic, Joca Arsic, Rade Bajic, Dusan Cvetkovic and Dragan Jovanovic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for 33, against 142 abstentions, 12 did not vote, out of 187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 11th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Stanulov. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee are not this amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for 33, against 129, four were abstained, not voted 21, out of 187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by the People's MPs Olga Kircanski, Slavica Tatomir and Miroslav Christodulo. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for 76, against 86, a abstentioned one, did not vote 24, out of 187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 12th amendment, in the same text, they submitted: together, MPs Radojko Petrić, Ljubomir Mucic, Rajko Baralić, Jovan Todorovic, Nebojsa Jović, Joca Arsic, Rade Bajic, Dusan Cvetkovic and Dragan Jovanovic; together, MPs Olgica Kircanski, Slavica Tatomir and Miroslav Krisodulo, and MP Marko Petrovic. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: 98, against 79, the abstentions, did not vote 11, out of 188 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted... (Glasses -- as they are not, for 98). [[elevator, disdain]] I'm sorry, I understand that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment by a majority of votes. On the 14th amendment, in the same text, they submitted: together, MPs Radojko Petrić, Ljubomir Mucic, Rajko Baralić, Jovan Todorovic, Nebojsa Jović, Joca Arsic, Rade Bajic, Dusan Cvetkovic and Dragan Jovanovic; and joint MPs Olga Kircanski, Slavica Tatomir and Miroslav Krisodulo. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for 23, against 146, the abstentions, did not vote 19, out of a total of 188 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Olga Kircanski, Slavica Tatomir and Miroslav Christodulo. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that for 17 against 125, two abstentions, 45 of the 189 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Income Tax, in general. I conclude the vote and declare that for 115, against 12, abstention 43, 19 of the 189 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income Tax. We move to the 7th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF ACCUSES Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Excise Act, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare that for 149, v. 9, a top one, he did not vote 31, out of 190 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I remind you that during the search of the draft law in particular, MP Miroljub Veljkovic withdrew the amendment to Article 1. It's a bill of law. Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dusan Cvetkovic, Rade Bajic, Miomir Ilic and Hranislav Peric. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that for 32, against 146 abstentions, there were no votes of 12, out of 190 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Tomislav Nikolic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one voted in favour against 146 abstentions, no vote was taken 44 out of 190 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Radoslav Veselinovic tabled an amendment proposing that a new article be added to article 3. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that for 31, against 138, there were no abstentions, there was no vote of 20, out of 189 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting on the vote of the Amendment Bill and the Supplements to the Excise Act, in general. I conclude the vote and declare that for 150, against 32, there were no abstentions, there were no votes of 8 out of 190 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Excise Act. This is what we've done today's work. I would like to thank you for your attention and invite the heads of Parliament to the meeting at 1400 hours.
