ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24814	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fifth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002. I would like to inform you that according to official records, today's session, according to reports, there are 108 MPs present. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, more than 84 MPs are present in the hall, which is, under Article 82(2). Rules of Procedure, enough for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Natasa Milojevic, Slobodan Pavlovic, VlatkoSekulović, Ratimir Svirčević, Miodrag Jaćimović, in the morning Dragan Jocic and Vera Markovic. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. Also, according to members 83 and 84. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly, Mrs Natasa Micic, invited representatives of the Centre for Free Elections and Democracy, the People's Movement of Resistance, the National Democratic Institute, representatives of the University Professors' Association and USAID to this session. I welcome the guests present at the fifth regular session. Notice on the resignations of MPs - Dr Predrag Canovic and Radosav Savijević, acting as MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the report by the Administrative Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the examination of these paragraphs, with a proposal that the National Assembly, on the basis of Article 88(2) and paragraphs 2 and 3. The Law on the Selection of Members of the People's Parliaments states that the term of office of these Members of Parliament should be suspended. In accordance with Article 88(2) and paragraphs 2 and 3. The Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Administrative Committee, finds that the mandate ended, before the time was up for which they were elected, the MPs Dr Predrag Canovic and Radosavo Savitjevic, elected from the election list of the Party of Serbian Unity -- Borislav Pelevic. According to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the discharge of seats in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be carried out. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and DEFINITIONS ON THE BUDGET OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA FOR 2002 (principle debate) According to the lists submitted for the application for speakers, for the purpose of the principle debate on the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2002, the first registered speaker is the National MP Golub Rajic; after that, MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24815	The Honored Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, on the agenda of the Fifth Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, following the final account for 2000 and the attack on the previous regime, as well as the final account for 2001, which was carried out by this authority, we are considering the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2002, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia on an urgent procedure, and as explained in the explanation - so as not to cause adverse consequences for the work of state authorities and organisations. Thus, the adoption of this law is significant in order to ensure the necessary conditions for the functioning and operation of state bodies and organisations. The budget system law found that an increase in expenditure or expenditure, i.e. revenue or income cuts, could occur during a fiscal year. The budget shall be balanced by reducing planned expenditure or expenditure, or by introducing new revenue or revenue. Here certain increases have been made without increasing the total volume of the budget, which was accepted by the adoption of the Republic of Serbia's 2002 budget, and the increases have been proposed to burden the reduction of certain appraisals, where the structure of the determined expenditure changes. The SPS MPs also proposed more funds for transfers to compulsory social insurance organisations when considering the 2002 draft budget law, as well as social security benefits from the budget. However, Minister Djelic, the government and the ruling DOS coalition did not accept this, explaining that the proposed budget law is without error and ideal. These expenditures may be justified, because a large number of people are out of a job. A lot of them don't work and live at a minimum of the level of existence. However, subsidies to non-financial corporations, particularly the public company RTS of 2.6 billion dinars, are unacceptable, and in particular the reason that the untimely adoption of a legal framework to determine the source of funding for this company and that the government had to make decisions to enable this DOS company to function from the budget reserve, and it should be the service of all citizens. So, this government gave 2.6 billion to television, and the municipality of Negotin, which had inexplicable damages from frost and drought in 2002, at the discretion of the competent commission, out of billions and 29 million, had cleared only two million dinars, or 50 dinars per hectare, and only for the area under the wheat, while for other cultures nothing. For the farmers of Krajina, this is ridiculous and sad. Wasn't it wiser to fund these accidents from the budget reserve? If there were not enough intended resources in the division or economic classification, damages or damages caused by natural disasters or other natural causes, could this rebalance have been arranged? Or, that most of the funds are directed towards the Ministry of Agriculture, in the distribution of subsidies to non-financial corporations. That's why we're suggesting that in Article 5, a sum of 4,524 billion dinars be replaced by 6,024 billion. Also, certain expenditures need to be reduced and more rationally spent on budgets, especially when it comes to contract services, grants to NGOs and funds for buildings and construction facilities. In light of this proposal, the law positively highlights a reduction in foreign interest payments, and as a result of negotiations on more favourable dynamics in the repayment of loans with the World Bank, the London Club and other international organisations. But that can't be good, because it will pay off some other governments and other generations. The question is, how many budgets for 2002 and this rebalancing law can ensure the maintenance of macroeconomic stability, the realization of reforms more talked about than there are, and to provide conditions for the growth of investment, production and employment, as a 2.3% increase in the deficit is expected from the expected huge taxes and burdens. A lower inflation than projected and industrial production growth is projected from two to three percent. It's small, it's got to run the entire business sector, production and export, so it's better for everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24816	The word is by MP Veroljub Arsic, followed by MP Nebojsa Jovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24817	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have no luck in seeing Mr. Minister discuss his budget proposals and his budgets. We're coming up with budget rebalances and I can say that the rebalancing is similar again in the part when it comes to the amendments to the SRS that we endured when we adopted the 2002 budget. We claimed even then, and now, that the budget that is essentially in the deficit cannot have budget reserves. It is now Mr. Minister's proof of the budget's rebalancing, but look where it abolishes the budget reserves: it is not available for the execution of subsidies. These are subsidies for agricultural producers and budget reserves for the execution of social assistance. So those vital beneficiaries of the budget, social programs for workers who have lost their jobs and farmers by altering and supplementing and rebalancing the budget, so to speak, have been deleted. It is also shown that the deficit in the budget is now much higher by around 800 million dinars, which again gives us evidence that its tax policy and the tax policy of the government of the Republic of Serbia are exclusively at the expense of domestic economy and citizens. What increases the budget is to increase funds for southern Serbia and Kosovo, i.e. to increase the amount of money given to Nebojiši Covic. From the current 964 million to the billion and 154 million dinars. I don't think so, even when we discuss the 2002 budget, we'll know where those funds are being spent. We have data that most of these funds are used to abuse Nebojko Covic and the people who surround him. A certain Mr. Sima Spasic receives a salary from Neboja Covic and from these 700,000 dinars, he has received an official car for use with diplomatic plates, and this one with diplomatic plates because he has no driver's license so the police don't stop him and control him, and we have data that he was involved in car accidents where a person has even lost his life. The question is, what is this certain Sima Spasic doing to Mr. Covic? He needs all of Covic's nonsense and bullshit he makes towards the Serbian people and damages the Serbian people, running around the villages in southern Serbia and trying to calm the dissatisfaction of Serbs living there. Another item here in the budget is funded from the budget, which is the Republic Stock Reserve Directorate, which you, gentlemen, have turned into a trading company. The Serbian Government Regulation makes it impossible to introduce oil and oil derivatives freely on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, but it is only possible to buy this from the Republic of Serbia's Stock Reserve Directorate alone, and thus, the same Republic Directorate, the same fuel that is purchased for domestic purposes, registers as exports. In one false way, it shows that this economy is doing something to export. This is less harmful; however, it is harmful that the latter, that all of this is recorded as exports, and that neither excise nor tax is paid, so if you take into account that the refinery price of gasoline is somewhere around 9 dinars, that some small wastes on manipulative costs and trade margins, and that the rest of the state operations up to 50 dinars, calculate how much evasion and embezzlement. Also for diesel fuel, which is 7 dinars, with manipulative costs and trade margins around 11 dinars, and its retail price is 38 dinars, means that 27 dinars per litre steal from the state, people who take fuel from the Republic of the Stock Reserve Directorate and who are close to Zoran Djindjic. There's nothing, absolutely no increased financial discipline for these people, and I think it's a serious problem that this government has to deal with.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24818	The word has a folk MP Nebojsa Jovic, followed by a national MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24819	Dear People's MPs, it is undeniable to be on the basis of Article 29. The budgetary system law, if during the fiscal year there is an increase in total expenditure or expenditure or a reduction in total revenue or income, adopts budget rebalances and that is why today we have on the agenda a draft decision on amending and supplementing the 2002 budget. The budget balance is carried out through changes and additions to the budget, and it is positive that the above-mentioned appropriations will be implemented without increasing the total volume of the budget, i.e. The total expenditures are not increased, but are proposed at a fixed volume of 217.4 billion dinars. You are now proposing to amend these expenditures, and in the adoption of the 2002 budget, through amendments, the MPs of the SPS submitted a few amendments to the National Assembly, which we proposed, in the structure of the total revenue, a completely different distribution of funds under the planned revenues. At the time, there was no understanding of it, although it was a reason for changing the structure of expenditure. First of all, I would like to comment on the structure of the budget's planned revenue for 2002. The receipts are planned at 177.5 billion dinars, and if we look at it analytically, we will find out that the profit tax will be achieved by 91.46%, which tells us that Serbia's economy is not at an enviable level, there is no expected growth, although it is announced in this year that an increase of 2%, in the next year 5%, and if we continue with this growth of the economy only in 25 years we will reach the level of production from 1989, and without the economy there is not only a profit tax, but also a few other incomes. The government says it's not her role to start the economy, but it can't deny that the role of it and the budget is to create an environment for the growth of the economy. And what an environment for growth in the economy can best tell you about the economy and the businesses that work in it. The only growth makes so-called growth. taxation of consumers, which are taxes on the marketing of products and services, as well as excise duties. The decline in income from the linear taxation of citizens' incomes is reported, the main one is the income tax of employees. It is expected to reach 96.57%. It is necessary to create conditions for the change in the structure of these receipts in the structure of the budget, so the question is: if the receipts of taxes on transport and excise duties already exceed the plan, and inflation will be lower than anticipated, 16% instead of 20%, and if changes in the tax system have been made by exempting certain products from paying taxes, whether new products should be released in the law package, including the sales tax that we discussed a few days ago, and thus disbursing citizens of Serbia. As for the achievement of the Republic of Serbia's budget deficit in 2002, it will be 40.7 billion dinars or 2.3 more than the planned budget amount. Yesterday and the day before, we discussed the budget for 2000, but expressed in financial terms, this budget is far higher than the 2000 budget. We plan to use privatisation revenues to cover budget deficits, and they will be allocated to the PIO Fund, local self-governments, AP Vojvodina and the Restitution Fund. It is better for these funds to be invested in the economy, for the start of production, for the creation of new products, and thus there would be a change in the structure of budget adoption. As for the change in the structure of expenditure, I would like to comment on the increase in funding to the Republic Fund of PIO employees of four billion dinars. I'm not against raising those funds, but the reasons for such adoption are, at the very least, very strange. First of all, it is thought of increasing pensioners this year, although it is known that you were saying that you would reduce the number of pensioners or review the pension system. Also, the revenues of the Republic Fund for PIO employees were not at an enviable level. Why? What is the reason that the receipts were not made in the planned amount? I believe that someone is responsible for the delayed process of restructuring the public firm ZTP Belgrade, so an additional 4.1 billion dinars should be allocated in this regard. Another grant to the financial corporation, the 2.6 billion-dollar public company RTS, no justification. The government of the Republic of Serbia is thus trying to prevent the smooth functioning of this public enterprise, as it is not fully provided with a way of financing the moment when the financing by taxis was abolished. Why is it late to apply the Law on Broadcasting or better to say why it only takes effect in 2003? In the end, why can't there be a reduction in resources in 2002, let's say NGOs, not all of them, but above all, I mean the Red Cross. By reducing them, we would compensate for the increase in certain expenditures, such as the increase in funds for the needs of agriculture, the agricultural budget, when it is known that agriculture has a major impact on the growth of social product in our country. This has much greater significance than the work of some NGOs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24820	The word has been made by MP Vojislav Seselj, president of the SRS parliamentary group, first call, 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24821	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, whenever parliament is in a position to discuss budget rebalancing, it must first determine what was wrong with the government's economic policy which led to budget rebalances. What are those reasons? The standard reason - inflation, this time, according to the government, is not the issue. The government claims that instead of the projected inflation of 20%, we had 16%. The government has come to understand that the way she collects, collects taxes, taxis and other taxes allows the state to reduce tax rates for a significant number of products in the context of sales tax, which is positive, which we commended, but now suddenly the second rebalancing issue arises in one financial year. Why did that happen? What the government wants now is to pay extra for what it didn't do well in time. There are some things we could support in that rebalancing. For example, the Republic Fund for PIO four billion dinars. We are in favour of delivering four billion dinars from the budget to the PIO Fund. However, let us consider why this fund is in such a loss. Why does this fund have much less money than before, although it doesn't matter a reduced contribution and why now, again, pensions are three months late. There's been a delay before. When I entered the government, I found myself three and a half months late, but then we found a smart way to make up for three months. When you took over, you had a pension delay of only half a month, only half a month for regular pensions. And now those pensions are three months late again. What happened was that in such a short time, the old big pension delay was restored, despite your decrease in average pensions compared to the pay at the start of 13%, and now it has already reached more than 30% compared to the average salary. That is, therefore, a fundamental problem that would have to be considered. Why aren't you able to pay your pensions normally, neatly? I'll tell you why right away. Because you've already fired 350,000 workers, which you plan to fire another 400,000 workers; which is a significant reduction in the number of employees who pay taxes with their gross salaries and contribute to the state. That's the reason. And the fewer employees we have, the bigger the pension payout problem. On the other hand, we have a huge, massive budget. The budget is more than seven times higher this year than it was in 2000. Of course, I know that something has been introduced into the budget this time that has not been shown through budget revenues before, but again the budget is too large. The state wastes irrationally. Even a much more economically developed country couldn't handle this much budget. You guys pay a lot of money from the budget. This year for NGOs, 800 million dinars, almost a billion. For Nebojsa Covic as well, nearly a billion are scheduled this year. Why? It does not go to Serbs in Kosovo and it does not go to Serbs in southern Serbia. Don't fool the people. It goes to Nebojsa Covic and his business associates, from smuggling, from crime, etc. It'll determine where everything went, because it'll have to do point-by-point to show up.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24822	People's MP, I warn you of the obligation to respect the Rules of Procedure when the evaluations are made... (Vojislav Seselj: Well, I respect the Rules of Procedure. )......................................................................................................... about people who are not present and you are obliged to respect...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24823	Be careful, Nebojsa Covic is not present, and it would have to be, that's his problem. I'm the MP here, he's the Deputy Prime Minister, he's got to be at a session where he's discussing the budget as Deputy Prime Minister, so that it's in his face.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24824	As a MP, you have the right... (Vojislav Seselj: That he flees, which he fears, it is his... )......................................................................................................... to criticise under the Rules of Procedure and Rules...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24825	That's his problem. You cannot prevent the MPs from criticizing the absent members of the government. You absolutely can't do that.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24826	I just remind the MPs of the obligation to respect the Rules of Procedure. You have 30 seconds longer.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24827	Everyone already knows that, for that obligation, don't remind them when I speak, please. Everyone already knows that...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24828	I must, because when you speak, you do not respect the obligation of the Rules of Procedure; 45 seconds longer.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24829	That's not true, but you have the opportunity to cut my power, to cut me out, etc. You can do it. I can't wait to tell you the truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24830	If you make an orderly request to the chairman, it would be my pleasure... (Vojislav Seselj: An orderly request? Written? ) ... for what you're looking for...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24832	Will you include this time for which you are conducting the dialogue with me?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24833	No, I don't. Now you've got 60 seconds to go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24834	I've got 60 seconds left, okay. Thank you. You are still very correct, regardless - sometimes you agree or disagree, Mrs. Komic, but as next president of the National Assembly, I will support Professor Simonovic, I will not. You see, when it comes to the Republic Fund for PIO, which is the basic problem. However, we still have similar problems because of the irrational spending of state money. Our country is in such an economic crisis that we would have to cut budgets every year, to reduce the number of beneficiaries of the budget. Instead, we are increasing the budget year by year and the dinar remains, at least formally, at the same level as the euro, dollar, etc. You see, here we have subsidies to non-financial corporations. As far as the ZTP is concerned, there must probably be additional subsidies. In no European country, railways can finance themselves. It's all over the state's donations. In America alone, there are railways that are able to profit from their business. So I wouldn't be particularly difficult to do, even though there might be a question here, whether that money is being used rationally or not. However, you predict that the EPS is given 300m dinars to restructure businesses, yet the new 300m dinars and not said why. Why should the EPS be given new funds from budget rebalances? Six times today is more expensive than it was in 2000. In real terms six times as expensive. Then where did that money go? You're saying that huge jobs were done on the remont plan, maybe that's all true, but let's see how much work is paid. I know for a fact that very unfavorable contracts have been made with the Poles. It could have been more favourable on the world market. Now let's consider whether this money is being used rationally or not. On the one hand, it collects electricity six times, and on the other hand, the EPS has maintained heavy conditions and war, and sanctions, and six times the price, and has still maintained the compensation of three back-up pensions with electricity stamps. Now the current is six times more expensive, so we have to give the EPS more out of the state budget, actually the rebalance to make, to ask her for new money. This is very, very difficult to explain. There was electricity, and the shortages only started when you came to power. In winter 1999/2000. There were no restrictions at all. The restrictions started in 2000/2001. There was no winter until you came to power, there was no chaos, there was no hellish, unbearable social situation. There weren't many things until you came to power, that's what I know. There was no darkness in Serbia until you came to power. Not even the government of the mob, whoo, what wasn't. Anyway, let me keep this up, if you don't mind. Furthermore, it is projected for the public company RTS 2,600,000 dinars. What's the money for? For anti-Serbian propaganda? RTS under Bojana Lekic is worse as regards anti-Serbian propaganda than Croatian television at the time of Franjo Tudjman. Compare the shows, compare them, and maybe Bojana Lekic is closest to me, but I don't want to tell you any secrets. Compare the nice program, what's being broadcast on that television, what the Serbian citizens are supposed to pay for now. Bojana Lekic did not even endure in her unlimited hatred of not breaking electoral silence, so on Saturday before the elections, her show, where she attacked me as a presidential candidate with the worst words and said, while she was the editor-in-chief of the information-political programme, I can never get on state television. Yes, he's right about the aspect of your ideology... (President: 11 minutes MP. I'll keep going. I speak here in terms of state interest, because your ideology, your system of values is always in huge proportion to state interests. Why should anti-Serbian state television be paid? Why pay? Why give this much money, 2,600,000 dinars? Do you think they'll be better off next year, do you think the people will pay them a subscription? No one in Serbia will pay the subscription. Here you go, to the courts and so on, and I won't go first. Seize, come, seize my television. You let go of your tyranny laws, we won't respect them, we won't. Albanian television is better than RTS, than Serbia's state television, is less anti-Serbian propaganda on Albanian television than on RTS. Much less. That's why it's not supposed to be paid out of the state budget. Furthermore, there are things that we would support, for example for the payment of old foreign savings to increase the amount of money, for social protection, for fighting, for disability, and this -- the Transition Fund, you would have to explain to us what is paid specifically here. Then, which you need a lot more money for the current budget reserve. There is no state in the world that rebalances the budget to increase the current budget reserve. It's the most pointless thing I could see in this project. Look, you're rebalance the budget to increase the current budget reserve. You know, a lot of countries can be charged a lot more by the state than the Budget Law. It's just standing in the account like some kind of liquid reserve. But that's why budget rebalances are being made, that's absolutely pointless. As far as paying off foreign interest is concerned, and that's very problematic, because now we're paying off debts, which we never had to pay off, thanks to Labus and the federal government. Using services and goods; you need a billion dollars, travel costs, and no more Alexander Radovic, I guess these others are not traveling abroad for no reason. Aleksandar Radovic traveled abroad more than a hundred times while being the director of RUJP; is the new director travelling abroad? What's with the travel expenses? Services under contract; by which contracts, who provides you with services, are you the government of experts. Our experts are looking for the services of retired officers of the Intendan profession. Anti-law, against regulations, etc. Specialized services, I'm most interested in, which are your specialized services, whether they're classic or some new-compromised, more modern variants; you need some material, too. These are all the things that testify that this budget rebalancing law is a legal project, very unserious, unprofessional, incompetent, and that this state is throwing money away in terms of the most difficult economic crisis and social misery. Instead of going to budget savings, to further reduce tax rates, to reduce contributions. Why didn't you predict a health care item here? Why didn't you predict for education? It didn't occur to you. Secondly, we saw, when it comes to the budget rebalancing law, that this law is actually not needed by Minister Djelic. Why is his budget rebalancing law when we have evidence that he's going past the Budget Law, purposelessly spending state money? He submits criminal charges because 30 million dinars from the Kolubari Aid Fund have been paid for the flood of the endangered areas of Jagodina, Batocina, Race, and this newspaper, called "Today", which is funded by Western intelligence services, yields data Monday that the budget has been loaned to the EPS union. Which country in the world out of its budget gives a trap to some union and the richest union. Why aren't you a trade union of Belgrade stores or some other poorest union whose members have nothing in the register to pay? What you keep noding your head to stop me. What do you want? You keep giving her signals, I don't know what's wrong with you. Are you distracting the president or me?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24835	Just don't get distracted.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24836	How am I supposed to defocus, that's impossible, but I've got 60 seconds extra. So that's the data that's being presented on Monday in the list of "Today", which is funded by Western intelligence services and their policies are being implemented. Here's who the West now supports. We saw it at the London conference: me, not you, and that's obvious. Just laugh. Many others laughed. Next, let's look at what's listed here. Herese states that 15.5 million dinars were accidentally spent from budgets in the municipalities of Novi Becej, Titell, Zemun, at the Business School in Belgrade, the Medical School in Sombor, etc. Even in Titell, Batocina and Zemun, budget funds are illegally funded political parties. If I had brought this information out, not referring to the "Today" list, you'd say it's political propaganda. The "Today" list is a much sharper and more radical critic of your economic policy and your authority than I was. I don't know if it's spy, you know it better, but it obviously has good data. Looks like they're easier to get into your system than I am. I barely found this how Aleksandar Radovic went abroad a hundred times, and here's what the "Today" list finds for you. I'm gonna give this to Chady, but after the National Assembly session, when this budget rebalancing bill falls. Why is all this important? Because it shows a very sloppy and irresponsible attitude towards state money. Because it shows that you've become so ossious and arrogant, by taking over power, you've begun to throw yourself away with state money as if you're going to spend most of your time in power. You have dug both hills and valleys, as Dusan Mihajlović and the earth and the sky would say, you have plowed. You couldn't find anything to charge those of us who participated in the earlier government, and here you haven't even fallen out of power yet, and we have a huge criminal record material for you and these criminal charges are already being written. Don't worry, you won't answer for anything. Blessed art thou, and thou art not in anything; thou knowest nothing, and thou wilt not answer. You know exactly who's gonna fit in here. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, instead of your remarks that radicals on the basis of their daily earnings are much more money than your parliamentary group, I invite you to spend as many days in the National Assembly building as possible, to study carefully every legislative project, to prepare critical discussions, to prepare amendments, etc., because then a more comprehensive control of the executive authority would be. This is where Parliament's basic function is devised. Instead of Parliament controlling the executive power and its effectiveness being measured in the seriousness and severity of control, this is where Parliament is transformed into a mere transmission. In this House, it only automatically votes what the government brings to him, and you who represent the majority are having a good time with the efforts of the opposition parties, above all the Serbian Radical Party, to point out that this is not how the state is run and that you should stop, that these things should be corrected in time, that state money must be fully securely available and that the budget must be reduced within tax revenues, to reduce tax rates, because there is no longer anyone to pay your tax. This rebalancing law actually shows you that our 2001 prophecy came true, unfortunately. Then we warned you, there are so many tax rates that you would only be able to charge taxes once and you had a huge tax charge in 2001. In 2002, you have no one to charge taxes from, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24837	Before I give the word to the next declared word, I suggest that the National Assembly, in accordance with Article 81. The Rules of Procedure shall decide to set a time-limit in the work after the debate on this agenda has been concluded. I'm putting a motion to vote. So instead of 14 to 15 hours, after we break the budget. The proposal is for a break to be set after the debate on this agenda has been concluded. There are seven other registered speakers and several heads of parliament, who have not used that right. For 105, against 46, with 27 abstentions, there was no vote of 11, a total of 189 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted my proposal. I give the word to Parliamentarian Dragan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24838	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Serbian Unity Party will not vote for this rebalancing because it is not done in a host manner. Our concrete remark is on the third side, where it is apparent that this government has been entrusted by the Serbian people when it comes to domestic loans for a billion and 567 million, and when it comes to foreign loans for 5 billion and 691 million. I don't know if it's going to happen by the end of the year, because it's the practice of the DOS government that in this room, we're voting on another loan, because it's been Mr. Djelic's practice lately, a minister who's not in the O.R. today. On the next side - grants to NGOs, 585,079,500, and the issue of NGOs is raised, with 2,700,000 dinars for NGOs scheduled for 2003. Where that money will go and what NGOs have done for Serbia and the Serb people, it is also known. Also, ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to the Ministry of Agriculture and I don't know who can explain to me what I'm about to ask for a regression for the breeding cattle of 158 million? The promotion of livestock. What does it mean to improve livestock? I don't know if there's a chairman of the Committee on Agriculture and to whom that money goes, but that's always a point in the budget and in the municipalities in Serbia, that they can wash the money this way, and how, I'll explain it later. The agricultural land arrangement is 36 million. What's a farm plot? I don't know if anyone can explain it to me; and on the other hand, they didn't predict subsidies for grain, for sunflower and for all that agricultural producers produce, and it's very low and low price. I'll give you an example: there's now a budget in Jagodina, and then it's planned that without a tender, the Veterinary Station goes to 6 million dinars, and the Veterinary Station should report to the tender and compete in the tender to get a job. However, without a tender, because there is a SPS committee there, there are a dozen other council members and because they will vote for the budget in the Jagodin municipality. It is also foreseen, as one item is foreseen here, says: "For artificial insemination of cows - 3.5 million dinars". There are 3,000 cows in Jagodina, times 600 dinars, that's a million and eight hundred dinars. Where's another million and seven hundred thousand dinars going? They go to those who support DOS in Jagodina and other cities. Furthermore, a large number of agencies are mentioned in this rebalancing. So many agencies and agents there are going to be 30 percent of our budget. The Republic Directorate for Small and Medium Enterprises Development. I don't know how many small and medium-sized enterprises are open in Serbia. Where is Minister Djelic to tell us, and where is the businessman Cedomir Jovanovic to explain to us where these small and medium-sized enterprises are. The businessman, because he's explaining the law to us, is talking about all the laws and gross pay, and he never went to the cash register to get paid until he got into this gym. - Privatisation agency - six billion 259 thousand. It is known who is the minister of the agency and how our factories have been sold to us in Serbia. In Paracino, cement was sold, and now they have invented one catch: that workers can lose their jobs, but they can get compensation from 7,000 to 10,000 euros. After that, they no longer have the right to seek, nor can they be employed anywhere. The question is, what's he gonna do for retirement, if it takes someone five to ten years to retire? It's one tempting catch for our workers, it's a big number when someone collects it, puts it in their pocket and spends a year. What's he gonna do later? - Energy efficiency agency - four billion. We know that the price of electricity has been increased and we know that 60% of Serbian citizens have no place to pay for electricity. It's the agency that helps citizens and will spend four billion and 900 million this year. - Foreign Investment Agency and Export Promotion. What export, ladies and gentlemen? What kind of exports are we talking about? Statistics suggest that smaller exports were in 2002 than in 1998. Even a small difference between 1999 and 2002. We export less to Germany now than we did in 1998. The same agency did not promote exports, but helped import meat into Serbia. A huge amount of meat has been imported. On the other hand, we made competition for agricultural producers and the market price of live cattle fell. That's the agency, which will spend two billion and 30 million dinars. - Ministry of Health - a billion and 173 million. How many agencies I've read so far, and how many others there are, I can't read all of them have more planned amounts for this year than the Ministry of Health has. Minister Djelic, who is not present here, probably does not know that there were 2,000 people, doctors, health workers who were unhappy with their status last night, as he told them the 2003 salary hike would be 10%. It's been five minutes, a man bangs and stays alive, so he says inflation will be 9%. This means that doctors and their health care staff will only increase one percent of the salary in 2003. How come doctors don't go out to the streets to strike? I also don't have anyone to ask, because there's no minister here, so he can't answer me. The Serbian Unity Party will not vote in favour of this bill, neither will it vote in favour of the previous denominations, as this budget has been spent unintendedly. If more of this is accepted, it goes directly to the benefit of Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24839	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic. The next person to be declared is MP Jovan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24840	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the situation and the atmosphere that has been ruling in Serbia's parliament since this morning, when the debate on budget rebalancing began for 2002, is too inconclusive on the side where representatives, MPs of the ruling parties, just as there has been a non-serious explanation of Minister Djelic, who is now not here and who is probably in his style preparing for a full run-off to explain the draft budget for 2003. We see that it is in your interest that this debate ends as soon as possible so that, if you have already reached it with your former and current coalition partners, you can reach a compromise that they will vote the 2003 budget. All that talk that she repeated countless times yesterday just for you pink Pink TV, which was preceded by RTS - if this rebalancing was not adopted, then the 2003 budget, that there would be no social programmes, that there would be no programme to start the economy, are actually a bunch of lies and deception. Based on the 2001 final account, which we talked about yesterday, based on the 2002 rebalancing, which is ahead of us, we see that the government was also too irresponsible, unserious, and above all halvable in the design of this megalomanic budget, whose rebalancing is now proposed for 2002. We warned you in time. On 19 December last year, the SRS parliamentary group submitted several amendments to the 2002 budget proposal, and then we told you that because of the difficult social, economic and overall economic situation in our country, you should target budget funds. Of course, you didn't want to listen to this appeal, you've been acting as arrogantly as you are right now, and we believe that's what's going to happen with the 2003 draft budget. I want here, in the debate on this agenda point, especially to potentiate the issue of agriculture. By amending the 2002 budget, the SRS parliamentary group proposed that agricultural subsidies be increased from projected six billion and 300 million to eight billion dinars. Instead of keeping that amount of funds that you allegedly predicted and falsely promised to agricultural producers, you are unscrupulously going for a full reduction, almost half the figures of the one proposed by the Serbian radicals and subsidies in agriculture, according to the rebalancing you propose, will amount to only four billion and 300 million dinars. What does that mean? That means you've completely given up on agricultural producers. This means that in the next financial year 2003 you will continue to sell out state property, as you have already sold three sugars for three euros each. What has happened, perhaps a little public knowledge, is a case of sugar in Crvenkovski, which, in a tender where only one of your potential partners, a Serbian-Greek firm, appeared, sold the exact opposite of the Privatisation Act, which was adopted so cataractly, for only 2.5m euros. This means that workers, who had an average salary at the sugar company in Crvenka, campaigned, of 25,000 dinars and average salary during the rest of the year of 12,000 dinars, lost their jobs and that the Assembly was forced to file against 16 people, including Agriculture Minister Dragan Vesenov, criminal charges for this illegal sale of one in a number of companies. On the other hand, it is said here that the current budget reserves are being allocated and that the funding of RTS has been allocated. The party's president, Dr Vojislav Seselj, said a lot about this in the election that won the trust of 1,100,000 voters and we believe that this number will be doubled, as it will fall out of the race of your candidate, failed, from the chair. Some citizens can buy from the chair via RTS and Pink, you had Kostunica, the candidate from the chair. When he loses that chair, of course there will be twice as many votes for the party's presidential candidate, Dr. Vojislav Seselj. And about what kind of state television RTS, DOS -- and Minister Djelic knows that this is also a lie, although he keeps saying that we, as well as the vast majority of the people, have labeled exactly -- is sufficiently speaking about a show where after two years Dr. Seselj appeared and everything in his face told your, one of the biggest anti-Serbs, employed on that television, spokeswoman Desimir Chantrak. You see how he went, as the people would say, as barefoot; and as far as we're concerned, we're not only going to harshly criticise so many separations for lying...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24841	Please return to the agenda theme.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24842	Well, the agenda is what you probably didn't get to know, like yesterday when you gave me a warning, so I suggest you, Mrs. Micic...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24843	The agenda is not an analysis of RTS and the head of RTS and your leader's performance.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24844	Yes, it is an analysis, because two billion and 600 million dinars, Mrs Micic, are said by your Minister Bozidar Djelic, set aside for funding from current budget reserves; otherwise, it is precedentd to increase the current budget reserves by 30%. But before you continue to interrupt MPs in such a way, get acquainted with the elements of the proposed agenda. I thank the messengers, who listened, for their attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24845	The word is made by MP Jovan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24846	Dear Mrs Micic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SPS parliamentary group cannot support the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Republic of Serbia's 2002 budget. Let me say with a few notes why we can't support such a bill. I suppose most fellow MPs have noticed that expenditures in the budget, in their structure, change by about 11.2 billion dinars. What is said in the explanation that this does not increase the total expenditure of the budget, is true, but when one government and the finance minister come into the situation to propose another amendment and addition of the Budget Law, or another rebalancing, then objectively ask two questions - is it that we previously planned a budget for 2002 in the Ministry of Finance or has objectively opened up some new hotspots, which should be extinguished by these changes and additions? Of those 11 billion, as far as we have a correction, four billion relate to grants to the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund, and it would be said that it is normal for all MPs to support such a change. But when you look at the explanation, which is said to be due to an increased number of pensioners, and it is not said how many pensioners have been increased in 2002, when it is said to be due to the indexation of earnings and the obligation to align pensions with the growth rate of earnings, and especially when it is said that the planned income on the basis of contributions to pension and disability insurance is not achieved, then a objective question arises - what was the planning and the state of business, and above all, employees, who pay contributions to pension and disability insurance? All of you, ladies and gentlemen, I remind you that in our time we have sharply criticised the changes in the laws that concern gross earnings, and you know that today on gross earnings, which include, apart from net earnings, and a warm meal, and the regress for annual vacations, and transport, and many other items that never in history, as Boza Djelic would say, were not workers' profits, then ask the question - what is the basic reason why no contributions are collected? The reason is to reduce the number of employees who receive profits. So all the projections we had in the 2002 budget, which talked about that we would have a reduction in the number of employees by 60,000 workers in 2002, fell into the water. It is a matter of several hundred thousand workers, and it is completely understandable why contributions to pension and disability insurance are not collected. That's one thing. Secondly, if someone thinks it's normal for the entire current budget reserve to be singled out in 2002 for RTS needs, then the question has to be asked - what is it really about? We here are increasing subsidies for the ZTP by a billion and 400 million, and 300 million for the EPS, 300 million for those social enterprises, which according to the government's programme, have reportedly entered restructuring. You know what restructuring means in these conditions -- firing workers, and there are no dilemmas. Whoever tells me otherwise doesn't know the situation on the ground. Workers, literally, are fired. They pay off the so-called. severances or social benefits, thus forever they are removed from the state's pleas, as they would say, with some intention or at least an explanation that with that money, eventually, they enter into some kind of business. Ladies and gentlemen, which black business, if anyone for 20 years spent, for example. In the password "Viscoza" gets 4,000 marks or 2,000 euros? What business can that money run? In this regard, we must bear in mind that the people who have worked at Viskoza in the past two years have not received a single cent of their earnings, that in determining these fees they had to sign the obligation to waive claims based on their earnings in the last two years. And then, we have a completely paradoxical situation -- 2,000 euros for 20 years of internships or 120,000 dinars, and I've been forced, like a Viskoza worker or some other firm, and there are as many as you want in Serbia, to give up claims of 150,000 or 160,000 dinars. And who's helping who now? What business can be run, and while all of us who worked in such businesses, which are reportedly being restructured, were forced to encourage our family to be in charge, came winter, winter arrived, heating arrived, the obligation to pay tuition, to get textbooks, etc. Or 300 million dinars for Elektroprivreda. I remind you all that here, in this assembly, we have passed a law on the so-called so-called. the counter-guarantees based on the loans we took to electro-priority, to train the electro-priority. And you, gentlemen, who voted to amend the Transport Tax Act, have found that in the last year and a half, at the level of spent electricity, we have to pay a 20% tax. It used to be 10%. Six times the price of electricity was increased, so the household that spent a year and a half thousand dinars per month had a plus 20% tax in its account, and a total of 1,200 dinars. Today, the same household spends six times more, or 6,000 dinars, because the price is increased. When a 20% sales tax is added to that, it turns out that only on the basis of the sales tax is that 1,200 dinars this year. Last year we had consumption together with the 1,200 tax, and this year it's only 1,200 taxes, and now you're talking about us MPs having to support such a proposal, which is why we're going to subsidize the electro-prived economy again, despite these prices. It is not comforting that we are told in reason that this year we will not pay the interest of 1,800,000 to foreign creditors, that we will not pay off 700 million principals, or 2.5 billion in total. Why is it not a comfort - because in the next financial year we will have to pay for it and that is why we will have a budget deficit next year, which is bigger than, say, the entire budget of 2000. In 2002, we have a budget deficit of 40.7 billion dinars, and the entire budget in 2000 was 32 or 33 billion. The planned budget for 2003 was also financed by 46.9 million dinars, and then we wonder where we are going, if we are delaying some obligations, believing that we have achieved great success and mentioning the London Club, with which actual real talks have not yet begun, because it is about creditors who are no longer in the image of the state or some state institutions, but in banks and businesses. Therefore, we cannot expect to gain something favourable from these negotiations by the London Club, but only further increased obligations for citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24847	The word has a folk MP, Gordana Pop-Lazic, and the next reported for the word is MP Dragan Jovanovic. Your party has 11 minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24848	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the second rebalancing process this year is being considered, it has already become common, and we have adopted even one budget as a matter of urgency. I have to say that I'm dissatisfied with the arguments that we get with such important bill proposals, they're made for illiterate people, you're practically describing again what the bill says, and you're not talking about the motives that led to you delivering this proposal to us. These changes and additions to the budget, however, do not increase total revenues, nor total expenditure, they are proposed in a fixed volume, only the structure of expenditure is changed, but it is very important to see how it is changing, because if we consider it, we can only conclude what economic policy and budgetary policy you have led in the previous year. This applies, above all, to the increase in expenditure relating to the transfer of compulsory social insurance organisations and to the Republic Pension and Disability Insurance Fund, which you were obliged to do, given the decision of the Federal Constitutional Court to make up the difference for the pensions paid in 2002, which made you sick by the pensioners. Also, the incomes of the Republic Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund were not as you say at the planned level, and as they will be when there are fewer employees and those who pay in funds, and more and more those who have tried to find salvation after firing in finding any conditions to retire, even if they are in a disability pension. I'm not going to comment on this kind of money being allocated to RTS, and the previous speakers have commented on it, but I would just like to set an example of Kragujevac or Nis, who, by a billion marks from municipal budgets, set out for their city television. If this were to gather at Serbia's level, we would probably come up with a single sum that would show us what a wasteful relationship we have with state money. In the process, untimely, you say - the adoption of a legal framework to determine the source of financing and restructuring of the public company ZTP Belgrade; it is necessary to increase the funds for these subsidies, which is quite logical, given that the economy is not working and that the railways are also suffering. However, it would be quite logical to invest larger funds in the railways, but to revitalise the railway network and railway lines that are paired and grassed. We only have one positive example from Somboro where, thanks to Mr. Cank, the Sombor-Gakovo-Ridjica railway was once again cleared of one exceptional occasion, since the delegation of the grandsons of the former folks came to visit his former estates and then Mr. Canak tried to issue a so-called announcement, just like this in the spirit of the Serbian language, with threatened peasants, who over the track had not worked for many years to make it easier for them to reach their property. Of course, those former folks were comfortable staying at the Junakovic Banje near Apatino, where they were also given a banquet. I would just like to remind the Minister that there is no current reserve in economic science, Mr. Minister, in budgets that have a project deficit. That's what I'm more familiar with in the economy than I am, and it can be read in literature.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24849	The president of the DOS parliamentary group -- the Democratic Party of Serbia, MP Dejan Mihajlov, joined the floor.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24850	Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the chairman, this can hardly be called a rebalance, since the budget is not increasing, but only a certain redistribution within the budget is being carried out. Simply, this was done last year, but we didn't have a chance to discuss rebalancing at the Assembly, and I think that last year, since it was done, we should discuss it and redistribute it this way, not how it was done through a government decision or some other. This is the way we are already going through more transparent public finances to redistribute within the budget itself. What we also need to be able to discuss this rebalancing, which is the realisation of budget funds so far. It's been 11 months, so three quarters have passed, and it's taken us to see how the payments have been made so far, how the budget is filled, at which rate and from which the funds are higher. You can see something from this, though, but mostly about covering the deficits, so we could discuss this adequately. What's just our guess, is that mostly the funds that are in this rebalancing or redistributing within the budget, which are going to switch to certain items, have already been transferred and that this just needs to sharpen what has already been done. That's almost certain, in my opinion, and that's why we want to see before the rebalancing vote what the government has done so far, because the assumption that this is done and you'll see why and at what points. What is the mark of this government's policy and what can be seen, which is that, permanently, year by year, funds are being reduced to farmers. This year, for these items, agriculture was intended for slightly less than 8 billion dinars. The first rebalancing cut to 6.5 billion, and now it's reduced to 4.5 billion. Is that a policy to be run in agriculture or not? We don't think so. There are a lot of things, and it's about agriculture, from various subsidies, everything else, and you, at this point, when we think it's agriculture, that it needs to become the force that's going to start this country, especially if we're talking about Vojvodina, you're reducing the funds for agriculture, and that's totally unacceptable to me. I am particularly surprised by those parties who call themselves and have the sound of the duchy, to care for the duchy peasants, to take care of Vojvodina, to look kindly at the reductions in agricultural donations. Thus directly, they fully marginalise what they do and what they do and that says that political settlement is above any party interest and programme. The funds for agriculture must be there, and they must be more, of course, because if they go into one senseless privatisation, the funds for agriculture must be greater, in order to enable that agriculture, that is what ours, best and fastest can return to us. So we can raise the standard of living and raise the gross social product. When you're already taking funds from agriculture, let's look at where it's increasing. You will see, an item -- the government of the Republic of Serbia's communications bureau that is increasing by 100 per cent. So we're taking from agriculture to give the communications bureau 100 percent of the grant to the communications bureau. It is likely that this lack and that our state is not working should be replaced by the marketing campaigns "Serbia on a good path", or by the ones we have "Praise on Serbia" and everything else. So it's taken from agriculture to give to the communications bureau. Is this the right way to spend the funds that taxpayers single out and is that the right way to finance illegally formed agencies in the government of the Republic of Serbia -- of course not. And if someone thinks they can steal funds from agriculture to make marketing campaigns, which would convince those same farmers that they're doing great and that this government has done a lot for agriculture, they're wrong. The numbers speak very well, and we want to get an additional explanation - why the money is being taken from agriculture. On page 3 of the reasoning, it is seen that the money from agriculture is also given to the ZTP. It is not disputed that the ZTP should receive money and it is not disputed that it is in a difficult situation. We don't question that at all. But it is questionable and we ask that responsibility be determined - why the process of restructuring this company is delayed. It's in the explanation. Who is responsible for this, why the restructuring process is delayed and why the state still has to finance the ZTP. No one, of course, and who's responsible, wants to question the functioning of the ZTP, but we want to know who's responsible because the restructuring process is delayed and why the state still has to allocate huge funds to the ZTP. We can say the same about RTS, the allocation of RTS funds. We have passed the Law on Broadcasting here, the Law on the Public Service of RTS was passed, but who is responsible because no committee was formed under that law that was to be formed, to determine the giving of frequencies and everything else. Why this assembly did not delegate a member to that committee and what was the intention of those who wanted and who blocked the formation of that committee, so that this law would also be used as a means of pressure on the media. For the preparation of electricity for the winter season, of course it needs steam and that our energy system is particularly scattered after the bombing, that it is necessary to settle in order to allow the uninterrupted supply of electricity, but all this says that certain items are not well planned or that someone has recalculated on donations, because we know that most of the donations have just gone to EPS, NIS and large public systems. Then why isn't that well planned? So, there's a lot of things that don't convince us that this redistribution, not rebalancing, is well planned. We want, first of all, to get a report and see if the funds that are being transferred from individual items to this redistribution within the budget have already been transferred from certain items and spent by those users who are here; then this assembly is once again the place where only the decisions that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has already taken, transferred the funds, spent the funds, and now we just need, in order for the form to be satisfied, to move and move here. Of course, disdaining this home is not good that way, and that's why we want to see the written report on this, because somehow the word believes isn't very good. As we have received a donation report, which has certain inaccuracies in matters of numerical or accounting operations, in the final donation account, but we have received a written report, the only ones that we have sought individually by the ministries, so here we want to get a final account, to see the spending of funds for the first three quarters and for these two months, so that we can plead rebalancing. Otherwise, this kind of rebalancing, with so little information, is totally unacceptable, especially since there's no explanation -- why they take money from agriculture and give it for example. The Office for Communications of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which needs those same peasants to convince that they live better, in a country where everything flourishes, that everything goes well. So these are some questions that, unfortunately, we didn't get any answers yesterday, but behind cheap, demagogue stories is trying to hide the essence, which is that there's an unintended spending of funds and that this assembly just has to eliminate it. I'm not talking about the Ministry of Finance, which is really exhaustingly trying to answer all the questions, but there are some things that are beyond their jurisdiction and capabilities; we think there are problems here first and therefore we ask that those who are the most responsible here appear and say that this has happened.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24851	The word is made by MP Dragan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24852	Dear People's MPs, the budget rebalancing was a routine thing, a normal procedure in front of the Assembly until Minister Djelic appeared on March 30th 2001, saying a historic sentence, probably in revolutionary enthusiasm, male, courageous, from this pay phone, could be looked at by the stenograms, "rebalances are past for the Serbian Parliament, that there will be no more rebalancing in this assembly, that budgets will be stable, budgetary positions firmly respected". Some who know something about the budget looked at each other, looked forward to it, thought -- here's luck for Serbia, sent an alien god to make us budgets without rebalancing. My colleague Mucic then threw and I criticized him; he said, "Minister, never say never." He didn't get a warning, but that's his line. He respected the minister in 2001. He was probably a little embarrassed, after those sentences, that he was rebalanced in 2001 and there was no rebalancing in 2001. But that's why there were 10 parliamentary issues -- that two and a half billion from the budget reserves were transferred to the roads, and it's better if he's tightened his heart a little, and he's got a little bit of shame than he's done rebalancing. He'll be asked tomorrow -- how those two and a half billion ended up in a road position. Maybe he's done his thing, too. And fear is a human category. I understand him, if he's afraid to talk about it, it's human, it's happening to all of us. Since he did not rebalance in 2001, he, in order to make up for it, did two rebalancings in 2002, in June and today. And we socialists are not against rebalancing. We understand life's needs, we think life goes on, we need to rebalance. Here you could discuss some of the problem categories -- which is spent on rebalancing and more, where you take the rebalancing. Spending four and a half billion on pensioners is no tragedy, it's no big deal. We can accept that, though I think a little more courage and honesty should be explained. The minister explained the reasons for the rebalancing, but he was a little embarrassed to say that tax contributions were reduced because more than 150,000 workers were less in this year. It's no shame. We're a country in transition. The government is what it is. That's our truth. It's a little rough, it's not on TV, but it's in our cities, it's in our lives. The second item is the railroad; we can accept it as well. I personally accept the third item - TV sets. I'm a little surprised by the cruelness of Lord Radicals. You're too cruel, gentlemen. So do you want to cut out the TV, no TV, no DOS has no TV? Well, you'd better take their life than television, because, like that story about Bash Steel, his life -- his soul was in a bird, and DOS's life is on TV. So we have to give it to them. We shouldn't be so cruel as not to give them two billion and a sixth for television, because the only nice things that have happened in the last two years are happening on Serbian television. We can't deny it to citizens. On TV you can hear that there's increased production, that small and medium-sized enterprises are being opened, that loans are being shared, on TV you can hear nice advice - that electricity is not expensive, that you need to sell the apartment if you can't pay for electricity. You need to give two billion and a sixth because you can hear some educational fables, e.g. A garden of drones and bees, so there's a lot of nice things we can hear on TV. That's why it's supposed to be financed by 2,600,000 in rebalancing television. On TV, you also have small Krcuns, which some from DOS mercy call that, and I do not, who explain to citizens how well they live in Serbia and believe citizens. You know, they don't know how to live and believe...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24853	People's MP, please return to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24854	Do you want me to disagree and give 2,600,000 for television? I'm trying to convince Mr. Radical that it takes 2,600,000 for television. So, I agree with TV. However, what is controversial about this rebalancing. This rebalancing is controversial, where it is taken to give where it is needed. The minister himself said, the budget is like a short blanket, pull it off your feet to cover your head, stay your bare feet. So you have to take somewhere to give it nowhere. It's problematic here now, where we take to give for these needs. Many have quoted, taken from student and student standards, taken from education, taken from the agrarian budget. I'm not some man who's an ordinary farmer, nor was I advocating agriculture, there are bigger specialists, but take 2,600,000 from the agrarian budget to be given for some other purpose, I don't think it's right. I'll give you suggestions where we socialists can support the budget if you do a rebalancing by taking from other positions. For example, tens of billions, and a little bit of Mr. Palm, you take tens of billions for agencies. He read ten agencies, and I'll mention some other agencies; for example, the Culture Development Agency, the Agency for the Development of Local Self-Government, a listening agency, a monitoring agency. I didn't see it for a business escort. I didn't see it fair enough to tell you. Not turned off in sequence. I expect you to set up an agency for the establishment of agencies. So the big reserves stand for funding agencies. There's this thing in the West, I'm not a demagogue, there's this thing in the West, but people cut down the ministries and founded the agencies. We're parallel, and now a beautiful agency is going to be set up, useful, ecology, and we're going to welcome it, but we have to cut down the ministries if we're going to start an agency and fund it. So the big rebalancing reserve was at the agencies. Come on, the agencies can and we can accept and forgive, because you had to sort of thank some people who burned the Assembly, some who burned something else, some who smoked in a whistle, someone has to be the director of some agency, so we can also say hello to you for doing it, here, I understand that, that maybe we did it too. There is one item, and I think that no well-intentioned MP in this assembly, and especially these parties from the last lines, which they have on their behalf Serbian, and New Serbia and DHSS and some others, should not cross that item in the budget, from which we could rebalance the budget. It's funding NGOs. Ladies and gentlemen, give Natasha Kandic, Sonji Biserko, Biljani Vuco 800 million per new budget, 88% of the growth in that position; at all budget positions 30%, and there 88%. I don't think our grandkids will forgive us and history will be written. Look at 15. Helsinki notebook, look what it says. He writes for a scientific event, a meeting at the Academy of Science dedicated to Serbia, writes literally - bal drtina. That's the address. Are we allowed as MPs and those chosen by the people to participate in the financing of these organizations? I understand that they're financed from abroad, and that funding has stopped.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24855	The People's MP Tomislav Nikolic has the word, followed by MP Zoran Angelkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24856	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is a country that, even in the coming years, regardless of the change of government that will soon come, will have the need to rebalance the budget. The basic question arises when is the National Assembly called upon to rebalance the budget? This happens in situations where the budget-planned revenues are missing or when revenues are higher than those planned by the budget, when inflation devalues the money so much that the amount planned as the final, revenue and expenditure of the budget, the balanced budget, becomes meaningless. The government is offering us a budget rebalancing that does not change the final item. That's not rebalancing. It's a card-mixing cover done this year. If you have income and expenditure according to the plan, it means that the government did not spend as approved by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, by division, by positions, according to paragraphs. The government has dared to spend people’s money on its own initiative, past the approval of the National Assembly. Now he's calling his listeners, because this is what he'll vote for only the obedient, to justify what she's been doing all year. I understand that those who belong to the ruling majority will vote for this budget. Since it didn't occur to you that one of you would go out for this pay phone and say, please, submit a report to the government for this year. Convince us of the government's report this year that we must vote for this rebalancing. Maybe it really had to be done. I would understand that the rebalance is because inflation is less than it was intended to be. It is incomprehensible that the state has less inflation than it predicted, and that it remains the same amount of budget. It's incomprehensible and unacceptable. Something's wrong with that, Mr. Minister. Why do banks have so much money and what they're going to do with that money now? You put all the money in a couple of banks, and there's a bunch of banks full of that money, expect you to work for them soon, or they'll surprise you on the street. That's obvious. You're asking us under the rebalancing company for an excuse for what you did outside of the Budget Act. He can't, he can't, because who gave you the right to single out two billion less in the agrarian budget. Who gave you the right to give state television 2,600,000 dinars? Who gave you that right? We don't serve here to cover the decisions you've made, we don't serve to make decisions that you're going to make. This is the relationship between the National Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Everything else is serving the government of the Republic of Serbia. And how many of you are willing to serve this government of the Republic of Serbia? The government of the Republic of Serbia, which has a minus in profit tax revenues. The government of the Republic of Serbia, which has a minus in income tax revenues. What does that tell you, Mr. Minister? Why have incomes and incomes not been achieved? Because there's no income, because there's no production, Mr. Minister, because there's no new value. You admitted that when you said that the growth of the gross domestic product of 4% was determined by the dominant growth in the service sector. What is the government in the world that boasts about growth in the service sector? Modern government? Yeah, it's a U.S. government where 50 other states produce for it to make profits. This government has no other country in the world in which black people produce it. This government of the Republic of Serbia has us Serbian blacks that we produce to generate some income. Your income is taxes, taxes, taxes and taxes only. I don't know who you're gonna be taxing next year. This government of the Republic of Serbia doesn't deserve to appear in front of the National Assembly with a proposal like this, and that's why it's not here. For God's sake, the government will come after the debate on this point. This point is more important than the 2003 budget, because if this government remains in 2003, and you are trading with that remainder, somewhere in December of next year, you will have a budget rebalance for 2003. Maybe even if the final figures were the same and you re-authorized the government with all the gibberish she's been doing. Now I'm asking you something else. Will the vote on this rebalancing save you from responsibility in two years? You have opened Pandora's box, you have introduced the principle that nothing that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has brought, at a time when you did not have a majority in the National Assembly, and if you are to vote in the voting day, you have the majority to vote for this budget rebalancing for 2002, I suppose you will have, you will not have that majority in 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, in 2006, God will give. Shall we then bring you some new budgetary inspection here, that we do not respect the decision of the National Assembly and say - Minister Djelic is a criminal, because he has put us in a position to rebalance a budget in which there is no touching item of total expenditure and total income, something that is unrecorded in the world. The government is justly set aside funds for Radio TV by saying they are not in time to pass laws. Whether the law stood because of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia or because of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The entry into force of the law will be the day it was predicted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Where does the Government of the Republic of Serbia seek justification because of the cramping of state television? Why don't you come out here bravely for a pay phone, you bulldozers, who took over Radio TV with machine guns? Why don't you say here that you promised Serbian citizens that they wouldn't pay a subscription to Serbian Radio Television? Why don't you ministers come out here now and say yes, you're not paying on the bridge, but you're paying on a keg, and that's why you're getting a bigger sales tax by one or two percent, because we're no longer showing you a subscription to television, but we're taking it directly from your budget without the approval of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and retroactively at the end of the year we're going to ask for the approval of the National Assembly. This is not a farce, this is the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. No Serbian Government deserves that the National Assembly retroactively approves of the moves it has made, but ministers when you want to transfer money to someone, come here to the National Assembly, so say, tomorrow we should transfer the money you did not approve of the Budget Act, asking you to agree to transfer that money. It's a finance minister who won't have criminal charges when he's no longer a finance minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24857	The word has a folk MP Zoran Angelkovic, followed by MP Dragan Todorovic, and he is the last registered speaker. The time available for the SPS parliamentary group is 11 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24858	Ladies and gentlemen, today we have a second budget rebalance for 2002. Of course, the budget is always a good plan for the Serbian government on revenue and expenditure, which is what is planned next year and of course by the next point we will probably have, when we talk about the 2003 budget, the same belief that what was proposed for the 2003 budget is well planned, that these are positions that will be effective, which will be done in 2003, that these are the revenues and expenditures that will be made in 2003. Of course, we had such convictions when it comes to this budget and when the 2002 budget was adopted. The government, of course, when making two budget rebalances in one year, admits in fact that it did not plan well, whether revenue or expenditure, whether within those positions an appropriate position, but in fact admits that it did not plan those positions and items well within the planned budget. Okay, that is not disputed, the government has the right to acknowledge this, to propose to MPs that they make the appropriate distribution within the framework of the positions or to change the revenues and expenditures planned in the Republic's budget. But this is about something else. It's not good when budget rebalancing is done to verify spent money. It is not good when this budget rebalance serves to verify existing decisions or spent money, which the government of the Republic of Serbia has implemented, and for this it had no basis in the Republika Srpska budget, which the assembly adopted. That's what this is about, because otherwise, the budget rebalance for 2002 would be December 10th, except because money was spent without effective positions, which were foreseen by the 2002 budget. Now the government needs the fact or the finance ministry, to be even more precise, to legalise the Assembly on these spent money in December 2002. That's the problem with this budget rebalance, and it's not a problem that the budget rebalance itself is being carried out. The second thing is, of course, the debate itself about what's good and what's not when it comes to budget rebalancing. The fact is, of course, that this budget has 217 billion and that means no less, no more than seven times more than in 2000, but it is not seven times the burden of Serbian taxpayers. It is at least ten to twelve times the tax burden of Serbian citizens because it is less than half a million workers, because less than half a million of those who have made incomes from the Serbian population's income tax to fill the budget. If there are fewer citizens of Serbia who pay taxes, if there are fewer people who work, so they spend out of their salaries for adequate contributions, etc., then it is logical that those who are left to pay more. That means not seven times more, but ten, twelve times more to fill these 217 billion in terms of income compared to 34 billion in 2000, and that's what I think it's necessary to know when we're talking about the rebalancing of this budget that's in front of us today. What else is important in these positions? Most of the stuff is solved, but that structure, which we can't without mentioning or not being able to skip any discussion, is that redistribution from the agrarian budget. It's not just where that money went from the agricultural budget, but how it's possible that it doesn't need an agrarian budget of 2 billion and 600 million dinars, as planned at the beginning of the year. What does that mean? Do they not need donations to those who produced raspberries or blackberries, and we know what demonstrations this year were, road closures and so on because of the price of raspberries and blackberries, because four times the raspberries and blackberries were cheaper than in 2000. Does this mean they don't need donations to those who sell potatoes, and potatoes are cheaper in 2002 than in 2001 or 2000. Does this mean that they don't need donations to producers of corn or anyone else, does this mean that they don't need those agricultural producers in Serbia, that agriculture is at such a level that they don't need subsidies and that they don't need them from the agricultural budget to help. And now, because they don't need it, because it's a great situation in agriculture, then we take that money and put it in a different position. That's the point. If other positions were to be upgraded then an additional revenue should be provided, not from the agrarian budget, to take 2 billion and 600 million and put into some other positions. This was about whether it was good to give RTS 2 billion and 600 million. Of course, that's where some workers work. Does this country need state television? I should, but we're in favour of state television, not a broadcasting organization that's going to finance itself. We stood up and had a tax in our time. You said -- we don't want a tax, because it's a burden on Serbian citizens and they can't pay RTS. Shouldn't the citizens of Serbia pay RTS? Well, don't pay RTS. Now they're not paying directly over the tax but indirectly through the budget. It's not a neck. It's a neck. So they pay 2 billion and 600 million in fact from the Republic of Serbia's budget, directly from the current budget reserve. It says here, of course, that the government did so with its own decision and resolved to spend the current budget reserve. Interestingly, I explained it yesterday. How can the government, by its decision, spend the current budget reserves, and the province government cannot? How about the province government when it makes a decision to spend its current budget reserves on newly formed television in Albanian and Serbian; so I have to, he doesn't listen, he doesn't care. He's got a criminal record, and when you make the decision, he can. Sure, sure, just do you need it? Secondly, if RTS is already financed from the state budget, then it is not the private ownership of the DOS or the government of Serbia, then it is the property of all Serbian citizens, which means all its representatives who are in this parliament, that means all political parties. Let me see where those political parties are on DOS TV. They're gone. How, then, should Serbian citizens who have not voted for DOS watch that TV? Serbian citizens do not need RTS in Belgrade. They have 20 channels. They need it somewhere inside, but they didn't vote for this government in the interior. Not only should this government be present on that television, if we are funding it from the budget. Then the board of directors should also form a proportionate number of MPs in this republic's parliament, consistent with the political mood of Serbian citizens, and not some independent boards of directors manage television, and we, as MPs, citizens of Serbia who have different political confidence, are paying for that television. That's what this is about. So these things have to be broken down and broken down. Now, about the source of the income. Please find out, since we have one problem -- since this assembly, the parliamentary issues have been lifted. Since the government has abolished parliamentary issues, then MPs, and especially me from the opposition, we need to use a debate about some law to ask a question. Of course, nothing out of the agenda. Where it is in revenue, whether accidentally in sales tax, tax revenue collected at 442.978 billion or 5% of the tax collected between Serbia and Kosovo and the Metohija at the border is treated. Is that treated like income? Then, where the revenue of 2.8 billion dinars is from a service tax by the NBJ or the PDO, as the PDO had 14 billion incomes based on services to businesses and institutions that pay. It's known, and it's not controversial. So 20% of that is tax and that's 2.8 billion. Are those 2.8 billion in budget revenue? Did Dinkic happen to keep it from the National Bank? That doesn't have a right. If he did, did he file a criminal charges for not paying that $2.8 billion tax or was it released by someone and does someone have the right to release him and who released him, the government or someone individually? Did 2.8 billion lie here in the Republic of Serbia's budget. The third source of income is the 100 billion dinars that the Serbian government has placed at the expense of the NBJ as a deposit, interest on those money. Did NBJ pay interest on that 100 billion, what is that interest and where it is included in the total income, and if it isn't, why not? I know, while Mr. Vlatkovic was the previous governor, until these guns and poles entered the National Bank, that NBJ and Mr. Vlatkovic were paying interest on a deposit held by the Serbian government at the NBJ. I think it's important that we know these questions and whether this revenue was included in this 2002 budget, and particularly whether G-17 of those billions and 544 million, paid by the Serbian government for the protocol signed by G-17 with bakers, and whether the stock reserves gave it to private bakers, whether G-17 plus returned that billion 544 million and where that income was included here. If it's not included, then we actually had extra income over expenses, which is not bad, which is good, but at least we know that this income is included here.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24859	The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic. The time available for the SPS parliamentary group is one minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24860	Since I only have a minute, I have to speak very quickly. Mr. Djelic, in 21.12.2001, you said that by joining the international community, you would include Joseph Stiglic, as one of your experts in the transition process and the formation of a new economic system. As you shape that economic system, the workers of the May 1st are best known from yesterday on strike. We all know there's no ladowood under the needle, but "May 1st" doesn't have any pay money, he's over-indebted, he's sold out the facilities, and now the strikers think he's the director or some unionist who's been good to everyone. Unfortunately, the cause of such a situation is not found in the Pyrot. The cause of such a situation is in Belgrade. On the other hand, since I don't have time to tell you the whole story, how you took the skin off all the citizens on the back, they know the 400 citizens who were protesting yesterday 10 kilometers from Pirot, because they paid customs for the goods, so after 10 kilometers you stopped them and took the goods, so I guess you made them pay customs again. The third thing is that there are already some notices in Belgrade about the obligation to report the TV apparatus's assets, signed by Mr. Churchenjakov, with the obligation to pay a TV subscription of 210 dinars. Do you know about that? Which is why we're paying back the tax or the TV subscription now, and here we're talking about giving RTS extra money? Did this RTS meet the criteria of objective and impartial information and communication, we could also see in the presentation of Presidential candidate Vojislav Seselj, when a truly objective and impartial journalist showed how this objective and independent journalism should look, etc. Since I'm a little out of time, thank you for your tolerance, and I'm sorry for talking a little bit longer.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24861	This exhausted the list of registered speakers. Before the initial search is concluded, I ask if the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want the word. The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic, president of the SPS parliamentary group. Time is available for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24862	Dearly respected presidency, fellow MPs, Mr Minister, reviewing the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Republic of Serbia's 2002 budget would have been completely if the MPs of the Serbian Parliament had received a report on the budget spent by the Republic of Serbia for the period January-October or November of this year, which I found out the government had adopted, but we didn't get it. It could then be seen that funds were spent from the budget, who spent more money than the Assembly had determined and why, because they certainly do. Since there is no such report, it remains for me to conclude on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group on the proposed law: that this law, in fact, confirms what the Government of the Republic of Serbia must not publicly say that the situation in Serbia's economy is very bad; that the envisaged projections of budget revenues cannot be achieved; that the redistribution of funds must be carried out; by the way, two or three necessary jobs are completed for the Government, i.e. Strengthen propaganda, and present it all to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia as a minor one technical thing, as if everything is in the best order. The Serbian government itself acknowledges on page 7 of this bill that there has been a reduction in contributions based on a reduction in the number of employees, according to data for the first nine months. The government of the Republic of Serbia does not mention how many employees there are in the Republic of Serbia, but different scientific institutions dealing with the analysis of economic movements find that the number has almost reached a million. The Serbian government exclusively deals with small money privatisation, in some cases companies are sold for incredibly small money. No resuscitation of production. Production stagnates both in agriculture and in construction. There is no faster creation of new businesses, no more jobs. At the unemployment rate, Serbia is the first in Europe. The government is applying a policy of raw liberalism. The market will clean up all domestic producers, because the state is not protecting them at all. The companies will be sold out, and the workers will be sold out, and we will see how it is for them, because most of them are fired. This increase in the number of unemployed means a new blow to the budget and social security funds. That is why part of the budget is being transferred and increased to social security organisations and the Pension-Inhabitation Fund. As far as the other items of the budget are concerned, it is clear that the sum of four billion dinars for bank restructuring is intended to pay compensation for several thousand employees, who have lost their jobs due to the liquidation of the four largest banks in Serbia. From this bill, from the text we have received, there is a vague position of 371 in the department of economic relations with abroad, marked "Transfers of Other Levels of Government", with a sum of two billion dinars. What levels of government are it in Serbia, or is it something else? I think the answer is necessary anyway. There are more of these positions and questions, anyway, but I'd like to draw your attention to just two more. First, the budget rebalancing envisions significant funds, with 2.6 billion dinars for the RTS Public Enterprise, and this in itself would not have been strange, if the government of the Republic of Serbia itself had not brought the same public enterprise to a practical stage of decomposition. In early 2001, the government, not taking care of the fate of RTS at all, asked the Assembly to declare itself, and the assembly's majority did so, to abolish the source of RTS funding. Remember, then, what was said by the representatives of the government of the Republic of Serbia, in order to justify the abolition of the source of funding for RTS. Essentially, DOS, and of course, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, gave priority to their election promise against the fate of RTS, and of course, of all employees. The government did not refer to the fact that we Socialists then warned, that RTS must have its sources of funding, that it is a national television that has great importance, that it does not deserve such a fate at all, etc., but our demands did not help at that time. RTS was then intended to play the role of a public enterprise that should fail or, as the government likes to say popularly, to transform itself. As the government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the general majority, have found that marketing is never enough, and that private television and print media are not enough to tell Serbian citizens what they want, to convince themselves that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is doing, because all relevant indicators are not only in the economy of Serbia, but also in other areas of life negatively, and because they cannot objectively justify the poor results of government work, according to RTS, another strategy has been applied - the direct deployment of all RTS programmes in the role of the government of Serbia. The honour of exceptions, but on all programmes, besides, of course, mandatory music and sports, is regularly attended by the Prime Minister and the resolution ministers, in order to further explain reality to Serbian citizens. Like, it's not true what's happening to you, it's what the government of the Republic of Serbia tells you it is. The RTS thus became a service of the government of the Republic of Serbia from the declared service of citizens. The latest pearl I heard the other day, that a systematization of new jobs in RTS was done, and believe it or not, for the leading positions in RTS, for the editors of the information program, their deputies, is not foreseen at all high or higher professional preparation, as a necessary condition. It is therefore that through the systematization of jobs, only the existing situation is legalised, or even more strengthened, the position of people working directly in government functions. Secondly, the same function has a second item in the rebalancing of the Republic of Serbia's 2002 budget, which is an increase in funds for NGOs. Of course, I do not mean social, disability, socio-humanities, professional and other organisations and associations of citizens, who have their very specific role in society and importance for the citizens of Serbia, but for those of classical so-called. NGOs, which of course are not, because they actively co-operate with the government of the Republic of Serbia and for which additional funds are now being allocated. As they played their part and helped DOS at a time when DOS was an opposition, NGOs are now very active, logistical support to the government of the Republic of Serbia in the exercise of power. That is why the Government of the Republic of Serbia and assumes the obligations of the G-17 Group, nominates the delivery of flour to bakers, but also generously forgives the debt of 50 million marks in the previous year. The item of funds for NGOs is in the division of several ministries, which speaks for itself. The old debts and current assistance in the exercise and preservation of government should be charged in money, and this is exactly what the budget rebalance is doing. Therefore, it should not be surprised when NGOs via RTS, but also other media, before the state's representative, but often on their behalf, provide explanations of current events, propose laws on which the Assembly later declares itself, give initiatives, which then the state takes over, etc.; become parallel authorities, take that role. The separation of money, such as through budget rebalancing for 2002, is only a confirmation of the symbiosis that exists between the government of the Republic of Serbia and organisations that call themselves non-governmental and work for the government of Serbia. Those who do not work for the government of the Republic of Serbia are always removed from the budget. Therefore, respected fellow MPs, the SPS parliamentary group believes that this second budget rebalancing of the Republic of Serbia for 2002 is not good, that it is not in the role of the economic development of Serbia, especially as the funds are being transferred from other positions, which are very necessary, such as the agrarian budget, and it primarily corresponds to the needs of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and therefore we cannot support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24863	Since there are no more registered speakers, I hereby conclude the search in principle and, under Article 136(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Parliamentarians Ljubomir Mucic, Radojko Petric, Nebojsa Jovic and Marko Culibrk submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? The word has the People's MP Ljubomir Mucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24864	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Minister, we have submitted an amendment to Article 2 of the proposed budget rebalancing, and I can say that sometimes it is a good thing that the vote on this law and on these amendments will be later, given that the essence of this amendment and the consequence of the amendments is submitted to Article 7 which is, in fact, the essence of the changes in individual sections and individual positions, in particular, part of the budget. Since this is the last amendment, that is, the fourth one that we have submitted to the amendments and additions of this law, I hope you will understand the essence of the whole process, given that only global figures, which are due to the proposed changes in the specific part of the budget for certain positions, are changed in fact. I would also like to say on this occasion that the essence of the proposed amendment is to look at the reduction of certain positions and certain expenditures, grouped in contracts and grants to NGOs. Our proposal is that on this side of this material cost and expenditure, on which there has been a lot of objections here, these funds should be reduced and allocated to other humanitarian expenditures, which under these conditions will be met by the budget and the inability to provide revenue in the budget more rationally and deployed. We think that only by rationalising spending in the budget, through some types of reduction in material costs, then the cost of travel, material, profit or profit, through expenditures of budgets and rationalisation of these expenditures, should the funds be provided to meet the most necessary needs. On the other hand, the proposal is to implement only the redistribution of global resources in the context of subsidies, with the item in Article 2 of the proposed budget being redistributed from television to return funds for the agrarian budget. I think that services per contract, and also services under contracts for various special jobs in this budget are extremely high, given that some special services in this budget are a billion and 328 million, of which only 370 million are specialized services for the Privatisation Agency. I think it's really well-rewarded for those who sell out our former social enterprises. It's likely that the next year's revenues won't be left behind on that basis. Furthermore, there is no need for me to explain these global figures, only that, indeed, through this genealogy of amendments to Article 2, to Article 4 and to Article 7 of the specific part of the budget, I am saying that the parliamentary group of the SPS did not propose an amendment, as it was thought, which increased the total budget resources and the total budget volume, but tried to implement, redistribute, redistribute or transfer funds for some other purposes; I think that was the government's policy in this budget, that in the context of redistribution of funds, in the context of the distribution of individual purposes, subsistence of material expenditure and expenditure already spent. For this reason, I urge you to accept, indeed, all four proposed amendments in the day that is set to vote. Thank you. I won't use the second part, five minutes as a representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24865	I ask the proponent of the act, does the Government have a position on this proposed amendment, whether or not the Government has accepted it? (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: I would ask that we first discuss those who have the right to the amendment to get the word. ) No matter how much the objection relates to being thrown out of the O.R., I owe the deputy president of the parliamentary group an answer. In accordance with Article 137. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall be as follows: the applicant of the amendment, the authorised representative of the applicants of the amendments, the draft act, the rapporteur of the committee, the president or representative of the parliamentary group and the authorised representative of the Government, if the Government is not the proposing. Since the exhibition was held by the amendment applicant, I asked on behalf of the act's promoter, the minister whether he had an opinion on whether the government had accepted it. The government didn't accept. Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group, MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24866	Mrs. Comic, you don't need to ask the minister at all because he has the right to get a word whenever he asks for it and whenever the minister feels the need to discuss it, to show up at a pay phone, he does it, and sometimes by jumping the bench, and sometimes as a man goes through a row between the benches. Anyway, according to the Rules of Procedure that you invented, only the minister has the right to receive a word whenever requested by an authorised proposing representative, and in this case it is the Government. So, in order for the minister to make clear whether the amendment will accept or not, he should hear all the arguments that are in favor of the amendment or against the amendment, to put the assessment on the scale, and if you already have a report from the Government that the amendment is not accepted, what will the question be addressed to you by the Minister, does he accept the amendment? He can't accept it today if the government refuses to accept the amendment. But I would only talk a little bit in principle about Article 2 which reflects the fate of the Minister if we don't pass this law today. If we do not vote today or in voting day, and we should not vote it out, so as not to be humiliated by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the minister would have the opportunity to contact us from Zabela. Now, that's how it is, the minister was working against the law, he approved spending the funds against the law, you can now cover it because it's cold, but it's supposed to spread according to the pigeon that's been assigned to him by the Budget Act for this year. Here's the amendment regarding NGOs. I understand that the Minister of Demagogue from this speaker will send a message to both MPs and citizens and say, yes, I have approved transfers to compulsory social security organisations at a much higher amount than it has given me the budget of the Republic of Serbia; I have approved social security benefits from the budget in a much higher amount than I was granted by the budget of the Republic of Serbia. So we would sit here and say -- yes, indeed, it was supposed to pay out pensions, it was meant for workers who were left out of work, the minister had a fire, it was sold out for one euro, now the government of the Republic of Serbia has to make up for the workers to the value of the candy. But how come the Minister's right to the NGOs instead of the planned 337 million to 441 million; how come the Finance Minister has the right to 104 million dinars of money from the budget, without approval, to NGOs? Whom it was invested by the minister when the people's money, the people's sweat, gave the hard-gathered harasser to NGOs, beyond the amount he had the right to. Where is the list of these NGOs here now, to know exactly which of the NGOs is the fat mustache, so that in the evening on state television, they can commend the government for its work. It would be really interesting to see, with the contracts the government has with NGOs, where these funds go; they do not appear here as donations to NGOs, but they are funds under contract. So we experienced NGOs controlling customs, NGOs controlling student homes, working at the university, just to give more money to NGOs, and the National Assembly has no idea. Yesterday, an MP from another ruling structure warned you that you are financing enemies of Serbia. I dare say the enemies of Serbia, but you finance the enemies of the Serbian state that way whenever you need a statement against Serbia, you hire a member of an NGO. These are not NGOs, they are anti-Serbian organisations, organisations against the state of Serbia. They're serving you right now, Minister, but I don't want to support them from tax on my salary, they won't do it by any of the citizens of Serbia because they don't know what the function of the NGO is. They write you bill proposals, you fund those books, you put money in their left pocket from their budget, it puts America in their right hand, you read Tim Marshall's book about how much money they get, the money's spinning all over the place, and you'd be doing it before the end of 2002 if retroactively, if I didn't say, posthumously approve. It's not going to be possible; it's going to be the minister who financed someone's order, and he's got to say by whose authority he'll answer. If this minister is responsible for minor acts, you will prevent the future minister from responsible for much greater acts and for the insufferable defence of yesterday, the story that RUJP is not under the finance ministry. (President: Six minutes, MP. ) There, the minister referred us to the fact that Aleksandar Radovic is directly responsible to the Prime Minister, which is true and thus yesterday, the finance minister accused Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic of illegally spending funds in the Republic Public Revenue Administration, because if not controlled by the finance minister, the Prime Minister had to.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24867	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Živanko Radovančev, Miomir Ilic, Hranislav Peric and Golub Rajic. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicant for the amendment? Here is the word of the People's Messenger Miomir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24868	Dear People's MPs, on behalf of the SPS, I have submitted an amendment to the member mentioned for the reasons we believe that our basic national treasure, primarily the country, or agriculture and water, is a water industry, is something we should guard; not to degrade, but to improve. In the 2002 draft budget rebalancing law, in the 10th division of agriculture and water industry, it is not an increase but a reduction, just as it should not be, by more than two billion dinars. For this reason we would never support it, but you will probably refuse it; therefore, voters, especially from the village, will respect it and in the next elections will surely appreciate it, that the SPS has always been for agriculture and the village, and these failures will punish you in the upcoming elections. For reasons, I'll give you a few examples. The criticised budget for 2000 was 6%, 3.3%, and 3.18% in 2002. You are a well-known reduction in what it leads to, and especially this part where agriculture represents and what a significant economic branch. Since our president of the parliamentary group said that in the budget rebalancing we did not raise the budget to more than redistribution, as you suggested, in the total amount of 176 billion, in that part the proposer, perhaps the government, Mr. Minister, was keeping an account, adding where it is significant, under parol -- to someone to take away and to others to add. If we take away this most important area, which is agriculture and water economy, then there's no basis for it. Two and a half billion more to co-finance RTS, which you criticised years ago for this way of funding, and now let a flyer in Serbia, which suggests that the next months will be financed in this way, will not work for you either. To be abolished by subsidized financial corporations, such as the milk premium is less than 27% compared to what you have proposed to the voted budget law for 2000, then the purchase of wheat by 27%, and in the water economy, destroying organisations from Serbia and those organisations that maintain protection water-based systems by less than 37% compared to budget balances adopted for 2002, is extremely irresponsible and irresponsible. For this reason, I think it is quite appropriate that the proposal that we made and that the budget in this section is replaced by 10, as foreseen, in the amendment and supplement law, instead of four billion twenty-five million dinars of 6,024,000 dinars, as part of the subsidy to non-financial corporations, because it is quite realistic and extremely justified. For this reason, I believe that you will respect this extremely correct proposal and accept our amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24869	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? Please, the word is by MP Ljubomir Mucic, authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group, and then by MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24870	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on this amendment, I would ask a number of questions about the Minister of Agriculture; however, this amendment really refers to something that was essential at the beginning of the 2002 budget, given that the draft budget amounted to 6,300,000, in the rebalancing of June 6,690,000,000, and in the budget rebalance at the end of this year, the appropriations for the agricultural budget amounted to 4,524,000 or about 2.5 billion less. Also, let me just say for a moment that, in line with this amendment, given the draft budget for 2003, this member of the law in the 2003 proposal was accepted, and that member was included together with the other sections, so that even most Members would not have been noticeable if it had not been explicitly written in Article 5 of the Law. The essence of this amendment, this member and the reduction of funds, we said, and it's been talked about a lot; I think the most controversy in this whole debate has caused a reduction in the appropriations for the agricultural budget. And where do those funds go? These funds are reduced to the purchase of wheat by 110 million, then milk premiums by 700 million and animal health. I don't think it really made any sense to cut and touch at this point, given that in the previous year 2001 in the final budget account, we had a non-intentional budget for the previous year for the purchase of wheat, so this agrarian budget is also the basis for the following year. And for the next year, I don't think there was any reason in this part to cut those funds that were intended for the subvenices in agriculture, especially for milk and wheat. I also think that in this part, the investment funds that are intended for the construction of water factories, we don't have a report on whether they've been increased or reduced, or within the framework of the ministry that is expressed primarily through the Water Directorate. To that end, I think that, together with the other amendments, which are in particular part of the budget, this amendment, which is an integral part of the specific part of the budget and which is proposed by the SAA, should be considered, otherwise the only one who has proposed amendments to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24871	The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic. He doesn't want to. ) The accuracy works, on the basis of Article 84(2). The SPS is not the only applicant for the amendment, but also the Committee on Finance and People's MP Velimir Simonovic, so they would be informed. If there are no more entries for a word per Article 5, we move on to Article 6. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ljubomir Mucic, Radojko Petrovic, Jovan Todorovic, Dusan Cvetkovic, Zivanko Radovančev and Joca Arsic. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment. Do any of the applicants of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Jovan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24872	Mrs. Comic, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, just to say that the Finance Committee is not a political party, so it cannot be in equal treatment with the SPS as a parliamentary group or some other groups that have possibly submitted amendments. Along with my fellow SPS MPs, I have submitted two amendments. One on Article 6, and one on Article 7, which I will also explain, but both are interlinked and reflect the essence of the SPS's opinion on the basic principles on which the 2002 budget rebalancing story was based. You know, we can be resented, just like we could to the Ministry or anyone else, why this position isn't as much or as much, etc. The bottom line is that we're actually due to bad planning and the new hotspots that are open, we've come to rebalancing. When we had already implemented it, then we came to, according to us, unquality solutions in the draft amending and supplementing the 2002 Budget Law. These amendments try to fix the situation, or suggest something that is reasonable. To be honest, we do not expect it to be accepted, because it is the fate of all the amendments submitted by the SPS in this House. The truth is, I have to say that the ministry, as a rule, six months after some of our amendments, remembers to read these amendments and include them in their own proposals. The example works, I'll tell you next, although the minister rarely listens to this when I say it, maybe his story doesn't match or his colleague advocates it, but please, he had the need these days to say that something in this parliament is happening for the first time in Serbian history, etc. Let me remind you that for the first time in the history of Serbian finances, for example, the cost of business travel was greater than the funds allocated to the Development Fund. Now the minister, based on the amendments that we have made in time, remembered to say, it's really a lot to spend our official travels on 1,300,000, we're going to take that down to 900 million. When he deployed those 400 million, he did not deploy them to the Development Fund, but deployed them into other expenditures under budget rebalancing, for example for television and for some other subsidies. They don't have socialists against television. When we were telling you, don't take away the fee on the number from which you objectively finance television, you said, you socialists ruined all that story and we want to end it. You didn't tell us you'd spend your entire current budget reserve on television. Of course, the minister can tell me, you know, Mr. Todorovic, money doesn't have eyes. I know money doesn't have eyes and they go where they're going. The question, for example, is what is for Serbian people or for Serbian citizens, TV worth 2,600,000, while taking 1.500,000 from the Roads Directorate. As if the condition of the roads in Serbia is such that there is no need to invest anything in the travel industry. We've taken away the Weather Roads Directorate, where we're going to have very big problems because of weather, rain, frost, etc. and all of us, including the MPs, will come to this assembly through the impact holes, break our cars, and reduce the funds of the 1,500,000 Road Directorate and to give to the greatest extent for television, for railways, etc. When we told you, don't take people off taxes on railways, I remind you, we had a general tax rate of 17% plus 3% of the special rail tax, you say, these are the remains of the past time, it can't be that, these are special bills, sub-accounts, etc. What else is this? There were few railway subsidies, we have to give 1,400,000 extra to the railways, and in fact we acknowledge the truth that the railways in this time and this society cannot be financed in any other way than how the Socialists in the previous government perceived it. It's a later confession, but it's a good thing you've admitted it ever before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24873	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? Yeah. Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24874	I have now asked the Rules of Procedure for the Management Board to answer me whether a breach of the Rules of Procedure was committed. I ask you to include the decisions of the committee on the submission of complaints about your violations of the Rules of Procedure in the minutes of the National Assembly, since we have repeatedly objected that whoever runs the meeting of the National Assembly is hurting the Rules of Procedure. We never got a response from the board whether the Rules of Procedure really hurt or not. You never entered in the record when an MP objected to the injured Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You have now injured the Rules of Procedure by following the advice of a service that does not read well enough Rules of Procedure, which you have placed here in the debate. You're bothering the Members of the People with some amendments you're saying has been submitted by the Finance Committee. Please tell me, on the basis of which member of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the Financial Committee is authorised to submit amendments to the draft law. On the basis of which member of the Rules of Procedure has any committee been authorised by the legislator? Amendments may only be proposed by authorised legislators, i.e. committees, Government or Proposer, if the need for an amendment in the course of the vote has arisen by accepting a previous amendment. You're even that so-called. You shall put the amendment of the Finance Committee before the amendments of the Members of Parliament. You have no regard for the MP whom the people have chosen by definition. Please and I will insist that the minutes of this session are not adopted until the committee's response is included in it, whether the injured Rules of Procedure is in such a way that your services are constantly putting the amendment committees into the material and you are boring us here. It is the same status of the committee or any passerby on the street as regards the submission of amendments to the draft law. We could be here right now even those who follow us from the gallery to submit amendments to the bill. There, they are so empowered, that any committee is authorized to submit amendments to the bill. Don't humiliate us, don't insult us. And in order for someone to have the right to submit an amendment, they must deserve it. It deserves it in the election and only in the election.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24875	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24876	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24877	I owe you an explanation and, of course, a session of the Administrative Board, if it's past the Rules of Procedure. The explanation, the first inaccuracies you made. You've received a report from the board. At the request of the MPs, the Committee considered whether the President of the National Assembly had injured the Rules of Procedure at, I think I would quote correctly, the Third Session of the Second Regular Session, when it came to voting under Rule 159, paragraphs 2 and 3, which concerned the Assembly's decision on work without reports delivered by the Committee and the Government on amendments. Therefore, the Management Board's report has been delivered. Your request for a meeting where your objection will be considered, and I would only ask you to list the members of the Rules of Procedure to which it applies, so that I do not misquote, I know it is 144, but let it be in the stenogram as your request. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24878	First, I will return you to article 131, which says that the right to propose laws, other regulations and general acts has a government, every MP, Parliament of an autonomous province, or at least 15,000 voters. Then, of course, Article 144, which states when the Committee can submit an amendment, Article 141 and Article 53 relating to the rights and duties of the Finance Committee, which does not give any of its provisions the right to the Finance Committee to submit amendments to the draft law. As regards the response of the Administrative Committee, I warn you that you have not yet answered us why the debate on the government's responsibility is not included in the agenda, the responsibility of certain ministers, although the deadlines have been longer than one year, and we have never received an answer from the Administrative Committee whether it is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure that, from 3 to 15 days, you step over, violate us and that you do not give us any explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24879	With the agreement of the President of the Assembly, a session of the Administrative Committee will be scheduled today, or if it is not today, which requires its consent, then tomorrow, when the Administrative Committee decides on it; on Friday, it can. Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate answering for a word? (No) People's MPs Ljubomir Mucic, Radojko Petrovic, Jovan Todorovic, Dusan Cvetkovic, Zivanko Radovančev and Joca Arsic submitted to the 7th amendment. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? The word is made by MP Jovan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24880	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm just going to continue the amendment story to Article 6, but with the particulars. What exactly did we propose as the Socialist Party of Serbia? We proposed that the agrarian budget be returned to these billions and 500 million, which the rebalancing proposal was taken, and we suggested that the funds for the recovery be kept at the same level by the earthquake of destroyed buildings in the Kolubar County. So that's the point. Where'd he come from? To return from the position of grant to RTS and from the position of grant to NGOs within the department of the Ministry of Religion. First of all, I'm asking Mr. Minister what are these NGOs that are funded under the Ministry of Religion division? If it isn't some sects, some religious associations, or I don't know which other communities. We do not understand it, although it is often said about the transparency or transparency of this budget; it is transparent to finance, but we do not know what. Secondly, if the Government and the Ministry of Agriculture are unable to spend the planned funds for the needs of the water industry and agriculture, then the question is objectively raised as to what the government, the ministry and the Minister himself have to do with agriculture as such. Is this a sign that surplus funding is in agriculture, is this a sign that all the needs of agriculture are met, so we can now finance RTS or some other expenditure under the budget, or is it a sign of one non-work or irresponsible relationship between the ministry towards it and how important the area is. For example, consider the question of building rural roads, the question of new forests, the problem of solving water supply problems or flood protection. Was there no way or reason to use these billions and 500 million precisely for other, much more useful purposes and purposes? I think the right of the parliamentary majority here would have to objectively question the responsibility of the ministry. We experience floods from year to year, we experience droughts, we don't have irrigation, we don't have access to rural properties, we don't have new forest plantings, and we have excess resources, and, behold, in the Ministry of Agriculture and Water Management. I think it's completely unwarranted and that, if you want, nonsensic in finance that the ministry that should be most motivated can't actually spend an allotted appraisal for 2002. Then, when it comes to the increase in funds, i.e. holding them at the same level for the Colubary County. We have suggested that 852 million be retained, i.e. in relation to the rebalancing proposal, return that 100 million to the Colubary County for home building, or houses that have been torn apart by earthquakes. Here it is proposed that over a hundred households this year, or families, be left without accommodation. Who's in the interest of who? Again to finance, say, RTS. A hundred homes and families with 400 or 500 people in those houses are also this winter with no roof over their heads, and the appraisal is reduced by 100 million dinars. It's something that really no one reasonable can accept in this congregation. Therefore, Ministers, I strongly suggest that you accept this amendment to the Socialist Party of Serbia and that you confirm, if nothing else, one mild concern of the Government for these two issues that I have spoken of.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24881	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? The word has been issued by MP Ljubomir Mucic, an authorised representative of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24882	This is the amendment that has contributed to all three previous amendments being included in the review and which in fact represents the crown of what we wanted through the amendments to this law. Given that there have been a lot of speeches in previous discussions, I will propose that part of the funds allocated to the Colubary District to remove the consequences of the earthquake in 2002, if they are denied in the amount achieved on the basis of the former contribution, and now the financial transaction tax, amounting to 4 billion and 200 million, that at least the figure and amount foreseen for building buildings in this year 2002 is not reduced. I really don't understand that if the directorate has arranged to build a hundred housing facilities for a hundred families in five or six municipalities of the Kolubar district, at this point that part of the job will not be completed during this year. I think it's illogical to cut the funding by 100 million and to increase some other positions and appropriations in the 2002 budget on that side. First of all, I hope the Ministry of Faith doesn't, and the only thing that remains is to fund it, to pray that it won't be a strong winter, and that these families can survive. On the other hand, I think that once the biggest crowd in the municipality of Minonia, that the government of the Republic of Serbia had hidden 2.5 billion of the money generated from the funds for the removal of earthquakes in the Kolubar district, although the total figure of those funds, which was reached in 2000, was a billion and 590 million. If we've already transferred some of the four billion and 200 funds to cover some other expenditure in the budget, I think it's really inappropriate that what was already planned at the beginning of this year is reduced by those famous 100 million dinars. In addition, I think that both the Ministry of Finance and the Government should indeed accept this amendment, given that the funds for material costs, i.e. the travel costs of one ministry amount to 100 million dinars, and the total funds -- the material costs of one ministry are 320 million dinars. Is one ministry more valuable or those thousands of families in the Colubary County? It is foreseen for the destruction and recovery of 6,000 facilities in three years, how long this contribution to solidarity was to last. Indeed, leave your travels, leave your material expenses, to reconcile our obligations to suppliers and contractors. I think there will be time in the winter for these funds to be regulated through the payment of travel, material costs and all that is less important at this point and less priority than these expenditures. Finally, I call on you to pay particular attention to this amendment in the day of voting, given that four years ago, when the Law on determining contributions to the removal of earthquakes in the Kolubara District was adopted unanimously by the Assembly, with the agreement of all the political parties that were in this Parliament at the time, and that in this proposal we really voted not to at least cut funds for 2002.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24883	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? The word has been made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24884	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 7 is a key member of this bill and it shows the impotence of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to deal with large-scale beasts, with the great criminals, with those who do not want the Republic of Serbia to achieve the incomes established by law, but a part, and that minimum part, drags those revenues directly into their own pocket. The government of the Republic of Serbia has assured us that it is inhumane, that it is inhumane, that the great burden on the family budget is paying the fee for using television, which has been smittenly referred to as an electricity tax. We got the law, we got a re-tax on an electric number, and since yesterday, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, with a bill for spent electricity for November, they get an item of 210 dinars, what it costs them to watch non-state television that is still illegally and undeservedly called Serbian television, with its three channels. Now tell those farmers of yours who, of course, had electric numbers in their pigs, if they hadn't taken them off by now, to take off those numbers, because you had imposed force on them on the villa and on those electric counters. We counted in a parliamentary group, in a rough, 230 euros a day, Serbia's citizens will stand out for RTS financing. Until the outage begins on the basis of an electricity bill, the government of the Republic of Serbia will help its favorites on television by us rebalance the budget to define additional funds for RTS. It is strange that on page 13 they appear, in the section of the Roads Directorate, subsidies to non-financial corporations of five billion and 33 million. Where did the Road Directorate get that money? Here, I have a contract in front of me on the construction of a gas station, imagine where, on the part of the highway through New Belgrade. He didn't know where to look, they didn't know where to give him, somewhere across the street from the new sports halls. They'll take part of the footpath, they'll reach under the window of the residents of the big block there. I took it to count on what the Republic Road Directorate had committed him to. Turns out it's 800,000 dinars. Imagine that contractor who agreed to contract a temporary location for five years. Is there anyone, my dear gentlemen, who would be willing to invest in the construction of a gas station, a coffee shop and one store for five years, on a temporary permit? There isn't. I can't believe that, unless he's a favorite of the government, under the regulation on the transport of petroleum products, he can't do that in a price difference, on legally sold oil products, that money can't get away with it. I guess a team will find some money to fix those bridges in the Ostružnica that we built, so yours were destroyed and they weren't even put into traffic, so the transit will go around Belgrade, so maybe there'll be reduced traffic at that gas station. If you give up the Revenue Roads Directorate, it's a unique location, unrepeated, it's a treasure, because you have a pump on the Dragon, you have a private puma at Lasta or the police, and you have it on the hill of Jugopetrol. Another one, where there was a chain accident yesterday, can be done on that part of the highway and is no longer in Belgrade good locations for pumps that you have not already given to your public. And you 800.00 dinars! It cost at least 500,000 marks in someone's pocket, ladies and gentlemen. That's how it's done in Serbia now. Now it's all very cheap because we're gonna put a budget on it, there's sales taxes, but that's why the money's being cut off directly in the pocket. (President: five minutes. You've torn people down at the Zemun kei kiosk, and you've granted a permit to build some 1,500 square-square store, back on the Zemun kei. What's this about? What revenue for Bojana Lekic and her anti-Serbian policy, what revenue for such a Serbian Radio Television. (President: National MP, time for discussion on the amendment has expired. If you want to take a picture, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, pay as we have to visit on every TV to pay. We will fund your appearance on state television. That TV, as it was in one time before you, no one's looking at you anymore. (President: six minutes. I'm asking you to keep me posted every 15 seconds, it's too long for me for 30 seconds. This is going into the tunnel and into the dark. (President: six minutes and 15 seconds. ) Thank you very much. Do you have this kind of budget for the Republic of Serbia today? You signed it every time. (President: six minutes and 30 seconds. When the government changes, you will be asked why you have called it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24885	National MP Tomislav Nikolic is well aware that the punishment for violating the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and I give you a second warning is provided for over time and replacement of the theme for the speaker. Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Velimir Simonovic. The Financial Committee adopted this amendment, with the legal technical regulation proposed by the Committee, agreed by the applicant. On behalf of the act's promoter, does the minister have the government's position on the amendment accepted by the Committee?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24886	The government has accepted this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24887	The minister reports to the assembly that the government has accepted the amendment, making it an integral part of the bill. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Pavlovic. The Finance Committee has accepted this amendment. Does the minister have a position, on behalf of the act's promoter?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24888	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24889	The minister reports to the assembly that the government has accepted the amendment, making it an integral part of the bill. The Committee on Finance has submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. The applicant for the amendment, on behalf of the Committee president, MP Nenad Bogdanovic, is not there. Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. This concludes the search of the bill in particular. Does the proposing representative, Mr Bozidar Djelic, the finance and economy minister, want the final word? There's a minister, Mr. Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24890	Madam President, honourable Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to answer in a few sentences those questions that are raised in this discussion and to say in fact what it means to vote, and what it means not to vote for this bill, since it seems to me that through this discussion the meaning is a little lost. The first thing, as far as this law is concerned, it stems from another system law, which this house voted in February of this year, which is the Budget System Act. We saw in the previous point that before it was possible, quite legally, that the Government of the Republic of Serbia was redistributing funds, and that was done in 2001. This is no longer possible, and those who say rebalancing, rebalancing -- yes, it would absolutely be better if it never came to rebalancing, which would mean that predicting and all that is regulated by law is going on as planned, however, we as a country are largely stabilised, but not entirely. And if you see the reasons why it comes here to rebalance, I'm going to get a little bit more detailed about it in just a second, we see that we're not a fully stabilized country. That's why the Rebalancing Institute will most likely exist next year, perhaps once, quite certainly. If this House adopts the Constitutional Charter, according to those provisions, and the 2003 budget will have to be revised, if for no other reason, then at least because of the Constitutional Charter and the changes it brings. I would also like to say, but when in a country like ours it is not possible to say with certainty that there will never be a rebalancing again, it is so good that the government should come before this home, that this rebalancing will be carried out. And if we look at the real situation, and I just want to say again, the tax system has given and given as much as was expected of it, on the items that are there to cover the deficit. Things are within the scope of what is envisaged, and hence, these financial governors or expenditures are at a level that could be expected. However, we have some positions that require more space, and these positions are not some arbitrary government, but life has imposed them. These are pensions, it is a smooth provision of services in the rail domain, or the most necessary repairs in the domain of electricity, or social inclusion. In this way, this government shows that it takes the law very seriously, takes very seriously the obligations it has to the citizens, and I therefore expect this House to take this same way, that obligation, which we have to the citizens too. There were a few questions I'd like to answer. As for NGOs, and that was Professor Simonovic's question, here I want to say that we have a name here that comes from an international classification, which we adopted in the Law on the Budgetary System, so that our public finances are more clear, that we can compare ourselves with some other countries, see what and how much we spend on some countries, which are close to us, or the ex-Yugoslav Republic, or Bulgaria, and thus compare whether we spend less or more, that we can analyze it. It's good, however, what's behind it -- it's the Red Cross, it's funding you, i.e. political parties here, in parliament, and the Association of Fighters. That's it, so there's no other item here, and there's an increase that's mostly because the Red Cross had more of its own income, and he had more of his own income because the gambling revenues were slightly bigger than what was planned, and he financed part of it and he got that money. This topic will only come to the agenda of this esteemed home, if you put into one of the next sessions and the proposal for a law on gambling, which was passed to you several months ago, which should have been a lasting way to better regulate this matter, which is very sensitive, and I hope that this law will make it even better. There were also questions about RTS. What I'm saying here is, as far as the subscription is concerned, it's something that the Law on Broadcasting, which you voted a few months ago, and what it's heard about, I think it's a preparation shop for that. If we want to have partial and cultural heritage and have some documentaries, some not purely commercial emissions, I think there is, and you showed that by voting that law a month ago, a consensus in our country that we need one such institution and that it's worth funding from one subscription. Because if we look at the experience of this year, I can say very openly that it's not good to fund RTS in the way it's funded this year, that it's not good that it comes directly from the budget, because in some perspective it can be some element of pressure on that house, and it shouldn't be that way. Therefore, as much as I personally engage in the absence of these dedicated taxes and taxes that lead to the destruction of public finances, here is an exception that is valuable, because this very important institution will have its own income, which will not envy what is happening in the budget, how the budget is implemented and what are priorities. As a result, it is very important to implement the overpayment, as provided for in the law. The last thing I'd like to say is, it's about agrarians. Of course, there's been a lot of, I'd say, a little bit of demagogue than what's been said. The paperwork is what stalled the payoffs, not that the agrarian wanted to sacrifice himself, and I can responsibly say that no peasant will be cut off by this. Milk premiums are paid regularly, we even had a situation that one opposition party MP said a few months ago that, hand to heart, those milk premiums were never bigger, they were never more regular, that's reality and that's good. Also, sugar beet premiums, tobacco premiums, they'll all be paid off, and that's already the next item of the agenda of this session. The space for this is foreseen, for these payments, in the 2003 budget. The message is here for our peasants that no one here, with this rebalancing, will be severed. What I'd like to conclude is that here is often trying to carry out a replacement thesis -- the government is here, in front of this house, according to the law, to propose one budget rebalance, and that's its responsibility; but it's also the responsibility of this home to vote this law. Because if you don't vote it - and I want it to be very clear to our citizens, and now I would like to address some categories of pensioners, to be clear to them - that those MPs who vote against this rebalancing law are asking the government not to pay off part of their pensions for December, because largely, almost 37% of pensions are funded through budget transfers, and that these funds could be paid by law, it is important that this law be passed. So, those who vote against it, vote against your pensions, and for those who are from the ZTP, that's the same thing. The funds necessary to pay wages in December require these legal changes. It is the same for those who expect some social benefits. The government has a responsibility, but so are the parties, as will these MPs who will vote on this bill. I just wanted it to be very clear and it's up to our citizens to judge when they vote, whether they vote in their best interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24891	I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. I remind you that according to Article 148(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure, the President of the National Assembly may set a day for the vote on a draft budget or on a draft amending and supplementing the budget during the session, without waiting for the debate to be concluded in principle and detail on the other points of the agenda. Since we have conducted a review of the bill's proposal in principle and detail, the National Assembly will, following the decision of the National Assembly President, decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle and detail.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24892	First of all, I would ask you, Mrs. Comić, when I ask for a word of violation of the Rules of Procedure to give me immediately, not to perform your tirad, you are not authorized by the Rules of Procedure. Secondly, under Article 100(1), you should have warned Mr. Minister here, first of all, not to offend the MPs, not to accuse us here of how we will vote and not to turn the old population against the MPs and not to lie to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. That's why Mrs. Comic, you should have told him right away... (President: People's Parliament, I remind you that you have two measures of reminder and I remind you of the duties of the Rules of Procedure, that you are paying tribute to all members of the Government and to the Members of the People. ..... Well, remind me, remind the minister, that this is the May month, so the minister will say - if you don't adopt this, there won't be a pension, I could understand it, but in December, when all pensions are paid, except for one, that the minister is lying to us that there will be no pension if the MPs dare vote against his bill. You're not ashamed, Mr. Minister. Who are you to talk about Serbian pensioners, you flew a year ago, you'll fly away in three months. (President: National MP, I remind you of the provisions of Rules of Procedure Members 100, 101. .... ..... Which reminds me, why don't you remind the minister who comes out here to act important, to fool around with his statements here. People's MP, you have two warnings... So what, don't threaten me.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24893	You're forcing me to apply the Rules of Procedure further. So, during the debate on the amendments and additions of this law and the final accounts, there were behind this speaker freedom of speech among the MPs, in what they said, as much as on the same right, as the MPs, there is a minister, if there are arguments for his position. I thank you for your participation in the morning session.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24894	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please insert identification cards into MPs to determine the quorum. I find that using the electronic system has established that we have a quorum to work with as well as a quorum to decide. 175 MPs are present in the O.R. Therefore, we continue the fifth session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly in 2002. I agree that the sittings are attended by the President, Vice-Presidents and Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We move to the fourth item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2003. A YEAR Before we continue to discuss the 2003 budget, I will put one motion to the vote. In this regard, due to the legal obligation to adopt the budget by 15 December, I propose that we extend our working hours to the conclusion of the debate on the budget, and then continue the debate in particular in the morning and hold a vote on the budget, which allows us to have a Rules of Procedure on the basis of Article 148. I'm putting a motion to vote, to work today until the budget debate is over. For 100, against 49, the two abstentions, did not vote 22, out of 173 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal today to work on a principle debate on the 2003 draft law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia. You have received a draft budget bill for the Republic of Serbia for 2003, with a Memorandum of Budget and Economic and Fiscal Policy for the financial year 2003 and for the next two years and financial plans for the 2003 mandatory social security organisations, as well as a supplement to the reasoning of the proposal for the necessary funds by individual budget users, with a draft law on the 2003 budget of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Nenad Bogdanović, together Predrag Mijailović and Dragoljub Vojnović, Veroljub Arsić, Milorad Mirčić, Natasa Jovanovic, Tomislav Nikolic, Aleksandar Vučić, Gordana Pop-Lazić, Miroljub Veljković; jointly Zarko Obradović, Zoran R. Angelković, Ljubomir Mucic, Radojko Petrović, Nebojša Jović and Hranislav Perić; together Toma Bušetić, Jovan Todorović, Dusan Cvetković, Joca Arsić, Radojko Petrić and Ljubomir Mucic; together Živanko Radović, Dragan Živić and Živić Zalić. National MP Zoran R. Angelkovic, written in writing, withdrew the amendments to the article. 2nd and 7th. It's a bill of law. At a session of the Committee on Finance, National MP Nenad Bogdanovic withdrew the amendments to the article. Six and seven. It's a bill of law. On 10 December, MPs Mirko Rosic and Predrag Stojanovic submitted the amendment to Article 7. Proposal for a law that is untimely, because it was submitted after the deadline for submitting amendments. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. At the session of the Legislative Committee, the opinion was set aside by MP Dragan Rafaelovic. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that according to Article 90, the total time of the debate is five hours and that it is allocated to a relatively large number of MPs that this parliamentary group has. I ask the representatives of the parliamentary groups to file a statement with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 136(1) of the Treaty, I'm opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in principle. Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic spoke of the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24895	Good day, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of Parliament; through public finances and budgets, as the most important part of public finances, almost all of the most important topics in one society, from those of the widest, ideological, to those of the concrete, in terms of how much a group of budget users will receive in the financial year of the projected funds. Of course, the philosophy of public finances defines the character of social and political order in one country. The entire 19th and 20th centuries were marked by very sharp ideological conflicts over the role of the state. public sector and markets, market and state relations and millions of people died in these ideological struggles believing: one, that the state should have greater participation, that the state should have more money and distribute it into society; another, that the state should interfere as little as possible and that it should be left to the market to regulate relations in society. And they are still in serious countries and serious governments to discuss which part of the social product, which part of the money created in one society, should be left to those who created it, means to cut taxes, and what part should be allocated to those who do not have the same chance of participating directly in social wealth, but rather in certain social solidarity and redistribution should be participants in what a society produces during one year. Of course, the debate on the budget is a debate on the state of the economy, and that was seen today and yesterday in your discussions. The budget is due to the state of the economy; if the economy in one country, even in ours, in a much better state then, of course, there would be more money and then out of that budget could be made more flexible and more total distribution. For example, in Japan's budget 40% of the funds are allocated to finance public works, primarily in construction and travel infrastructure, 40% because Japan's budget does not give such large parts for social needs, pensions and other legal obligations, which are characteristic of our budget. So, the state of the economy will be a subject and, of course, it would be inappropriate to say now that the debate only comes down to budget allocation techniques. I think this is an opportunity for both our public and the parties in this House to say something about the economic policy that is being led in this country and the priorities of this economic policy, because a lot of it is a political issue. The political question is whether we're going to define the rights as we defined them in our country; if we define them as we defined them, then one large part of the budget debate is practically understood by itself, because you can't define on one side pensioners' rights to a certain amount of pensions, and then on the other hand you say -- but we're not going to provide those funds in the budget, because obviously that pension insurance contributions are not enough to provide that. So that's one chain of decisions where at first there's a question about the character of our society. Do we want a society that will primarily be governed by market principles, by competition, by who can make as much money as it needs to get, with a mild mechanism of intervention, or we want a society that will in general take much more care of social solidarity at the expense of market mechanisms at one stage. These are all sensitive issues and the budget is one of the answers to these questions. We as Government have given some of our ideas through the budget for the past, this and the next from the Japanese budget. It is a political topic that we can openly discuss politically, challenge or affirm. We have the argument that this concept of the budget and this concept of society is fair and good. What is not possible is that the shadow of one side accepts this concept and challenge its consequences; to say - yes, we want to give a billion dollars out of the budget supplement for pension funds, because they can't be filled just out of contributions; we want to give a billion or 500 million euros or dollars for social benefits; we want to give a billion euros, two billion marks, 62, 63 billion dinars for the salaries of doctors, teachers and those people who receive salaries from the budget; we want it all; and on the other hand we're against the budget, we don't want those taxes, we don't want those contributions. That's not possible. Corrections can be made within one budget concept, public revenues, public finances or it is possible to offer a whole other concept. The concept we represent is characteristic of our country because of its problems and it is a social concept. So our budget is one country's budget with social problems, the country's budget in the neighbourhood, which in the successful countries of the market economy achieves outside the budget, can only be realised with the help of the budget. They're mostly pensioners, they're socially endangered families. If we were to exempt that part from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, which is one quarter or one third, then on the basis of the revenues we have, we could talk about many other priorities. Should we invest a little more in roads or hospitals, schools, buildings, or as an incentive of economy, agriculture or other important activities, but we need to know that in this case, we have not had that amount that we have defined for these needs I mentioned available. So the cake is what it is: we can share it inside it, and we can't blow it up and force it up. It's an axiom, and I'm asking you to take care of it. Of course, the budget is a political issue and is very vulnerable to political demagogy. Surely, both by the government and by the opposition, there is much that is a little demagogue formulate, but there is no need to exaggerate. Then it creates one sense of political irresponsibility in the country. He who claims that taxes should be reduced and budget expenditure increased is an irresponsible demagogue. I would hate to see such demagogy prevail in our country, because then it will lose its sense of reality and that money must be earned to be spent. The only way to spend money without earning it is to borrow irresponsibly on the basis of the future, printing money, spending the economic substance of society and the imminent collapse of that society and that economy. That's one way we don't want to go. So we have on one side possible income, and on the other we have priorities. Let's talk about it in principle and see if this government has made the right decision, when it decides not to touch the established rights, and especially socially endangered groups of the population, our oldest residents, or maybe it's wrong. Maybe he should have gone, as in some other countries did, with a more liberal political philosophy and said, "Let's cut taxes and let people use their money creatively, for economics, so after a certain number of years, this economy will be strong enough to finance some social systems from its regulatory contributions, such as pension insurance. The question arises, what would happen in that time with millions of people who can't from those revenues collected from regular sources, such as contributions, to finance their basic needs. This is a very difficult issue and certainly for the finance minister the most difficult question, how one very limited resource is well deployed when those who get it are unhappy, because it is too little for them, but it is still too much for the budget itself, because there remains very little room for some other priorities. The basic problem of our society is that it also has a social and property structure that is typical of undeveloped societies or developing societies, and has an age and labour structure typical for developed countries in the zenith of its civilization path. So we have the property status of the population, the gross product per capita and the total social product that is characteristic of some African countries. So 1,400, 1,500 dollars per capita, that's less than Iraq, which has 2,400 dollars and that's less than most of our countries in the environment. We have a population, on the contrary, an average of 39 years, which involves certain costs of social and health insurance, reduced mobility and the sustainability of that population and certain social systems to support the population of that age. On the other hand, developing countries have a population between 15 and 25 years old, which means much less pension and health insurance costs, much greater sustainability of the population and much less the need for the state to deal with the status and standard of the population. Then it is possible to apply a normal model of development there, which means that the less you take from the population by tax, the less you don't need to give to the population, because it's just fighting for itself. Then you have one accelerated development. We have to solve a dilemma, and I want you to know seriously about this dilemma, that our social ageing reserves are completely exhausted, that our population is already one significant part of those social services, but on the other hand, there are no financial reserves to fund. The budget is the expression of that dilemma. It can be, I said, challenged in principle and said, let's also try to take a model of the development of Singapore or a model of development, I don't know, Albania, or Portugal or some other country, which in its first few years went with much lower taxes, with much lower taxes, but of course then pensions were financed only from contributions. I'm against it, but I'm allowing it to be theoretically possible. At one point, in a conversation with the representatives of pensioners in our country, who complained that they were getting far less pensions than they deserved, we suggested: let's form a fund for the PIO that will be a fully independent institution, where you will set up a board of directors, where this fund will be filled with contributions from pension insurance and as much as this fund is filled with so many pensions. Be aware that it will be 40% less than pensions now, because over 40% of pensions come from the budget. Of course, that wasn't a good suggestion on our part. The proposal was only meant to shed light on the situation, that pensions in our country are low, but there are 40% of citizens' taxes and social solidarity. It irritates me to see in the paper the claims that we are a haven of social differences and social colds. We are the most socially solidarityed country of the countries I know. At the amount citizens collect and give to the oldest citizens, we are the first among the countries whose finances I follow. This should be clear, this parliament, by voting this budget, votes out the budget of pronounced social solidarity, an appropriate situation where pensions from contributions are so low that it would be inhumane to tell people, are what we can do for the past 10-15 years your money has been spent. Our government wasn't back then. We didn't manage your funds. We all have to bear the price of historical mistakes. I think that would be unfair. If we've broken it and most of us think we're right about this approach, then we'll make an easy deal on everything else. Are we going to invest 18 billion in infrastructure, roads, five or 10 billion in repairing hospitals or schools, these are technical issues. These are relatively small amounts compared to the principled definition: are we actually correcting some of the social injustices that have taken place over the past 10 years at this stage of the tax. That's why it's not quite a valid remark, which I heard last time we talked about the budget today and yesterday, following your debate -- why there are no more big investments, the government doesn't support the economy, why it doesn't encourage production. That sounds nice, but the first question is, from which means, from which sources. You can't do both. We're not Japan, which can 40% of its budget, which is tens of billions of dollars, to invest in building roads, bridges, to hire. Even 11% of all Japanese employees are working on projects financed by the government in the economy. That would be great, and of course that leads to certain other problems, because these are subsidies and the question is how economically justified these projects are, but from the point of view of encouraging development that would be great. But there is no money and you can't say on one side -- we want to run social policy through the budget, but at the same time we want to run economic policy through the budget. The budget, I said, is very limited. He's got as much money as he has. You can't raise it if you don't raise taxes, but in my opinion, taxes are on the verge of being unsustainable for the economy. So we can't raise taxes. We can't print money. We have that amount of money that we have in the budget and we need to deploy it according to our priorities, as we think it's right. That's why I don't think we can use the budget as an engine of economic development in 2003. He is not the only generator of the economy and that something is not in the budget does not mean that the government is not actively involved in stimulating and micro-economy in terms of businesses. But it can't be more of a budget in the function of the economy than it is now, because that would mean taking money from someone and then giving money to the economy. There were remarks that the Development Fund had very little participation in the budget, and I remember an amendment last year, where the Socialist Party of Serbia was asked to increase the amount in the Development Fund. Not that part of the budget is the only financial business factor of the Development Fund, so the 2002 Development Fund has provided loans of 6.5 billion dinars. So, the Development Fund is a small generator of the economy. It is a small part of the budget, but these are some of the relations we are talking about today in Serbia. We can't talk about a billion or $2 billion or $3 billion, which the government could now give to the construction industry, insert into the infrastructure to run large systems, because that money isn't contained in the budget, and we need to be very aware of the reality we're talking about today. I think that even if we had that money, and that's another principle issue, it wouldn't be the right way for the government to finance the economy, that the money of the citizens is being collected from society through taxes and then directed to some businesses, no matter how much our heart hurts when we see one of our once successful companies, who lacks money to restart production. There is no money, but the question is whether it is the right way to heal the economy in one country, to take money from citizens again through tax and to give to businesses. I mean, in principle, it's not the right way. The economy has to get better in a different way. Even slower, but safer and safer. The money that would have been injected today in the economy through the budget would have spent a very short time in the economy and it would have melted through salaries, through various costs and already for the next budget it would have to be injected again, if not a larger amount of money. It is a mechanism that has existed in this country not only for 10 years, but also for, say, 20 or 30 years, financing the economy through state mechanisms, by intervention by the Government, where these loans, which were then taken, the debts that our country now has or have been based on general taxation through hyperinflation after some time, were devalued and then those who took them did not have to pay them back. It was a kind of political gift that led not to the recovery of the economy, but to create a rather irresponsible economy. Without a radical and radical restructuring of our economy, our businesses, there will be no increase in its efficiency, competitiveness, its productivity, and that is another axiom that I want to mention to you. If someone says the government needs to do this -- the government needs to do it out of the budget, why not -- I think it represents another concept that has proved to be a failure in all the countries where it has been tried. Some MPs who discussed this had a partial understanding of this concept, only said why the government did not contribute to more investment and why the economy is not recovering faster. It was mostly those whose party is responsible for this condition we have today. So, if we talk about our country having about 4 billion euros in citizens, changed at the beginning of this year, which would be for our entire economy, for investment enough for two full years, the question is why our citizens don't trust our economy and why they prefer to keep that money in the gray economy or private, and they don't invest it where we explain it to them that it's the most profitable, it means through jobs, through the privatisation of businesses, through the formation of new businesses. Because they don't trust each other. Our citizens still don't trust fair business in this country to be worth it. Some have fewer, some have more, but they still, like other investors, are waiting to see if this system that we have established will be permanent. If someone says now why this trust isn't established faster, I can say it's those who have ruined that trust over ten years. He can't trust to come back in a month or two, if it's a few times failed. Gentlemen, if the well has been poisoned for 10 years systematically and now it's being cleaned for a year or two days, you can't exactly say - I want a source line after two years. And there was an old virgin savings, there was one hyperinflation of the 1990s, there was another hyper inflation in 1993, and it all went over this people; this people is very careful and they don't want their money just to invest in the economy, although we're confident that that money wasn't lost, so that money would be fertilized and returned. That means it's a process that's not that simple. The process requires its time, and it is important that the citizens of Serbia realize that they have a political system that is stable, responsible, where people who know what they are doing and that citizens can believe that our future is predictable and that no hyperinflation will happen again, that no one will come tomorrow and say, we raise wages left, we raise wages right, we have no money from where, we will print money and the entire financial system will collapse. Please support our efforts to keep budget spending within the framework of financial discipline and no strike, no protest can be a reason to increase wages beyond what is earned by the budget and what can be truly collected from the tax. I know it's hard, and I know the hardest thing to do is to tell people that they can't get a salary increase, and they live badly, but if we give in today, then we've ruined everything we've done these two years. If citizens realize that we have a difficult way ahead of us, but the way of stabilisation and public finances, economies and standards of citizens, then they too will dare to step up their potentials, their financial savings and their money into our economy. Four billion euros, as far as our citizens have changed from brand to euro, would be enough for this country to need neither the World Bank nor the International Monetary Fund nor foreign investment. I don't need to, but those 4 billion euros out of caution are still in the hands of citizens and of us as Government and you as Parliament depend on how long they will keep us at rehearsals, how much longer they will look at it with mistrust and ask if this is permanent or if this is going to break at some point, as many reforms in our past have broken. The second element of this same topic, this same problem is the real state of our economy, and I am very sorry that I took the responsibility to speak very unpleasant truths to myself. There is one custom in Serbia and in other countries there is a saying for it - kill a messenger who brings bad news. It's not the messenger's fault for bringing bad news. It's better to hear that news, so let's face it, than to fool ourselves with some illusions and say, I don't know what's wrong with me today, I feel a little bad, it's got to be air pressure. Let's look at the blood count of our economy, see what we're talking about when we say that our economy isn't progressing fast enough, that our economy doesn't have enough healthy jobs, the government should do something about it, to see which we, as some "doctors", "patient" we're talking about. As the Serbian economy currently looks, in what state it is in the long term and what is realistically possible to do, as a government and as a government, in a given period, to see if enough is done. If we estimate that it's not working enough, that this economy is in a much better state, and that it just takes a little bit to move forward with rapid development, I admit, we're taking accounts, we're retreating and we're saying -- we haven't succeeded in the great potential of this particular economy to activate. If we talk as realistic people about facts, then the fact that our economy, in the long term, has been, in the last few decades in a very bad and difficult state: property, technology structure, border structures, trade capital, innovation and products, competitiveness on the European and world market, at prices, at quality, by energy consumption per dollar, per working hour per capita at the level of months and years. These are all indicators that we can't remove from the globe with any ideologies. That's the facts. The fact is that Serbia, along with Bosnia and Herzegovina and Belarus, is the only country in Europe where the non-private sector covers more than 50% of the economy. We have state and social enterprises. We are in European standards of a country that has the least companies, percentages, which employ less than 50 workers and are considered small and medium-sized enterprises, which are dynamic, which are the generator of development. We're a country, I'll read you the latest data, in which 48% of employees work in companies that have lost their business in the first six months of this year. These losses amount to 43 billion dinars. This means almost a billion euros, or 800m euros, are losses in 27,000 companies, which is 42% of the total number of enterprises in Serbia. The paradox is that 12% among these companies are businesses in the production of food products, which is the sector that is otherwise developing, which is an important factor of the economy in this country. If you ask why, you have a very simple answer in another data. This is by making the degree of depravity of equipment in the Serbian economy 83%. The degree of write-off in industry and mining is 87%. The road network of 14,500 km of roads, the level of consumption and write-off, so to speak, the highways are 82% and the regional roads are 85%. Of the 2,400 bridges, 71% would have to be remounted urgently and thoroughly. It's the state of what our economy currently has. So we have a technology that is 85% written off and we have half the companies in our country that show loss and half or slightly less than half of the employees who work in such businesses. It's a real state of affairs that we need certain mechanisms to influence, among other things, financial policy. We can't just change it. We can't change 85% of the elaborate technology that hasn't been restored for 15 years. It's the result of a trend that's not just been going on for the last 10 years. The last major investment in Serbia was in the mid-80s and, except in some smaller cases, no equipment was purchased for factories in Serbia. Meanwhile, there have been two technological revolutions in the world. The world has moved from post-industry society to information society. We missed both because the first revolution was in the late '80s, and the second revolution was in the mid-90s. While in the world now the same product is being made computer, robotically, with remote controls, with us people doing it with their hands, with their experiences, with their qualifications, and they should be competitive. It's a real state of affairs. That's not tragic. If it were tragic, I wouldn't be so optimistic about it, but it's real. We need to see how we're going to solve this, not complain, not set up excessive expectations, and then disappoint ourselves that it can't be realized, but look realistically at what mechanisms we can actually look at in this economy and this country to gradually modernise, to replace that technology, to pump up investment capital, trade capital, to return to the markets where we were once present and to heal our economy and our society. That condition isn't so bad at all. For example. One of the branches where protests are sometimes heard is construction. Naturally, in all countries, and everyone who has been involved in development, without the development of construction, there is no economic development in situations of economic crisis, neither in America, nor in Europe, nor in the Far East. So whatever country went into economic development, the first branch that went into development were apartments, business spaces, meaning construction. We often hear and see in the papers that people in construction complain that it's not exactly happening in our country. But if you look at the numbers then you see that's not quite true. I asked around, say, in Belgrade. At present, the contract agreed to build a million square meters. Something's in the works now, something's gonna be done next year. A million square meters is a real investment of 500m to a billion euros. In one city in one year, between mid-to-centre next year, between 500m and a billion euros will be invested, spent on elementary construction works in Belgrade. On the other hand, when you talk to investors, you see that the situation in our construction operation is not great and that all these works are not so easy to perform. We have a management problem, we have a problem with the situation in the construction industry, and it's not just a lack of investment, it's a matter and a lack of instruments to implement these investments in one quality way. According to World Bank records, in 2001 there were foreign direct investments in our country of about $138m, and in 2002 there will be about $500m. So that's just what was recorded through the World Bank. It is percentage, per capita, more than in one country in transition in the first two years. So, this mistrust, which, both with our citizens and with some of our friends, exists in relation to the future of our economy, is not shared by investors. Would someone build a million square meters in Belgrade if you thought this country was not worth investing in? No, I don't. So please, when you talk about this country's economy, don't say things that are uglier than reality. Reality is hard enough. This country doesn't have to go down yet and say that it's Colombia, that there's nothing going on in it, that she's in crisis, that she's in agony. No, there are world houses that analyze investment risks, and by these estimates, we're one very promising country. Also, it's found an expression in the state of public finances. I think it's a good trend that we all need to say hello. Namely, if we talk about the difference between 2001 and 2002, which will certainly be projected to the difference 2002/2003. In the year, we can see that the total tax with the same tax rate was 41% higher in 2002 than in 2001. That means the taxes were the same, and we raised 41% more money this year than last year because there was so much more activity, so much more traffic. Total traffic in the first ten months of this year is 20% higher than total sales in stores in 10 months last year. That means people got some real money. He's not huge, he's not enough to save, he's not enough to buy a house or an apartment, to buy a car, but he's 20% more traffic either and people have bought things for daily purposes. That's one positive news, positive for the budget, but above all for the citizens of our country. Of course, it's not just about mistrust, it's not about the state of our economy, which is not great, it's also about some political and administrative obstacles. I am aware that there is an entire block of obstacles to normal life and normal business in our country. They're still asking you for licenses for everything and everything, and you're still waiting for every permit for six months, a year. You still have bureaucratic tight throats, you still have corruption in places where you should get your right without any problems, you still don't have executive organs, economic courts, which will make a quick and just verdict in some economic dispute. It also slows down our processes and our modernisation. But what I can tell you is that, with the fact that there are these obstacles, I can guarantee you that in these two years, the government of the Republic of Serbia has not set any new obstacles to normal life and normal business in this country. We removed some obstacles, we solved something we found, but I can say that we are probably one of the rare governments in Serbia's history that has not set a single obstacle in two years. We've been trying to enable normal traffic in society, and ideas, and parties, and money, and capital, and businesses and everything that makes the life of a society. It's not because the government wants it, it's because we inherited a long-term, maybe an age-old system, in which normal life and normal business weren't a rule, but an exception. But if this assembly through its more efficient work, through its initiatives, would identify all these narrow throats and these obstacles, which we as a system have, of course, would contribute to this whole project and, of course, that we could next year, or in 2004, 2005 say that there is no more condition in our country for a successful business and a successful life, except for someone's wish or someone else's decision to do it, or not to do it. I'm aware that there are still a lot of obstacles in our country for someone who wants to work and live normally, but much less than in 2000, much less than in 1980, 1970, 1975, means much less than we've built as a system for decades. And finally, the last thing is, and I end up, one round, starting with public finances, income, expenditure, social giving, economy, to citizens' standards. Because in the end, however we go, from macroeconomic and macroeconomic issues, it always ends up -- and how is it for individual people in this country? Is it true that most people in our country live worse than they did last year? If that were true, then it would be a defeat for this government and I'm telling you that's not true. The truth is that one part of our citizens get their income from a bad-standing company. It is true that we, by introducing market principles into economy and business, have led to some prices becoming economic prices, while some people are working in non-marketable companies but are still social enterprises, which are making losses. This led to a disproportion with the standard of one part of the population, which on the one hand pays services and products that it buys at market prices, and on the other hand does not actually have a wage market, but receives salaries in the way that it was obtained before, minimals, or what one company that does not have its own product, nor its market, nor its trade capital, and pays somehow gives as some kind of social assistance. This leads to the fact that one part of our population does not see their place in transition and thinks they are losers of transition. That's not true. The truth is, they still haven't come to that natural order, to move from one failed system to safe, into one system that works successfully. Fortunately, the number of these people is not as large, as is sometimes the public impression, and there are pretty exact data on both salaries, and on the cost of living, and on wages by categories. So, realistically speaking, on average, over the past year, purchasing power has been evenly doubled. The rise in wages and the rise in prices are such that whoever received the average salary a year ago and paid the average prices a year ago can buy twice as much as he could for that salary a year ago. Of course, not everyone's average. In some, it's more, in some it's less, but it's not some secret, and for that there are very exact data, which can be checked in institutions dealing with the recording of earnings. According to these data, 24.9% of Serbian employees receive average earnings of up to 7,800 dinars, and their average is 5,400 dinars, which is 283,000 employees in our country and perhaps 283,000 families, if they are the only employees. Another 25%, which is 283,000 employees, receives average earnings from 7,800 to 10,700 dinars, with an average salary of 9,300 dinars. Another 24.9%, which is 283,000 employees in Serbia, receives an average net profit between 10,700 dinars and 13,600 dinars, with an average of around 12,000 dinars. And finally, the last 25%, which is 282,000, receives an average profit of over 13,000 dinars, the average profit is 18,000. So we have 25% of our citizens, who receive an average profit of 18,000 dinars per month, net, which isn't much, but given the situation of the general economy as we have found, given the exhaustion of all the financial reserves in this society, I don't think that's so bad. So in Serbia, there is a division of four social groups, of which 25% of the population is obviously in the red zone, that they are very difficult and that the social policy of this country should help them, but we must not spread the impression that Serbia is one country where everyone lives badly and that there are no 25% of people who actually live decently. The fundamental question is whether we are going to build a state of social solidarity, whether we are going to try to help through public finances those who are not yet in a position to ensure a decent life by their work, or whether we are going to let market laws in order for them to try to bring order into this country. I am in favour of us, through the budget, through public finances and through our policy, introducing a principle, or retaining the principle of social solidarity, to say -- we want to be a country of social cohesion, which will not redistribute poverty and create false egalitarianism, but rather a country that will create more and more opportunities for people to make their incomes through their work, and for those layers of people who are not in a position to live decently from their work to find social mechanisms that will be financed by each other and through public finances. I think that's the path that results, which can be defended by strong arguments, which has nothing to do with parties, with ideology, is the question of modernising our country, increasing its strength. In order for her to be independent, she must finance her needs, she must not depend. She must be their strong institutions. It's all costing. In order for that to happen, we need to have our place on the world market. In order for this to happen, we must be part of some international networks, institutions, such as other countries participating in the world market. It's one package in general. You can't take one without leaving the other. You can't say - I'll just be where I'm used to cooperating, and where I'm no use I won't cooperate. You can't say - I don't care about the economy, I want to have strong police, strong military, strong security. All this is interlinked, and this is linked to one concept of modernising our country towards a market economy, social solidarity and the responsibility of all participants in political and economic life. It's a program that's much wider than the budget. This budget may be a small stage on that road, but an important stage, because through the budget and through public finances it shows how mature we are to not spend more than we have and to agree to take responsibility, that those who think they should get more, and they can't get more, that we all tell them together -- brothers, gentlemen, citizens, we're sorry, so much this year we can and we won't make false promises, which we ourselves know we can't keep. So, I don't think this budget is bad, he's still very closely composed for his users. I have understandings for doctors and teachers, and for cops, and for all those who are not scheduled to raise their salary enough, but that's maximum. So we can't do more than that if we're responsible people. I don't think he's bad, I think he's taking our country one step further in its development. All in all, I think this country is about to have a great future, and I think you're okay with that, too. Thank you for the attention you've listened to me with.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24896	I thank Mr. Prime Minister. I ask if the word "proposer", finance and economics minister, Mr. Bozidar Djelic wants? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24897	Madam President, honourable Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, for the third time in a row, I have the honour to explain on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia the great lines of this budget. I just want to say that this is another budget of responsibility and reality and what we can say is that the quality of a continental European society, which expresses a great degree of solidarity between generations, between regions, is going a little bit better between the parts of economics, against those who are not doing very well at this point. For this reason, it seems to me that one of these budgets can be supported by a very broad number of MPs and MPs, because it simply in the given circumstances, given where our public finances are, does not reflect, because it does not reflect, some great ideology. He is simply trying, within the means available, in the existing framework of the right, to distribute these funds in the most fair way possible, with some of the priorities that I will explain, with one reasonable fiscal policy that we talked about as much as two weeks ago. I would just like to briefly explain three things: firstly, the economic framework in which this budget is being developed; secondly, key figures of this budget and finally several illustrations of key figures and key programmes. I'm sure some of my colleagues, especially agrarian colleagues, from agriculture, will want to explain their division as well. But before I move on to those three points, I would like to say that this budget, in line with the Law on the Budgetary System that you voted in February of this year, is further progress in the methodology of preparation, voting, and hence the control of the public finances of the Republic of Serbia. For what? Firstly, I can say that there have been a lot of comments at the moment that this Budgetary System Act was voted on, it provides for a rather pedantic procedure or a procedure for preparing the vote of this budget. I watched the calendar, this is one of the very early budgets, today is December 12th, and already in this house is talking and preparing to adopt the budget for next year. That's good, because in this way, by adopting this key law, you will allow local self-governments to timely vote their budgets not to go into temporary funding that is never good, and you will also allow our economies and our citizens to get clear signals for further economic development of our country. Also, this budget is precise in the sense that, as you can see, it is proposed to you at the level of the third decimal of internationally adopted classification of budget expenditure. Thanks to this, each budgetary user and its division has been developed into at least five, in some cases and 15 items, so it is possible to reach the level of one budget, one country, to the level of reasoning, up to several million and several dozen million dinars, so that discussion and control is possible at that stage. According to the Budgetary System Act, at the moment this House adopts such a budget, the budget is no longer a sack, the executive power can no longer transfer, not only large items to the second item, but also within the budget user's division it is not possible to move large sums of money from one position to another. Thus, such a budget is bound by it as no other budget since World War II has obliged the executive authority to execute it in the way it was designated and voted by the National Assembly. In the event of a derogation, as was the case at the previous point of this agenda, we as executive authority in accordance with the Budgetary System Act will be obliged to return to this house to vote rebalancing and those positions. It is, as you can see, a degree of control over the executive authority that did not exist in our country and that is one degree and the quality of parliamentaryism and democracy, and this is what we want to further strengthen. Also, this budget is comprehensive in two key ways. First, if you look at the whole document, you'll see that again, according to the Budget System Act, it doesn't come alone. It comes with the financial plans of a mandatory social security organisation, because just until this moment, the budgets of these social organisations, which are actually larger than the budget itself, if we include those grants that the Republic of Serbia's budget is now giving them on these expenditures, only the government, and after some voting on the boards of these organisations, gave consent without having considered this home, nor had it had similar information about these huge funds, about these huge amounts of money. Of course, when you see those 261.5 billion dinars, which is the budget of the Republic of Serbia, this time you can see, because according to the Budgetary System Act, your consent will be required through this vote on these financial plans that are given in advance, and not during the year, for these key elements, for those organisations that are of paramount importance to our citizens. For the first time, the National Assembly of Serbia, when voting the budget, can look at the whole picture of public finances, see what the revenues are and what the expenditures are proposed and for the organisations of compulsory social security. That way, instead of just one part of public finances, this home can look at the entire picture of our public finances. If you add the budget, or budgets, the financial plans of mandatory social security organisations, you come up to four fifths of all public expenditures of the Republic of Serbia and then we are left with only today's Federation that will fit, if the constitutional charter is adopted according to that mold that is now scheduled and thus we come to the 538 billion dinars of public expenditures proposed for next year. In this way, this budget is comprehensive and enables even more comprehensive and comprehensive insight into public finances by the National Assembly. Finally, if we look at this budget, it also allows, if I may, one transition to that first part of my exposure, to put this budget and these public finances in the context and in the perspective of our country's economic situation and its environment. Therefore, this is the first budget that has been proposed to you with a memorandum on budget and economic and fiscal policy for 2003 and the next two years. We can all debate together and talk about it, not just what expenditures are scheduled for next year's budget, but maybe ask some new questions. What about the system of public finances, where our public expenditures go, how much we spend on the total amount and how we think this is done, and given the overall economic situation of our country and what structural policy is proposed here. By the way, I expect on behalf of the government that the quality of the discussion will be so much better this year. Of course, that's what I'd like to say right now, the economic situation in our country is such that no one can be completely satisfied with it. Two key things, I don't want to paraphrase again what the Prime Minister just said, but two key items determine in many ways what can be done in public finances. The first element, you can't step away from it and don't see in it any more of what they did in the former regime, but the fact that when a country planted that had 3,000 dollars of gross national income per capita in 1989, i.e. $28.9 billion in gross national income, and when you find and take over the country's management at a time when it has $1,000 per capita in 2000, it's three times as poor as it was. And industrial production is only half of what it was 10 years ago and it is clear that from this hole that has been dug for 10 years, from this hopelessness, given how much this failure was, it cannot without having a profound effect on what a single country's infrastructure is, not only physically, in terms of roads, energy, but also what the institutions of a single system -- health system, compulsory insurance, education, everything that needs to be, not to mention culture, life in a normal medium-developed European country. Unfortunately, at that level of money, at that level of funding, it can't just be provided. The second element is the element of demographics. He is in front of you and before us today, because if our country had more young people in the proportion of its population, if there were more active and if there were no migration and these waves, and especially young people who today would create and manage, pay taxes and social contributions, those 200, 300, 350, no one knows the exact number, we would have a much better demographic picture and we wouldn't have to propose today a prized home budget proposal where nearly a billion euros are foreseen to replace the lack of funding in the pension system. But that's our reality, and that's why this is the budget that should allow us to re-establish healthy development bases, macroeconomic stability, preserve what is necessary solidarity between us, so that no layer of our population can think that he is the very loser in this exhaustive transition process. Such an economic situation is expressed in several figures. Of course, when we say that in 2001, the real growth of our economy was 5.5% and that it will reach 4% this year, and that for the next year we predict another 5%, as much as it will be in the next two years, we can say that it will be the fastest economic growth foreseen in Europe. Various countries in the environment predict between 2-4%, the most Croatia with 4.8% and we can say - here we are, Serbia that has the fastest growth in Europe, but of course we remember those first sentences and what the prime minister said, we are starting from quite low branches and we need 10, 15, 20 years of very fast economic growth to be a medium-developed and happy country again. However, thanks to the economic growth that has taken place, stabilising opportunities and revaluation of the dinars, we have made significant progress in gross national income per capita. With that thousand dollars in 2000, we climbed to $1,300 per capita in 2001 to reach about $1,800 per capita this year and predict $2,150 per capita next year, in 2003. We will succeed at a very fast pace if we continue this responsible path, to get rid of the very European bottom, where we were in 2000, when Serbia was with Moldova the poorest country on our continent, poorer than Albania, than Bosnia, from Macedonia, without talking about Bulgaria and Romania. We are now already reaching the level of our neighbours with these figures; of course, the road will still be long until we reach some other countries, such as Hungary, Poland and those that will enter the European Union in May 2004. But this is a very fast progress, which was made possible only because it was being led, firstly, by a responsible policy, without lies and demagogy, but also by the fact that our economy, our citizens responded positively to it and more to do so, brought out a higher degree of financial discipline, worked more, made better products and services, and therefore our exports this year, despite many unbelievable Tomes who said that these projections had nothing to do with what would be real life, increased. So this year, Serbia will have an export increase of 17 per cent to 18 per cent, and Vojvodina will have as much as 26 per cent to 27 per cent. That's good. At the same time, inflation, which is the chronic pain of our country, and which is always somehow chosen as a mechanism for overcoming some social tensions, I hope that this will no longer be in our country, fell from 113% in 2000 to 40.6% in 2001, to reach 16% this year instead of the planned 20%. Therefore, the target inflation for the next year for the first time in the 1990s was one-digit inflation in 1997, in many cases specific years due to the sale of Telekom in the circumstances we know -- we predict 9%. That's good. It is a year earlier than what was planned, so in one perspective three to four years we can expect our country to have one normal inflation, not two or three percent, because it would already be a deflation, but between five and ten percent in the years to come. Does this mean that the economic situation is great? No, I don't. We still have big problems of liquidity in our economy and I also want to point out here what was and how important it is when preparing this budget, which is the fact that the deficit of our country's balance of payments, not in technical terms, is as much higher as we pay abroad, and if we get it, when not only the trade balance is put in, but all those other financial balances. We will reach 13.6% of the balance of payments in proportion to our gross national product this year. It's not good and we have to fall somewhere between seven and eight percent, but there's one thing behind it all, and that's that spending, especially the growth of consumption in our country, is at one reasonable level. The consumption has grown a lot this year, and secondly, we need to boost the competitiveness of our economy, especially in that export part. Because of this consumption, it is very important that wage growth, from those living from budgets, in public enterprises and beyond, growth is moderate and adapted to the economic growth of our country. Which means that in real terms, it can't go faster than projected 5% of real growth. So much for the economic situation. You know the key figures of this moment because you've looked at the budget, just to point out that this year's first year is the beginning of a reduction in the participation of public spending in our gross national income. In the aggregate and at a consolidated level, we expect a reduction from 48.4 per cent of the public consumption rate in our country's consolidated sense, to 47.6 and this budget of the Republic of Serbia, its participation in gross national income falls from 21.6 per cent to 21.3 per cent of gross national income. That's good. We must endure on this path to be able to continue to relieve the income side of our citizens and our economy, and to be able to continue to comply with what the law requires on the dispensary side. I wouldn't have been around for long. Our tax system, given that tax reform you voted last week, shows that the tax system continues to rely on two tax forms. Transport and excise tax on the one hand and income tax on citizens on the other. It's not a tax system of some highly developed country. He is the tax system of a country in transition, where, as you voted, we are trying to reduce some other fiscal forms, especially as a corporate profit tax, to a minimum, so as to speed up investment. So the estimated 214.6 billion dinars reflect those 10 billion dinars of revenue cuts you decided on last week. At the same time, many should announce that we are considering a possible additional reduction in the tax on financial transactions, but at the same time to raise to a reasonable extent excise duties on oil products without raising prices for consumers, not diesels, not derivatives. On the contrary, that's what the Prime Minister was talking about, I'd just like to give a few key figures. Out of the total 261.5 billion dinars, as many as 67.6 billion dinars are expected to go as a donation to social insurance organisations. You'll see one interesting fact, which is that only implementing that system costs two billion dinars in the PIO fund, two billion dinars in health and a billion dinars in the labour market. All in all, the cost of implementing that system, the wages, contributions, investments, the information network, just to enforce some rights, costs our country five billion. I think it's too much if we look at our network that needs to be provided, and I'm not talking about hospitals here, I'm talking about buildings, offices, everyone who works for the Republic Health Insurance Office. I see here the possibility of rationalization, I see this possibility and for further savings, because around these expenditures one thing must be clear. In order to ensure a reduction in the share of public expenditure in gross national income, we as a country must also be careful of what every dinar is spent on. Therefore, if the next year will be on the receiving side of the fight against the grey economy and thanks to the vote you had two weeks ago in this esteemed home we have a base for fiscal cash registers, we also have a base for a much more efficient tax administration, the second, perhaps more important part of that story remains, and that is the rationalisation of public expenditures. Here we have, under one, the rationalization of federal and republican administrations; and you can see for yourself how much resistance there is. We have to insist on saving a few billion dinars. Of course, contributions from Montenegro with 50m euros to finance joint bodies in that form. Also, the networks of our control functions, the networks of all law enforcement organisations, which are the armatures of our country, we must all have an equally serious approach that will mark, and I'm sure next year. So much for key numbers. I would just like to inform the National Assembly and a few key items. What are the key items in this budget? We talked a lot about one thing, which is, in order to pay off pensions on time in legally harmonised amounts, donations from the budget will be 55.8 billion dinars. Out of three dinars, one comes from the solidarity of other citizens. That's good. Take no comparison of a Singapore, a comparison of a Bulgarian, where the salaries are about the same level as ours or rather, the salaries are in ours, and they were two times smaller, two years ago they were at the level of Bulgaria, and even for something small and larger. Their pensions are half ours, instead of 115 euros, as they are now on average, with 55 euros. I can say that I am proud to be a member of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and of a country that shows such a degree of solidarity, which is almost a billion euros from the budget. We must be aware of what this effort is, because solidarity from those who are active towards inactive older citizens must be the follow-up and solidarity of those older towards those young people, so that they too need to leave enough room in the budget to be able to reach the necessary resources. This budget has a very strong social function, support for families with children, payment of children's allowances, combat and disability protection, funds for refugees, all of this is foreseen in a much larger amount. As far as salary is concerned, it's the second largest item in this budget with 62.2 billion dinars. In those salaries, we've been suggesting for two years that healthcare, education and the judiciary have priority. If you look, for example, at the salary of a teacher with a secondary degree of professional training, his salary was in January 2001 5,780dinara and that's homogeneous, we included a warm meal and that part of the regression that belongs there. In November this year, the salary is 14,165 dinars, which is two and a half times higher by two years, and we know that the cost of life has increased by 50%. So our teachers, our doctors, our nurses, our judges and those who work in courts clearly had a priority and other budget users' salaries didn't go at that rate. A differentiation was made, because the simple basis was not the same. We found public services on a beggar stick. They were social cases. Today they are not and it is good for all our citizens. I would also like to point out that in the agrarian budget, which will surely be more said, what is promised is regularly paid, the wheat is redeemed within a deadline, not with the printed money, but from the real amount and without devaluation. We also have novelties. Sunflower premiums, soybean premiums and therefore we can expect the price of edible oil to continue its decline and that will be good for the standard of our citizens' lives, thanks to this engagement of our budget and many other countries on the side. Also, in the poverty of funds, it was still found for the following elements: 18 billion dinars are foreseen for traffic infrastructure, and that, eight billion road dinars and 10 billion for the ZTP. It's very close, it's true, and it's literally going to force a large company of ZTP into a deep restructuring. I want to say that unlike what we've had so far, which is that the employees of the ZTP waited for the money to come out of the budget of every 15th, now that thing has to change and be completely different, that the money that's supposed to be for suppliers, for the repairs, and that the ZTP is once again what it should never have stopped being, a company that at least from its own income has to provide the pay fund. That's what we expect next year. You'll notice, this year, and that's the third budget, there's almost no subsidies to the EPS. So that painful part, the very painful part of the story that was an increase in the price of electricity, now we see that effect, that it was necessary to finance from the budget, is no longer present. That's how we see the EPS step-on-step. One much larger item in this budget is debt payments, even 24.2 billion dinars. What do we got here? The biggest item, which is the payment of old foreign savings, because there are a lot of questions about it, the start of the loan payment for Serbia's rebirth. The corresponding law has been passed on to the National Assembly and as soon as and if it is voted in this House, we will begin to repay that debt. Finally, we will have more elements and here by the end of the year to prepare a large debt to the pensioners within three years, from 2003 to 2005, and by the end of the year we will give technical precision in that domain. There's old foreign savings, and that's one big expense. This includes the debts of the "Yugoscanka" and "Dafiment Bank", but also the payment of 9.2 billion dinars per foreign loan. It's the price of getting new loans and we need to be responsible for the capital market to continue to be supported. Finally, if we look at some other elements, it's 7.5 billion to take care of workers in the restructuring process and what's a much larger figure than in previous years, even 5 billion dinars for the labour market from the budget. It's that it wouldn't have happened to us, as it has been these years, if we hadn't made a move here, and that's one of the few places where we haven't made great progress, we keep paying off the benefits on the labour market on a regular basis. Also, there's more money for active measures to hire our fellow citizens. As for health care, the key question, and I was talking about wages, I mean, it's never been a better supply of drugs, and that's how it's gonna go on. There are two new items, as many as 1.5 billion dinars to buy equipment, three times more than this year, and that means anticancer appliances, which means equipping many very important objects in our country. I think it's the last category in our society that hasn't almost been recognised in our public finances, 1.6 billion dinars for refugee health insurance. They were not present in our budget, so if they came to the health care facility to receive them, wrote afterwards to the Health Fund, which would be delivered to the ministry, and the ministry would say, we're sorry, we don't have a corresponding position in the budget. I can say that there have been a lot of not only debt, but also anxiety for our citizens who unfortunately have been refugees until today. In this way we clearly say that no one is a citizen of the second order in our country and we can't wait for them to become distributors, to invest in that fund. Meanwhile, there are plenty of places in this budget and there is enough solidarity in our country to reconcile their health needs. The judiciary has received a budget that is at least reduced in this exhaustive budget procedure. If our entire budget is growing by 20% and you see that some items are growing a lot, the judiciary budget is growing as much as 34% and that means that judicial reform is not an empty word for this government. Funds have been provided not only to further improve the material position of employees, but also to some very important repairs. Examples of work in this budget are the means for repairing the Court of Justice and Climateization, which is generally dangerous for the health of those working there. We have the funds: to repair the building in Germany 9, which has been for the prosecution and the judiciary since 1998; and also, as soon as at the federal level or at the republic through which Sunday it is voted, for the equipment and for the prosecution and the judiciary, for the provision of funds to combat organised crime. All in all, we have real money and funding for a very important reform of the judiciary. The last thing I want to say is that we have a few innovations. You will notice that two institutions are foreseen in this budget. One guarantee fund for the lending of small and medium-sized enterprises is provided for 500 million dinars for its capitalisation and as much money for capitalisation and for the guarantee fund for residential loans. However, to activate these funds from the budget, we expect this House to pass appropriate laws. In all, you have before you the third budget of the Republic of Serbia that we have proposed to this home. It is in a direct line and does not deviate from the priorities set out at the very beginning of the government's mandate. Priorities for those living from the budget remain clear: health care, education, justice. We have as much as possible all resources to promote the repair of our infrastructure, the training of our institutions, and also this budget more than any other budget in Southeast Europe, exhibits an extremely high degree of solidarity between layers, between regions and those parts of the economy that are not going well, thanks to those who have something better. All in all, we have completed this law with some additional explanations and we will add if it needs some MPs and MPs, as we have prepared the third final bill for 2001, which you will receive today. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, for all these reasons, I urge you to vote for this budget, because it will allow Serbia to continue to make gradual progress and to remember, over two or three years, these difficult and painful years as years of transformation, conversion and the beginning of a very long period of prosperity in our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24898	Do the rapporteurs of the committees, the Finance Committee, the Legislative Committee want the word? No, I don't. ) Does MP Dragan Rafaelovic, who issued an opinion at the session of the Legislative Committee, want a word? Here you go, five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24899	Dear Presidency, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, honored guests, I have issued an opinion for the first and the most basic reason why I think the projected budget for 2003 is small. He needs to be bigger and he can be bigger. At the same time, the second reason I gave my opinion is the remarks from the committees that each section of the budget is small for a particular area. It is small, but at this point both the government and the Ministry couldn't make it bigger. I will stay at the Ministry of Agriculture and one of the biggest reasons why I am invited to talk about it are discussions of opposition MPs, who were untrue, incorrect and have to be denied here. I've been thinking about how to deny it. By talking about the minister being good, if he thought well, if he wanted good agriculture, I wouldn't have achieved anything. I think it's best with numbers and numbers, that's what we peasants know best, and they're inexorable. One of the MPs here said the villagers don't know because they'll sell their products. I would remind you that all agricultural prices in livestock are at least twice as high as in 2000. Let's say the price of a hero (yes, it may be funny to you, but the figures speak), in 1999 the ransom price of a hero was also 80, and now it settles to 3 to 3.5 marks. To go on subsidies. Never has any government in Serbia, and the prime minister knows it well, has so many subsidies allocated. Not to mention everything, it is enough to say plums, plant plums, plant vineyards, milk, fertilising material etc.; and of course, what is most important and most commendable - these are planned subsidies for the purchase of land. However, I have to draw attention to the government that without the law on inheritance, which must be passed, we will re-create households that will become non-agricultural, so we will have a situation of 850,000 households that have a country, and only 50,000 households are purely agricultural. So, what about the premiums? Anyone in Serbia who produces a breeding heifer at this time gets 8,000 dinars. If that heifer gives 6,000 liters of milk, again from the government, the Ministry of Agriculture gets 24,000 dinars for that milk premium and when you add it up, you get 32,000 dinars. They're the best-quality throats, they're the biggest premiums and that's over 1,000 marks. Gentlemen, it's easy to check. Those a little less than 3,000 liters were passed with 700 marks and there was a response from a colleague who said the government had given up on agriculture. I ask you, if with such premiums, which are at European level, raise your hands, then I don't know what more she could do. Of course, this is good, but we have another problem, too, the problem of how in these 850,000 households that have land to bring young people back to the country. In one of the previous talks, I drew attention to the prime minister that this government must bring a youth return programme to the country. a comprehensive programme for agriculture. The second success of the Minister of Agriculture is that from his budget, which he was so far small, but was not small because he did not work as his predecessor, he did not share money for the revitalisation of villages in municipalities and districts for friends of municipal powers or for themselves and members of the party in power. We don't know, say, in Obrenovac, who the previous minister handed out the agricultural loans to. I'll try to find out who's who's got the credits, and I know they're split. Why do I think the budget should be bigger and that it could be bigger? The budget of the Republic of Serbia, and above all, I am addressing the finance minister, should be higher by 60 billion. Someone will laugh at that number, but it's real and it's very easy to make it happen. Just to point out that the total agricultural production in Serbia is now less than 50 billion dinars, which is less than a billion euros. And Serbia, there's an old story, it could feed all of Europe, and especially Vojvodina, and that should be triggered. What 10 billion dinars in the agriculture budget would do and what a chain reaction would cause, that only the Minister of Agriculture and we who live on agriculture know. You're going to ask how, how to secure that 60 billion. Simple. Tax bonds in Serbia are separating the money at this time by building the Shkodar on Bojana, financing a country of no use. The 60 billion or billion euros, if the government, ministers and fellow MPs supported the Serbian citizens' proposal to declare Serbia as an independent state in a referendum, would bring that money to the register and I think our country would flourish.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24900	We continue the debate by applying for the word of the president of the parliamentary groups. First, MP Vojislav Seselj signed up, then MP Dragan Markovic, and then MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24901	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, from the Prime Minister we heard a lecture made up of two parts. Serbian Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic tried to explain to us how important it is for the people to take money, so that money will pay state needs. That's not what Djindjic had to explain to us. That's quite clear. It must be taken care of how much money will be taken from citizens, how much citizens can bear and the state needs to adapt to it. When I listened to Prime Minister Djindjic and Minister Djelic, how they are moaning and how sad they are, how hard it is for them to do their job, I came to say, I am so sorry, let's let you go of your troubles, because these torments are really hard not to succumb. Ladies and gentlemen, the government of Zoran Djindjic is again offering a budget with a major deficit. It's not a serious budget, it's not a budget that's appropriate based on views, opinions, theoretical postulates, the most significant economic theorists of the 20th century. Deficitary budget financing is a cancer wound for the country's economy. You have here, firstly, made an unreal amount of budget revenues of 214 billion dinars. You can't charge that much. It could have been this year or last year, the next year it won't be possible, because there'll be a lot less people in a working relationship. The income tax on citizens will be much lower than you imagined here. The company's profit tax will also be lower, as there are fewer companies making profits, profits. Sales tax will also make less and less charge, as you can see that certain economic operators are resourceful and how this sales tax is avoided by different invoices. We're forced by import, not domestic goods. In the case of domestic goods, it is much easier to charge sales taxes, and in the case of imported goods with a fake invoice, the basic profit in the beginning is reduced, so that the sales tax at a very small amount can be charged. Let's assume it's all now and it's possible to charge. This deficit funding is even more unrealistic. You're planning 46.9 billion here, that's almost 47 billion. You can't charge for that. Why? Because you're planning on privatizing more than 15 billion. How are you going to charge 15 billion when you sell sugars for three euros each? It's incriminating. We saw that your eye on Sartide had failed, too. There won't be any big money, because what's most valuable is mostly sold for a bagatel. You're talking about donations, 9.5 billion donations. You won't get any donations, I got word from the London conference. The basic condition for our country to receive donations is to destroy organized crime. Since I am the only one in this country who is determined to destroy organized crime, until I form a new government, there are no donations. What's run out on me, Covic? Djindjic, why did Covic escape earlier? He heard me answer the word and as soon as I'm done, he'll be back. Djindjic let him leave, so he'll be back as soon as I'm done. Loans from international financial institutions amounting to nearly 13 billion are being discussed. And this is quite uncertain. First, there won't be a Labus. He already has some mechanisms there -- this commission, this one, this one. Without Labus, this is hardly possible. When it comes to domestic debt of nine billion, it's absolutely impossible. You're planning on taking credit from the National Bank of Yugoslavia. Well, the National Bank of Yugoslavia is being abolished. The money Dinkic put away, if you make a deal with Dinkic, so he's the governor of the republican National Bank, he might give you something. But given Dinkic's expiry date, the National Bank of Serbia will have to start all over again. You don't know what his expenses were there. You'll grab your head when you see what his overhead costs are at the National Bank of Yugoslavia. I tried to convince you that this is completely irrational, and now you see what you're going to do. It's easy for you to bring in some irrational budget when you know the government won't last long. Within these sums that you've brought out here, I'm going to try patiently now to find you savings, at least 10-20 billion. Someone just said it takes 10 billion subsidies for agriculture. We need health care, we need education, but we need to see where the savings are possible, so we need to change ministers who are incompetent, then new ministers, so we can improve the state of education with those savings, in health care, etc. This is where you predicted 800 million dinars for NGOs. You haven't informed anyone at all what NGOs are and what they're getting money from. Convince us that it is rational to give Natashi Kandić, Sonji Biserko, Biljani Kovacevic-Vuco, who knows how many others there are. (Zoran Djindjic: None of them.) The prime minister has improved, but there are some who get it. What are they? We'll get to the Department of Faith's item. There are no parties in the Ministry of Faith. The Red Cross isn't in the Ministry of Faith. To fund political parties, all right. For funding the Red Cross, all right. Let's see which ones are here within the Ministry of Faith. They're here. Here, the prime minister doesn't know, Zoran Djindjic doesn't know. Now I'm gonna show him that. Furthermore, you predicted in this section - the President of the Republic, for machines and equipment of 90 million dinars. What kind of machines do the President of the Republic need, a combination? Look, for 90 million dinars, three new tanks can be bought. Is that the machine that the president of the Republic needs? When I'm president of the Republic, I don't need any machine. I'll put the whole government in the machine right now and that's it. There's no one to be but you and I, Jinjitsu, know best. You should explain what machines and other equipment the President of Repulika needs in the amount of 90 million dinars. And so far, we've had the President of the Republic, and none of them have driven any machine, no combination, no tractor, nothing. Maybe a brewery in the Republic's presidency to open up. I don't know what you're up to, but explain it to us. Djindjic, you have to explain that. I see in almost every item - services per contract. That was never an item in the budget before. What did you think of these services by contract? (Kedomir Jovanovic: The Hague will not pay.) He's never paid me before. Just now, I hope The Hague starts paying me a little. I hear they pay well. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, services under contract - 8 million dinars. What kind of services does that give to the National Assembly for 8 million dinars? Explain what kind of services these are. Are you paying someone's mind, what's there? So far, the National Assembly has had its experts, its people, its officials, its officials, etc. And she didn't pay any favors of this kind. Then, the Constitutional Court, by contract - half a million. It's not much, but what services does he pay? Judicial authorities, contract favors, 28.5 million dinars. So the judges don't know how to write the verdicts you're looking for, so they have to hire someone on the side and pay. What else is a favor under the court's contract? Serbia's Supreme Court, contracted services, 4,600,000. Come on, maybe this lower court can sometimes hire a court expert, but that's the party's palace, Mr. Jovanovic. The costs of the client's skills are paid, not by contract. Court costs have to be paid, and now there are very large court fees and court fees.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24902	Do you want to use the next 10 minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24903	I'll do it for the next 10 minutes. Senior trade court, contract favors, $2,400,000. The Republic Public Prosecutor's Office, contract service, a million dinars (5.5 million dinars). It's not a big amount of money, but they're paying for it by contract, so let's take a look at it. First, what it is, maybe it really needs a favor. The Republic Public Attorney's Office, contracted services, 2,863,000. District courts, contract favors, 206,912.000 dinars. Are these author's fees, some projects, what is it? Municipal courts, contract favors, 278 million dinars. How is that possible, what is that? Trade courts, contract favors, 24.5 million dinars. District Attorney's Office, contracted services, 1,976,000. Well, something less for them, so there's no one to provide them with favors. Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office, contract services, 4.300,000, Administrative Court, contracted services, 2,400,000. Come on, give us a little clarification of those favors by contract. Appeal courts, contract favors, nine million. What services to the Court of Appeal, who provides that? The government of the Republic of Serbia, contracted services, 28 million, the Communications Bureau, contract services, 4.680,000. What kind of services does he now pay by contract, the baby's gone, what's the Taibiro doing, exist, Djindjic? Justice Department, contract service, 1100,000. Bigger for violations, contract favors, 5,635,000. Municipal authorities for violations, contract services, 14.200,000. A municipal law enforcement body, who gets paid services, what kind of services, what kind of services are these? This isn't material maintenance, this isn't material costs, these are services. Whoever's giving the judge a favor, only if they bring in a prostitute, but I guess that's not paid out of the budget. How else can you do that? (Glass from the O.R.: You're stupid.) So maybe I'm the dumbest person in the world, I agree, it's possible to set such a definition here, and thank the ruling parliamentary majority for honoring me with such an epithet, he's nice to me, but explain this, what is this? Administration for the execution of office sanctions, contract services, 12.083,000. Come on, $12 million, somebody liked the sum, and where did they find this 83,000, what does that mean? Furthermore, the State Department and local self-government, contracted services, 20.5 million. What kind of services is he paying for now? State administration promotion agency, contract service, 2,430,000. I suppose it's also rational, they're going to have to pay for some project, an improvement of state administration, a reorganisation, etc.; not much, 2.5 million, but explain, this is a huge amount. The finance and economy ministry, I can't even watch it, it's Djelic's ministry, the contract service, 94.5 million. We've seen, as we discussed the final bill, what kind of experts he hires-- retired officers of the Institute's profession to do his jobs, instead of his inspectors. The inspectors are getting paid, and these are getting double-money contracts. Donations to NGOs, that's what I was talking about. The co-ordination body of the federal government is 1,378,000,000 for use. I can't talk about Covic now that he's gone; you can't talk about Covic anymore. I have a book coming out tomorrow about Nebojsa Covic, so I don't have to talk anymore. Public procurement office, contract service, eight million. M.O.P., contract favors, $575 million. Have they started paying informants, which are now services, which services are paid by the MUP (a voice from the military secret); no, maybe it's a police secret, it's not a military secret. Security information agency, contract service, 16.5 million. Maybe they'll pay me now, too, because I'm keeping their archives safe, so nice, but you should've increased them a little bit. Dusan Mihajlovic 575 million, and Bia only 16.5 million. (This is the former Ubod, the BIA is now called). Ministry of Agriculture and Water Management, contracted services, 10.5 million. This again, when the birds hunt, someone has to hold his rifle and fill it, so clean the pipe, etc. I don't know what other services are. The Republic Water Directorate, contracted services, 1,800,000. It's no big deal. Ministry of Business and Privatisation, contract service, 120 million dinars. Who, Vlahovic, does so many services make 120 million dinars pay? (Minister Vlahovic, from the post: It is 119,800 million). That's 120, and I have a right to round up, Vlahovic. Ministry of Mining and Energy, contracted services, 2,902,000. Energy efficiency agency, contract service, 22,300,000, that's not much. The Agency for Energy Efficiency, you may think, has never had that in Serbia. The Ministry of Transport and Telecommunications, contracted services, 4,695,000. Then, the Ministry of Urbanism and Construction, services under contract, 29.723,000. What kind of favors are these, Woodchuck? Do you know they're building your 1,500-square-square-square facility on the Zemun key again? You have destroyed everything, and now Gašo Knezevic has served as a link to one company, has Gordana Pop - Lazić all the data, the new facility is rising. And who are you paying favors to, Woodman? Office for Spatial Planning and Urbanism, contracted services, 26 million. The Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Services, since it is the Ministry of Services, let me see how many services they pay by contract: 13.5 million. Republic Stock Reserve Directorate, Contract Service, 200,000. It's no big deal, and they can pay for a favor. The Ministry of Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs, the contract service, 50 million, the Ministry of Economic Relations pays the services to someone, who? (A voice from the O.R.: What about travel expenses? I haven’t made it to travel expenses yet, so don’t hold me back, since I won’t have time to talk about travel expenses. When I was vice president of the Serbian government for two and a half years, I never charged travel expenses from the government, ever. Maybe once it happened to me when I went to Kosovo. I never charged. I didn't sleep outside Belgrade, go on a trip, come back (Pal Shandor, from the O.R.: You shouldn't have slept). I'm awake day and night, Shandor, so nothing's going on with me. The foreign investment agency and promotion of exports, contract services, 2.700,000, is not a big deal. Ministry of Labour and Employment, let's see this working leader, worker's oath, Dragan Milovanovic, 23300,000, service per contract. The workers start strike now, they go out on the street again, over. Next, the Department of Social Affairs, contracted services, 34 million dinars. And over here, late social aid, late this, late on what, for the disabled, for the fighters, for this or that, and 34 million are favors under contract. Let's see how the Minister explains it. Next, social aid to the endangered population, that's the department, the contract service, 39.5 million. Contracting services, social protection for unskilled, second place, almost four million dinars. Let me get this straight. Ministry of Science, Technology and Development, contract service, 200 million dinars. Is this Italians for those reviews of scientific projects, what is it? Come on, hurry up this book, I'm not free of sales taxes yet, nor this "Ideology of Serbian Nationalism", nor Cane - Frog, and I'm taking this on Covic tomorrow for release. Information and Internet Service, contract service, 19 million dinars. Maybe it's not big at this office, they're dealing with it, it's the nature of their work, but the Ministry of Education and Sports, here's Gaša Knezevic here, 285 million dinars of service per contract. And you know Gash, you know Gash and what he does with that money, there's nothing to say about Gashi the Prince. (President: I warn you of overstepping allowed time. ) Here, I finish; basic education, services under contract 296 million. There's still your secondary education, your student stander, all the services per contract, more university education, student standard, all the services per contract. Someone here, the state's money, is crumbling on the services of various kinds. It's the government. I have more of that data here, I guess I can't say everything, but this is enough to prove to you that this budget is completely unserious, that this budget is wasteful, that many ministers here are ruthlessly wasting state money, and most of all, Gašo Knezevic, the investigation will determine what it's all ruined, there's no doubt, nothing can be hidden. Explain this, these items in Serbia's budgets have never existed before.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24904	The word has a finance and economy minister, Mr Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24905	I've been listening to Mr. Seselj for a few days now, and I can see he's having a pretty hard time with budget accounting, but no one can specialize in everything. To clarify some things, first of all, the idea that the state is hiring some people by contract is good, because that way we're going to limit the number of officials, so people who are going to be constantly employed, and so we're going to reduce the number of permanent administrations. The other thing, of course, is, if you look at the divisions, I've listened to that litany, of course, as far as courts are concerned, there's a skill, there's a situation where people want to get to justice, but they don't have the money, then the court orders them a lawyer to defend them, and at that point, someone has to pay for it. I can say that one of the problems in the last two years is that the courts didn't have enough money and they came up with one big debt to lawyers and they didn't pay very well afterwards, the tax, but this time we admit that thing. If you look at, of course, the biggest division in all of this, it's nothing but, if you look at specialized services, these things are of course for science and all those contracts they have, which the ministry then concludes with these scientific institutions. It's the way it's funded so we don't have another whole class of functioners. Of course, as I said at the beginning of this presentation, this is one of Serbia's most precise budgets. He goes to the third decimal, in this way he is able to get this esteemed home and MPs to get this information, and not as before and when the budgets voted, when Mr. Seselj was vice president, the wages and the rest, and the rest, considering that the budget would be voted in a few hours and the final bill in a few minutes, of course they never talked about it. So this is much better, because now we can talk and bring details about all the items that are mentioned, but of course far from wastefulness, this is a very precise and transparent budget in which this esteemed home has as full insight as our citizens. Thank you. (Vojislav Seselj, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24906	You have no right to a replica, no offense, you would have the right to be offended by Article 97. Rules of Procedure, he said you're not a specialist, you can't be. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place, according to the Rules of Procedure!) He insulted me. It's the Rules of Procedure! Are you giving me the Rules of Procedure? ) The word has a National MP Dragan Markovic. I gave my word to Parliamentarian Dragan Markovic, and I have already given my word to the MP. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: Do you give me according to the Rules of Procedure? After the presentation, then the minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24907	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the Ministers, Mr. Prime Minister, listening to your presentation and presentation of Minister Djelic, you brought me back in two years to remind me of what you were saying in 1998 and 1999. Looks like you forgot what you were saying. You speak as if you are an opposition today, you speak of a difficult situation in Serbia, and we know that. Today, you have only identified the situation in which the citizens of Serbia are located. As far as the draft budget is concerned, we in the USSR are going to be against this budget and most likely the opposition, but you're going to rebalance the budget as twice this year, always make up for what you want and some items you didn't plan now. That's what I'm looking at in-house. One family when planning a budget, Mr. Minister Djelic, you as an expert know, she says - this is foreign income and foreign expenditure. What's the side of the income? Foreign income in your budget is donations, and I can't make donations to be foreign income. Donations, how many donations came to Serbia, we didn't get it bad, you can't sell it, it can't be foreign income. If you don't respect everything the international community requires of you, tomorrow they'll wrap up your tap and we won't be getting any more donations. The other thing, from foreign loans, wait for ministers, it would be the same if someone in the factory sold the machine and sent the workers to go to winter. You, when you take credit, you have to push it into production, increase production, and that way fill the budget. Third thing, you're planning on filling the budget from the factories you sold. How many factories do you think you're gonna sell like you've sold so far and what about the extra labor force that lost her job? You have just threatened a gray economy and it is not a problem if the gray economy includes those who smuggle large quantities of oil, cigarettes, alcohol imports into Serbia. But for you, it's a gray economy that's in flea markets, those who have lost their jobs and who you promised to cheat on them at work, and you don't get them back to work, but now you're ordering the fiscal registers to buy every businessman, everyone who has S.T.R., everyone who has some service work, etc. You forgot when you ordered all private entrepreneurs to close their stores on October 4, 2000, to close and strike against the former ruling party. Now, how can these people fight against you, if you don't listen to some experienced businessmen in this room or businessmen in Serbia, the word of those who have done something in life, when they say -- stop, Mr. Djelic, you can't fill the budget. (A voice from the O.R.: "What's coal?" ) Coal is at an old price for you. Next, you say, gentlemen, you've increased exports. Who are you talking to? You have increased imports, increased imports and there are some various agencies, various agents who allegedly are promoting exports from Serbia. Look, here, specifically, 10 days ago you opened the Mercator store, 10,000 squares in Belgrade, and you forgot that you closed all of Belgrade's department stores in Serbia, did you forget that, Mr Djelic, is that the result for you? How many goods, it's a premium, yes, it's a premium for you, but for those who work and who were employed, it's not a premium. The Soviet Union has an objection when it comes to NGOs, ladies and gentlemen, 88% is increasing the budget for NGOs. I guess Natasa Kandic became expensive, her term on RTS despite us paying RTS, and you have to pay when she comes to RTS, to talk about Serbs being war criminals, is that why it takes 88% to stand out for NGOs? When it comes to agriculture, I see this gentleman, he was last year when he started hunting, here he comes now, his face white, his sun hasn't caught him, which means the field wasn't at all and watch what he's suggesting in the budget. The Minister of Agriculture, the one sitting here, has a nice haircut unlike me, watch out, he says: the item for agriculture is only 3.2%, watch out for 3.2% of agriculture entering the budget, the farm you swore to in the election campaign before and today. Be careful, these only 3.2%, Mr. Minister of Agriculture, you suggest that it be divided into the following items: the work of the expert advice on livestock farming, two million dinars; what is it, the peasant does not need expert advice on livestock farming; every farmer who guards cattle is a very good doctor and expert; further, professional agricultural services, ladies and gentlemen, 120 million dinars. Laugh, ma'am, laugh. Dinara 120 million for professional agricultural services. What are these -- professional agricultural services and where that money goes? A farm land arrangement, I live in the country, 93 million dinars. What's that? It's a farm plot. Is the rash a road by the field, is it for you to arrange agricultural land or something else? You'll explain it. Next, you have another item -- the promotion measures in cattle farming of 150 million dinars. What are the promotion measures in livestock? The education of agricultural producers, to tell them? If you don't know how to distinguish a bull from a cow, the peasants know, that's an education for a peasant. Furthermore, I sent a letter to the Prime Minister, Zoran Djindjic; we demand that as an unmistakable commitment enter this section which is related to agriculture for those agricultural producers who have handed over the sugar tail from Kruševac to Pogorec, and has not been paid to them. I didn't get the answer, but hopefully, Mr. Zoran Djindjic, you'll accept my amendment because it's a small number for you, and it's a big number for agricultural producers. The total figure is 45,379,000 dinars or 4,400 producers, at 150 buy-in stations in Serbia. Well, on behalf of those people who are threatening to block the roads and I'm making a similar request for you; here they are now listening and watching, seeing and hearing and expecting you to accept this amendment of mine, since your agriculture minister has no hearing. Furthermore, Mr. Agriculture Minister, you forgot to hold a champagne conference, and you remembered to list these items that are not clear for agricultural producers - which is the price of cereals, Mr. Minister. It was a set a month ago. What's the price? You forgot, Minister of Agriculture, to explain to the peasants where the Japanese tractors arrived in Serbia. No tractor has come to Kragujevac, not to Jagodin, not to Despotovac, not to Čupri, not to Razanj. None. I don't know where your tractors are. Where's the oil that came as a donation? Oil came to Serbia, and you reportedly said you'd sell 16 dinars, but I didn't meet any agricultural producer that told me he got that 16 dinar-regreed oil when you said it publicly through your media. When it comes to the item, I'm sorry, and I forgot this, importing meat, you made meat directly to the farmers, and at the same time the price of live cattle fell on the market. You did it yourself. When it comes to health care and health care, Minister Djelic explains to health workers, those who came from Nis to Belgrade that their salary will be raised by 10%. That's what I said this morning, but you weren't there. He says -- what, here's 10%, is going to be five minutes, and in the next speech, inflation is going to be 9% this year, right, which means that you've only raised 1% of your salary to educational and health workers and to those who work in public enterprises. Right? And you forgot that you've increased the electricity price by 1,500%, those who enter the red, Mr. Minister. You don't pay for electricity, it's easy for you. You sleep at your aunt's house, you live at your aunt's house, and your aunt's pay, but as the citizens pay, where the citizens will pay. You say, Mr. Minister, that the salary of educators was 5,700, and that today is 15,000. Mr. Minister, today's teacher's salary is 11,000, and even if you increase 20%, it's going to be 13,000 again; so that's a little bit. That's small, and you don't give them 10%. You say the ZTP has to work alone, to create itself. Well, ZTP is a service company, Mr. Minister. The ZTP can only work when you provide the production, when you give them the goods to get into the wagons, and then the ZTP can work... Chedomir, businessman of Chedomir, allow me to explain to the minister. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24908	National MP, do you want to use the next 10 minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24909	Well, he's an incompetent minister...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24910	National MP, do you want to use the next 10 minutes? You used the first 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24911	Here's some more and I'm done.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24912	It can't go on. You've gone too far. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24913	I'll extend, or I won't, I'll take care of it. Maybe the Minister of Agriculture will say something clever about agricultural producers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24914	Save it. (In the meantime, MP Vojislav Seselj advertises the Rules of Procedure. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, but I warn you that you cannot use the right to reply using the application for breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24915	Infringement of Article 97. The Rules of Procedure which he says - if the People's MP in his presentation, and this also applies to the Minister, at the meeting of the National Assembly, is offensive to the People's MP. Djelic spoke offensively of me because he said I did not understand accounting.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24916	He said you weren't a specialist and as far as I know, you weren't.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24917	No, he mentioned me twice, for the first time he said I didn't understand myself, and then after that, he said I wasn't a specialist and I couldn't understand everything. (President: Of course. That's very offensive to me. Because of all the things I understand best about accounting and financial affairs. [[Laughter]] Secondly, it's...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24918	Now, is that the advertising of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24919	No, I have three minutes to explain how you broke the Rules of Procedure and don't interrupt me. Let me explain how you violated the Rules of Procedure, and the Administrative Committee declares that... That's the way of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24920	First I plead. First, I'm obliged to plead.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24921	You plead when I'm done, but don't interrupt me. Because, you see, I know better about financial affairs than many people here, much better than Djelic, and that's why it's offensive to me. Because he explains to us here that it's better for the government to hire people on the side of the contract without hiring. If that were the principle for all of Serbia, then a working relationship would be abolished and people would only be engaged under contract and no contributions, taxes and the like would be paid, just a little under the contract on the part that pays. And here, let the public now assess who understands himself better in financial affairs, and you now apologize to me, I was entitled to a replica and I expect your apology.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24922	You had no right to a replica. The decision by Article 97 shall be made by the President of the National Assembly in the cases in which you have quoted it. I haven't heard of you as a financial expert, and I don't know that. I'm sorry, maybe I'm not familiar with the facts. Here's a word from Minister Bozidar Djelic. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24923	Well, I wouldn't say much, but to issue bonds without providing funds for them to be serviced, I don't know if it's really qualified for some financial expert; well, okay. We see what the effects were and what the budgets were in some years, and what they were in other years. Let the public and our citizens judge about it. I'd like to answer a few questions asked by Mr. Palma (votes - that Palma)... And Palm, so it's official. Okay, Mr. Markovic. Because I'd say there was... [[Laughter]] I couldn't agree with everything that was said, but there seems to be one thing that's important to point out. That's -- that's how this deficit is financed. This is another speaker asked, and indeed one of the criteria of the quality of a budget must be - whether the funds to cover that budget deficit are secured, and on the other hand, for whatever that money is for. Of course, if we look at the issue of financing the deficit, it is important to note that this year we finance the deficit without speeding up inflation, rather than reducing inflation, instead of 20% of inflation will be 16%. He was and will be 4% of gross national income this year. For next year, we predict a reduction, so nominally that deficit is growing in dinars but its participation in gross national income is falling. It's a minor effort for our economy to cover it. If you look at it, and that was already mentioned in the last discussion, which is the means that are designed to cover that deficit, we're very clearly showing them here. As far as borrowing from international financial organisations is concerned, we only have two sources that are extremely favourable. The world's biggest bank. Here we have specific loans that are at 20 years, at six years and at zero interest, only one administrative cost is paid every year. Almost the same conditions are given by the European Union. It's a loan with a huge part of the gift because it's not market-based. That's good. I can say that the entire amount is secured, only in case there are major fractures in this country will we not get those funds. Our entire program is secured by that. As far as donations are concerned, half of these donations are provided by the European Union's macro-financial support. I can say that getting these funds is conditioned, but only by measures of economic policy, and that means by further strengthening as we have done so far, public finances. As far as privatisation is concerned, we have clear sources, a lot of things that are already in the form of tenders and initiated, so we are confident that we will provide these funds. As far as NBJ is concerned. Serbia, it will not be the only one for borrowing, in a very modest amount, look at it not exceeding 0.6% of our gross national income, it is much less than in other countries in the environment. It must remain at that level until there is a wider remonetisation of our economy, until the monetary mass towards our gross national income increases. We have three sources here. It is the National Bank of Serbia tomorrow, the business banks and the same, which will be the novelty next year, which is the issue of the bonds of the Serbian vault. In this way, we will allow our citizens, our banks and our businesses to be in debt, to lend them and to buy those bonds. It will be the backbone of the development of our capital market. There's one more thing I'd like to say, and that's one thought that one predecessor said, and it seems to me it's quite profoundly correct. That is, the funds derived from privatisation or debt, the sound logic of public finances is that these funds do not go into current consumption. Take a look at the structure of this budget and you'll see one thing, which at each point is another criterion of a healthy budget, which is that from the current incomes of taxes and contributions all current expenditures are financed. You'll see that in this budget if we have that 40th and slightly less billions of dinars that are for financing our deficit, you'll see that we have about that kind of expenditure on the bulk side, whether it's for financing the transition, the transition fund, the infrastructure, the economic subsidy. These are all items that are given to finance from these sources, because they are investments and they are something that does not have to be financed permanently. I can say that on that criterion and on that exam Serbia goes much better than many other countries in the environment, I wouldn't give names, but in any case, look at this budget, all current expenditures are wages, pensions, social benefits and all of what is minimal to the normal functioning of our country, all of which we finance from current incomes. In this way, we cannot be blackmailed, nor must we depend on some foreign loans or donations to what is normal functioning of our country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24924	Thank you. Minister of Social Affairs Gordana Matkovic spoke. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24925	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd just like to explain what the Department of Social Affairs is about. When it comes to grants to NGOs, they exist as a two-seat item within the budget. This first refers to all the financing of the fighting associations, whether of course it is a disability-fighting association and that is the item foreseen for the next year of 28 million. The second is the donation to NGOs involved in association with blind, paraplegic, deaf associations, which are practically together with the funds collected through gambling, something that is intended for these organisations by law, and there are very detailed reports on what these funds are and how much and to whom they are referred. Believe me, it's probably the only organizations in this country that know that they're the assets of all citizens and that these are the funds that are meant for them and that are very precise in controlling how the funds have been spent. When it comes to services under contract, there are two groups of these services within the Ministry of Social Affairs. The 39 million figure in social assistance to the endangered population is unclassified elsewhere. You'll see there's only 11 million in the budget. This refers to the financing of these services in homes and centres for social work, and in homes users are partly paying for their stay. There's 27 million from their own resources. It's an out-of-age asset. It's not budget funds. Of course, you will see that under that article, contract services, inputs and printed materials and costs for people who perfect themselves, for seminars. When it comes to our ministry, most of these services are paid to people in the information system, which when a right is restored and we have 400,000 new people who need to be entered, then of course they have to be additionally hired by operators who have to enter that data into the information system. Otherwise, of course, we're ready in detail, when it comes to last year, to explain those items. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24926	The word has a minister of science and technology, Mr Dragan Domazet, and then a minister of education, Mr. Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24927	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to explain to the MPs who have asked questions about service costs. The item serves to finance activities in the ministry's jurisdiction. This year, for example, we funded a study from that item that just the other day appeared, which is "The Strategy of Economic Development by 2010", which is two books. Also, three books, identified 55 Serbian development programmes. We're going to do a promotion and we're going to conduct consultations and a public presentation. It's something a vision of Serbia's development is being made for. As for next year, one of the most large items is the financing of software purchase for all state authorities in Serbia. As you know, with a strategic contract with Microsoft, the Serbian government has purchased 30,000 licenses for computers used by the state administration. Under the contract there are 50,000 licences for educational institutions, scientific institutions, libraries. So that's one huge number of software licenses and that's what's being implemented right now in all these organs. The arrangement is much more favourable than being bought legally, and we think that's how this is very well spent money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24928	I thank the minister. The word has a minister of education and sports, Mr. Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24929	The occurrence of services under contract as one budget item is a matter of classification, i.e. nomenclature. In any case, contract services also include work contracts, work contracts that we provide, or supply to the ministry of some professional specialised services, thus avoiding the employment of professional and specialised people. That's one or two percent of this amount. I remind all those present that services under contract, and that knows the person who called us, that these services under contract include the problem, i.e. education, schooling, training of employees. My ministry has 85,000 professors, so employees and contracted services are actually development programs of the Ministry of Education. If we want to change the system of education, then we need to give further education to teachers and teachers. Let's say, at the beginning of next year, we're going to educate 4.5 thousand teachers, but that's only one part of a teacher and teacher who's going to go through the education process next year. This includes catering services that are also contracted, six, five or three days if they stay in a place where they receive education, it has to be paid. Therefore, the services under contract are development services of the Ministry of Education.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24930	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24931	Mrs. Micic, you had to immediately warn Gaš Knezevic not to insult the MPs. I'm not the face for him who called him. I am, for him, the honourable gentleman of the people, the honourable leader of the opposition in Parliament, not the person who called him. We MPs can sometimes use stronger expressions...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24932	Which member of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24933	Article 97, I've got it in my hand.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24934	Article 97 is a right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24935	Article 100.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24936	It's time to learn the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24937	I can, and I don't have to teach all the members of the Rules of Procedure, but you have to respect the Rules of Procedure and prevent the ministers from insulting the MPs. The minister is here to account for Parliament, to treat all MPs with respect, especially the MPs of the opposition, and it is up to us to criticise him as we know and know how and to compete with those criticisms, and he must not insult any MPs and it is a shame for this government to have such a minister of enlightenment as Gassa Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24938	You used the line after all. When you address others with respect, you can ask others to address you as such. The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic, president of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24939	The Honorable Presidency, fellow MPs, gentlemen of the government, as a synthetic document reflects the government's overall economic and social policy and talks about the economic concept, how real it is, how real it is. The budget provides answers to questions about the government's relations with citizens, but it also essentially speaks about the government itself. When we look at this draft budget, we analyze the figures, we go into their essence, we can realize that this budget has one, but a systemic error, that it is not realistic, that it is standing on glass feet, that it will not withstand the needs of the citizens in 2003, and that it will certainly be this budget, as well as the 2002 budget, that will be subject to rebalance. One little example. For pensioners, the rebalancing plan for 2002 is 49 billion dinars, as is the plan for 2003. We all know that's not how it's gonna be in 2003. The number of pensioners can only be increased and cannot be reduced. The increase in their number also means a real reduction in pensioners' income or there will be rebalancing, which I say. For the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, there are many reasons why this 2003 budget cannot be accepted. I'll just mention some. The 2003 budget should not be accepted because it is not balanced. Incomes are less than expenditure, which says by itself. For the third year in a row, the government has proposed an unbalanced budget. The government has planned what it will and where it will spend and how much. The question is, how is he going to secure all this? The budget deficit is about 47 billion dinars, which is 18%. It's normal for the deficit not to be planned more than 5%, and here it's 18% and that's a serious problem. How does the government plan to solve this problem, and is it even possible to solve it? First, 15.4 billion dinars or 250m euros were planned from privatisation. If it is known that this year's income is about 220m euros, that everything worth it is sold, we can only imagine what will be the subject of the sale and what the value of our companies will be compared to the market. Everything will be sold, and even natural wealth, and it will be sold for the sake of the deficit, not for the sake of investment in production, not for the purchase of equipment, not for new technologies, not for the development of the country, not for new jobs, but for the preservation of social peace and logical survival of this government. The government is not interested in production and additional value, so it is also pointless to introduce an additional value tax. According to the number of unemployed, Serbia is already the first country in Europe. By privatising the budget deficit coverage, the number will certainly be even higher. The second source of the deficit is from donations worth about 160m euros. It is now clear to all of Serbia's governments and citizens that there will be no adequate results from the promised donor conferences for Serbia, that the billions of dollars promised will not be. The strategic interest of Western countries in Serbia has been achieved since October 5th, so they no longer have interest in serious investments in Serbia. It is particularly bad, even if donations are made in part, which is not in the economy, but are planned for consumption. The third source, the participation of credit from international financial institutions, is the most unfavourable way of covering budget deficits, for the simple reason that these loan repayment obligations stand at generations that will come after us, and in this case the same observation as the previous two sources applies. We receive funds and these funds need to be focused on encouraging business activities, and they are used in consumption. The budget proposal shows that Serbia's government is not deviating from the spending rate. The participation of the tax on transport and excise duty accounts for two-thirds of the total revenue of the budget. The worst is that the demand is based not on domestic products, because production in Serbia is practically disappearing, but on imports of goods of broad consumption. This is best confirmed by the external trade deficit, which this year is likely to exceed 3.5 billion dollars or in other words, export coverage amounts to only one third - 36%. The external trade deficit for this year alone is about one third of gross domestic product. The budget is bad, just about this problem, which doesn't provide any means to stimulate exports. The opening of new supermarkets of other countries at the most attractive locations in Belgrade, without providing any reciprocity, shows that the state does not care about national interests. When industrial production has already been neglected, which is why the government does not support and encourage the development of agriculture in a higher degree than is provided for in this draft budget. The agrarian budget should not be a coin for the promotion of more spent money, for budget rebalancing as previous years, but must be channelled for these purposes, as well as for the construction of large infrastructure facilities. With a view to the level of individual funds by ministries and positions, it can be seen that more than 70% are expenditures on employee earnings and the preservation of social peace. When the government says that no more funds can be provided, that there are restrictions in the inflow of funds, that taxes cannot be increased, then the government itself falls into error, which it has not corrected by amending and supplementing tax laws. On the contrary, rather than the level of the Serbian citizens' tax corresponds to their economic power, and almost all of us agree that there is a significant inequality in Serbia's economic position, we do not agree on an explanation of the cause of the situation. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed, as you remember, and as this assembly has accepted, a proportionate method of taxation, instead of a progressive and thus showed its character to the right-wing government and thus, practically, redistributed the burden of taxpayers from middle-class people and the most socially vulnerable category of people. Dear fellow MPs, we SPS MPs believe that this kind of budget proposal is bloated, that it is not realistic, that it will break during implementation. The problem is conceptual nature. The government has accepted and applied a policy of harsh liberalisation, does not care about domestic economy, which allows imports of foreign goods and cheap purchases of Serbia's economic capacity. Transport tax can be charged and charged with the budget while citizens spend their reserves, but there are limits there as well. The problem is that no new value is created which could be spent and which should be a source of income for both citizens and the state. The current policy of the Serbian government does not count on the creation of a new value and restoration of the reserves created by those most criticised in this house. The memorandum envisions the macroeconomic and monetary policy of the government of the Republic of Serbia in the next two years does not guarantee that production will be increased and the living standard of the population will be improved. Thus, the government of the Republic of Serbia itself responded to the reality of this budget, i.e. that it is not feasible, and thus the socialists are unacceptable to us.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24940	The word has been made by MP Dejan Mihajlov, president of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24941	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, cannot help but comment on one of my senior colleagues. When the final bill was discussed here, how money was spent, there was only Minister Djelic. Now, when money is due, almost the entire government is gathered. That's how it usually happens, when a bill of law doesn't have ministers. Through the budget, he would agree with some of the predecessors, paintings and government policies and state policies at all. If that's a picture, then this government has no economic policy. We can document that with one fact and only through one thing. If the gross social product is considered to be one of the most important segments through which both budget and other spending is planned, then we can see in the case of three different plans for the gross social product in one year. The May 2002 memorandum says -- gross social product is $13.9 billion. The Serbian Prime Minister's exposure to the October 2002 budget -- $15.1 billion. A November 2002 memorandum, an estimate -- $18.4 billion. Is economic policy planned so responsibly? These changes in social product have never been recorded by developed countries or countries with a higher rate of GDP growth. If this is economic policy and this is how economic policy is run, then it is certainly not the government's responsibility. A government that experiences economic policy and state in this way certainly can't run well and have one good budget. The budget deficit is growing year after year. That's why the gross social product is increasing. To allow the budget deficits to be covered. How does the budget deficit cover itself? The budget deficit is covered by going further borrowing, which is being financed from privatisation, which has been generated for decades, sold and once spent to cover the budget deficit. It was a small state, in a small state it was recorded. So what our grandfathers were creating, some factories in Serbia, one of the privatisations is going to spend one time in the budget for this year. At the very least, if it's legal, it's not ethical, it's not moral and it's not honorable. The second thing, the budget deficit is covered by our budget being owed to the World Bank, by commercial banks and on other sides. Well, those loans are gonna have to be paid back. No one gives it away for nothing. They are in charge of some of the next authorities, and that was the main criticism, that earlier they were in charge of the control of these now. They only live in one grace period until interest is paid. Is this how responsible economic policy is run, if you cover one large part of the budget deficit with interest, funds from privatisation and all others? The budget deficit must be covered not this way, but by increasing production, by development. In this way, one responsible government covers the budget deficit. Has this government identified priorities? It's not. Does a government that doesn't know what a gross social product is, and if it changes it three times in one year, can it set priorities? He can't. We've been listening here to a variety of flossules, demagogy, crouching and everything else on the budget that's much bigger year after year, even above inflation rates, bigger than earlier budgets, which would mean there's money in the budget. If there's money, then why is he nagging at other things? It is certainly certain that the deficit that has been created is too great, that it leads to new borrowings and that the need for this deficit leads to unrealistic policy and unrealistic macroeconomic indicators that we have received along with this budget. Let's get to the other stuff. Let's say, let's say that the budget is one bill of law. We can conclude that this budget does not have all the elements provided for by the Budgetary System Act. There is no plan to sell the Republic's non-financial assets and basic assets for the financial year, which is scheduled to go with the budget system, the Budgetary System Act, which this assembly has adopted. Secondly, we do not have a draft law to implement the budget, although it is also necessary under the Budgetary System Act. What are we doing here? The 2001 final budget account showed that there were various resources available only in 2002, which were made in 2001. Is that what we're gonna do now? It's obvious that someone's intention is to continue with the unconscious and irresponsible spending of funds. I would ask you to calm the ambassadors who earn. (President: I ask the MPs to listen to the speaker. ) See Article 14 of the Law, where some 20 billion dinars are proposed not to be spent on the basis of this budget and on the basis of the resources and in the way set out in this budget and on the basis of the criteria established by this budget or by some other law. Under the Constitution and the law, it is possible to spend the budget money of public finances only in a manner established by the Budget Law. These funds are projected to be spent on specific programmes established by the government, without legal basis. The government gives itself the right to spend 20 billion dinars. To which items - we asked a series of questions during the final account debate: where did the money go, 10 billion, which were set aside for roads, road and air traffic, which routes were paved; we asked the question; where did the money go from the Serbian Development Fund, from the Transition Fund? We didn't get any answers. Here the question is now being raised -- where will these 20 billion go, whose spending is not foreseen by this budget law, and the sea, are already scheduled to determine that money, and the flow of that money, the government's programmes. Is this a budget that can be accepted for this parliament, or is this a budget that once again wants to degrade this parliament, since there are no elements provided for by the Law on the Budgetary System, which this parliament has adopted. These are important remarks, to which unfortunately we have not received an answer so far. If budget expenditure analysis is taken, the largest part of the budget, around 2/3, is planned for economic and social transfers, for domestic and foreign public debt payments and for "capital investment". Of these "capital investments", unfortunately, we didn't see anything, except that some others might have increased their capital, but the state didn't get anything capital. The proposed budget is a major burden for the economy and the population. It has an excessive budget deficit, showing that the government does not intend to start narrowing or reducing too wide alocating functions in favour of market affirmation, as a basic and dominant mechanism for allocating national resources and raising an efficient economic system. As I recall, we all advocated a market economy, with reduced government and government interference in economic flows. On the contrary, the Government through this budget, but also through a projection given in the 2004 and 2005 memo, sends a very clear message that state interventionism, with anachronous methods of action and short-term political goals and interests, is put ahead of the market economy, and new roles of the state in society. I would not say that this is the new role of the state in society, but the old role of the state in society, and this is to return to the old, not to the new. This is not the path that we can go and develop towards a market economy in the market economy. On the contrary, this is a return to the old and this is a return to command economy and state interventionism. In addition, I will read only atypical expenditures in the budget, which are not much in other countries' budgets, and they are very much. For example, contracted services, 2.5 billion dinars, specialized services of five billion dinars, investments in construction facilities and ongoing maintenance, with no indication of what, for whom, and how, 1.5 billion, fines for the resolution of courts and judicial bodies, about three billion. Look at what these funds are, completely undetermined, with a thin explanation, atypical, and which aim likely to enable those who are authorized to have these means, to help in various ways and various visions some "like" or professional, in this case politically similar persons. From all this, it can be concluded that this budget is not good. The DSS has submitted a series of amendments, which we want things to change, and in this budget, clean up. As far as possible, to make it an amendment path, but depending on the adoption of these amendments, and through some other discussions, DSS MPs will point to all other shortcomings, because I have not even touched the funds for agriculture, which are 3.5%, and in some countries up to 50% of the budget goes. Through these remarks and through everything else, the DSS MPs will eventually decide whether to support one of these draft budgets, which is to return to the old and not to go to a new transformed market economy; given that the Government has rejected these amendments, there is little room for the DSS MPs to support one such act.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24942	The word came from the Minister of Science and Technology, Mr Dragan Domazet.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24943	Dear Members of the People, I will try to explain one item called - specialized services in the area of the Ministry of Science, Technology and Development, because it is the largest item of those five billion, which Mr. Michael mentioned, and about three billion is in my ministry. All scientific and research development projects are funded, colleges, research activities, institutes are funded, scholarships are provided for the most talented students in postgraduate and doctoral studies, equipment is purchased, computers are purchased for universities and institutes, and this is the item, which so famously works - specialized services; but, if you wish, I can give a very detailed report. If you look at our website, Ministry, every three months we renew the current activity report and you can find all information on costs, as far as the item - specialized services, at our Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24944	The word is from MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the DOS parliamentary group - Serbia's Reform.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24945	Dear Mrs. Comic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, members of the government, Mr. President, I will try to answer in two segments those issues that are open and which are potentially being challenged by the parliamentary majority, which follows this budget law for 2003. I don't think the budget, the subject of public finance, should be the subject of over-emphasis of day-to-day political considerations. Because in public finances, there must be least and least be partying, politics, irresponsibility. We discussed yesterday the final bill for the 2001 budget. We'll vote on that next week. Unfortunately, we were not in a position to forward a programme of necessary investments in maintenance, protection, construction, reconstruction of highways, halfways, highways, regional roads in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Very pedantic, the financial plan of the Republic Directorate, which includes highways, peninsulas, highways, highways, rural roads, all that was the subject of yesterday's debate, was derailed by one truly irresponsible abandonment of the Republic Parliament session, due to the alleged threat of one member of RIK, who then explained to the media that those who left the assembly had been looking for, as they had said, Robin Hood, were wrong because he was in the restaurant all along, and then elsewhere, which I would not mention, because I don't think he was in a serious assembly debate. So when we talk about public finances, we need to talk about the truth and the facts. We can use phrases, but those who give too much attention to phrases cannot count on the kind of support without which this country cannot be transformed into normal society. Our reality is simple. We can spend exactly as much as we create, produce, and exactly how much further we provide, as some form of support and investment in our society. That's about 265-266 billion next year. The planned deficit is an indicative of 47. Is that an increase compared to the planned deficit percentage, compared to last year? It's not. It's a reduction. We had a greater deficit in the last year than we'll have in the next year, and that's true, and that's facts. Those who think that by distorting the truth and the fact can cure the defeats won in some other places, actually cheat on the citizens of this country. And that's why, when we talk about the budget, we have to talk to the facts, because it's the bill. The account has its own way out, it has its own entrance ahead of it. What are the priorities of the country next year, are they different than it was with the previous budget, or with the first one, because the lack of a plan is mentioned? The priorities for the 2001 budget were education, health care, justice, social programmes. Priorities in 2002 - education, health, justice and social programs. Priorities for 2003 are the same as you. Are these facts - of course they are, because all these indicators that are being analysed are public finances and how these public finances will be spent. Criticisms that are devalued by the avoidance of what is a budget system are pointless, but they can be harmful if such a thing is not answered clearly. We have adopted the architecture of the budgetary system by the Budgetary System Act and those who do not understand what these specific purposes mean, which are expenditure under the labour contract, must read the Law on the Budgetary System, because everything is precisely defined there, for the first time in 50 years, as far as this state is concerned by public finances. Those who thought there was a need for something like that, and were able to do such a particular thing today, don't have a lot of rights to this criticism, or that right can hold, but it's unargumented. Those who were observers 10 years ago, and today they are observers, because they only see their chance in the fact that by removing the painful spots in our society, we will definitely lose popularity, investing in something called tomorrow. I don't think that tomorrow is going to wait the way they expect and the best possible concrete evidence of what happened weeks ago, or two, in our society. You have to understand that by removing certain taxes, we actually restricted the volume of those funds that are in the state register. Only with the two amendments we supported from that register did we get two billion dinars. We have rejected the Ministry of Finance's position, voted amendments that take the sales tax off the mule and off the gas, that's minus two billion dinars, and the moment we voted like that, we have excluded two billion dinars from this budget. Since we believe that this is the maximum of fiscal tension that is completely rational, because it suits him perfectly, and what is seen very clearly from the budget rebalancing for 2002, where citizens have had much more exchanges and much more doporinos have shown, than some of these political forces in society, so this fiscal maximum is this momentary, and there is no answer to those monetary demands that have been made here. Can the answer be found in the planned deficit? You got it. Is the planned deficit filled by selling someone's future or by selling someone's past? In the first and second cases, no. Credit's an investment. We're knowingly in charge, because we haven't spent these loans the way they've actually spent 50 years. We spend our loans through investments that are very profitable and that will return to our society. Where have these loans been going so far? To the greatest extent to remount large systems in our society, so infrastructure, and what's the use of that? I think the benefits of that are very recognizable and clear, that in the coming year, she recognises, among other things, the fact that Serbia's electricity will be able to function commercially for the first time. As for privatisation and condemnation of privatisation, as a method to provide additional funding, that is total nonsense. After 12 years of transition in countries that were part of the Socialist concept, it is clear that this form of privatisation that we have defined is the most concrete and efficient. Many began to share the action, so they ended up on what we were actually on a year ago, and when we said that the state would sell on the market, and that whoever offered more, all that was state property, that those funds would be spent carefully; and those funds were spent carefully. We think that we should also give pensioners, we think that we should give funds that are further educated and overqualified by the workforce and the one who talks about his grandfather, keep that story in the circle of his family, and let the citizens who are left out of work today because they realize that they are out of work because for 10 years in this society they have been in a law that is impossible to fire workers, say that nothing else is happening to us and that we live with the life that lives in both Germany and Italy, and in France, and in the United States, where every day someone loses, every day someone gets. But the problem with our society is that the best ones always lost the most, and the worst ones were the ones who made the profit out of it. So that this debate doesn't go the wrong way, just the discussion based on facts, arguments, it's not true that this budget is precedent; it's more careful than any budget so far, and the greatest efforts are the stresses that will benefit the general social being in the sense that the social being is made -- education, health, justice, social programs. It will not benefit those who thought that they might function within the system of government in the way that they have functioned in the last few days. We stand behind this and I am convinced that we have a parliamentary majority, we are ready to respect every amendment that is reasonable, to accept any suggestion that will reveal to us something that has not been noticed so far, and in this way I think we will free up this day-to-day policy issue of public finances. We are at your disposal, but we are not ready to keep our mouths shut about something that is politically false and dusting in the eyes of the citizens of our society. When you speak in a poor country of billions, even if it is about dinars, you must choose words and be careful about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24946	The word came from Economy and Privatisation Minister Mr. Aleksandar Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24947	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, fellow ministers, I fully understand your concern for the situation in the economy, but in order to make you available a little bit of the latest statistics as it stands with industrial production, as well as with the situation in the economy at all. First, in 2002, we will achieve 3% growth, which is the first time in 10 years, with the exception of 1997 when thanks to the sale of Telecom and the free distribution of steam, an artificial basis for the growth of industrial production in Serbia is created. In 2002, there was a decline in net losses of 70%, measured in January-September, and there was a rise in net gains. These two data are a kind of testimony that Serbia's economy is a full-on restructuring process, which means that the successful part of the economy is doing even more successfully; thanks to privatisation in that part of the failed economy that has been privatised so far, conditions for investment and for increasing industrial production have been created. Thanks to privatisation, we made a total of 300m euros in investments in 2002, which will of course be realised by 2004. As far as privatisation is concerned, just to inform you, it is in a mature phase, which means that auction privatisation dynamics are going exactly as we predicted for 2002 and we have about 150 auction privatisations per month, the highest rate of performance of auction privatisation, which is now at 85%. Of the 10 companies offered, gentlemen, 8.5 is successfully privatized; just to understand what this means, experiences from Central Europe say that out of the 10 companies offered, only three were privatized. Also, what I want to inform you is that the process of restructuring major systems in Serbia's economy is indeed in a mature phase, that we have 26 companies where a social programme for reducing costs and improving their efficiency has been implemented. The social programme is transparently funded from the transition fund, the 2002 budget. At the same time, a large number of these large systems have already implemented a decomposition programme and privatisation of parts of the system. So, one dead sea, one lousy bar we were able to search with adequate restructuring and privatisation measures. The next year, 2003 will be marked by two parallel actions that will be led by the Ministry of Economy and Privatisation. First, we will continue to maintain the same pace of privatisation, as is now the pace of auction privatisation. At least 150 companies will be in the auction privatisation process monthly, so our plan is to privatise at least 1,500 small and medium-sized enterprises by the end of 2003. Also, the tender privatisation will complete the privatisation of 90 large enterprises, and by the end of 2003 20 large systems will be restructured and privatised, as it will say, half of the restructuring work will be completed. In order to avoid large systems in the meantime, and due to the lack of permanent crafts, due to the lack of those other liquid funds needed to maintain life and the kind of capacity utilisation, we have come to a possible bankruptcy in the Ministry of Economy and Privatisation, in the Republic of Serbia's budget, for a total of 6.5 billion dinars for economic subsidies. These subsidies were distributed in the last year to these companies located in the restructuring processes and there is a very clear record of each individual company benefiting from the subsidy programme. The subsidies are necessary because in a country in transition it is not simply possible to leave the market to itself to decide and only to result in the restructuring of these large systems. One responsible government, one responsible state must play an active role in the process of restructuring large systems, as for me, it is unimaginably large large systems such as the flag can be restructured and left to itself, without even a dinar of support from the Republic of Serbia's budget. We had a situation when the flag was on its own for 10 years, so we saw the flag restructuring running. Today we have a situation where Zastava is returning to the positions it was in 1992, before the start of the major disaster for the state of Serbia. Therefore, the subsidy funds will be actively used until the restructuring of the last major system in Serbia's economy and I hope that in two years from today, we will eliminate the position of subsidies in the economy and that, when we build a market economy, with dominant private property, we will discharge the budget for this rather large position that is needed at this point. Of course, in the coming year, we will move a part of the funds achieved by privatizing to the economy, but no longer by directing these funds through the so-called. artificial loans through the development fund towards social economy, rather than private economy, to privatised enterprises, to private enterprises, to the construction of small and medium-sized enterprises, precisely because the country's future is in a market economy with dominant private property. Social enterprises, large systems, will receive subsidies, private companies will receive credit support, among other things in part, in the amount of 50%, from funds collected through privatisation. Of course, we expect that these 50% privatisation revenues will have a significant impact on competition within the private finance sector and will lead to further downing of interest rates, which will be an even more favourable incentive for further development of the economy and ultimately to achieve our goal, which is 5% of the growth of industrial production in 2003. On the other hand, this ministry has also planned appropriate legislative activities. You will soon find a proposal to change the Law on Privatisation, which is more technically needed not to change the concept, don't worry, we won't be discussing it for long, but at the same time next year we want to bring in two central legal documents for Serbia's economy. One is the company law, the other is the bankruptcy law and, in parallel, we are entering a reform of the registration system, which deserves to have its own special institution of the central register and the elimination of all administrative barriers, which so far existed for entrepreneurs and businesses. In this regard, we have planned special services, special purposes services, precisely to implement these activities and a total of 45 million dinars is intended to implement the reform of the central registration system; for the making of bankruptcy laws, for the education of bankruptcy managers, because bankruptcy is only good if it is effectively implemented, not as it has been - after a few years of bankruptcy, property is spread, corruption is there, but is efficient, short, to free itself of blocked assets and to have an economic purpose. And, in the end, for the law of enterprises; those who are in business know, and to them it is clear that this law is a constitution for the economy of a country. It has the same importance in the economy as the Constitution for the whole country. Finally, since privatisation is, as you know, public, there is no house in Serbia that does not talk about privatisation in one way or another, since privatisation is transparent; because, I am sorry, until now, there has been no affair in privatisation or will be, we know very well that to the extent that we inform the public, all those who are potentially interested in participating in privatisation, to this extent depends on how transparent privatisation will be and how public it is, so we have foreseen one major item on the plan of further informing, raising information flows, to preserve two key principles of privatisation, which is public and transparency. Because we don't want to do what was done years before, when the company enters privatisation, usually no one knows that it's privatization except for a couple of friends, except a couple of insiders, except for those with whom it's already been agreed to go into the process. Privatisation is, gentlemen, public, providing full competition, providing competition between several potential customers and ensuring, most importantly, economic progress, progress in our country and the effects of privatisation in this year will be the best felt year in a strong increase in industrial production; and something else, not to forget, today we have the first time more jobs are open than those who have lost their jobs; and this is the result of restructuring of the economy, budgetary discipline, and monetary stability and a clear economic vision, and among other things one successfully realised privatisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24948	Thank you. The words were registered by Agriculture and Water Minister Dragan Vesenov.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24949	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, with just a few words, I would like to point out some of the main elements that make up the agrarian budget, trying to bring these elements close enough to your attention so you can make it easier to decide whether or not you will vote for this budget, including its agrarian part, believing that you will vote for this budget. The agrarian budget we proposed for 2003 is higher than the voted 2002 budget by 38%. Part of the water budget proposed for 2003 is larger than the voted share of the water budget for this year, which is slowly running out and will disappear by 33%. It is difficult anywhere to find a Minister of Agriculture who is satisfied with the size of the agricultural budget. But it's probably hard to find any other minister who's satisfied with the size of the budget. However, the country's financial opportunities, taxes and other income opportunities define our budgetary opportunities. Of course, we can open talks -- which would be an even more appropriate structure of the overall budget than this one, but that is no reason not to vote for the budget. There are critics who speak - this budget is only three and a half percent; no, it's a little larger than three and a half, but it's not more than 4% compared to the total part of the budget, but from country to country, the internal opportunities are different and the structure of the budget reflects these opportunities; and one of those opportunities in our country is that the social problems and issues inherited are such that our budget has to be relatively, not only inclusive, but huge resources that we serve the inherited liabilities in social consumption and compared to them, it's quite certain that any other part of the budget is then smaller, so in this relative sense and the agrarian part of the budget. However, the funds found in the agrarian budget are not the only assets that are poured into agriculture, nor are these the only grants for agriculture. There are other means. At the federal level, there are funds to finance exports. These are export subsidies, over 600 million dinars, which we believe might be bigger, but we will be happy to welcome the restructuring of what we call a federal state today and these subsidies will belong to the Republic budget in 2003. There are other elements to doping our agriculture. One of these elements is the Stock Reserve Directorate, through which our economy is irrevocably credited and where debts to it have been reprogrammed at the same time in 2001 for this year and for the following year, that debt has been reprogrammed to the size of 4.7 billion dinars. We also have a Development Fund which is a huge part of its resources, if not even majority, under non-communicative circumstances or circumstances that are not the commercial nature that approves business banks, invested in our agriculture. I would especially point out that the indirect system of doping our agriculture is extremely large. This includes almost a practical lack of taxation of our farmers, since the catastrian income in our country is a special government move, and already in a long number of years, determined at such a level that the practical taxation of farmers does not bring any benefit to the budget. That size is somewhere close to 3.5 billion dinars, if it would be assumed that a cadastrian income should be raised compared to which real taxation could then be cut. It's a huge donation to our agriculture. The second indirect donation to our agriculture consists of the abolished sales tax on all inputs as well as the means to treat, or protect, animals. That amount of funds in our budget is somewhere near 4 billion dinars a year. There are other means that are being poured into agriculture, and here I would especially like to mention the funds put at our disposal by individual governments. The funds are also close to four billion dinars for 2003. All in all, if we wanted to add up direct and indirect grants for our agriculture, the agricultural budget is over 20 billion dinars. In this section relating to our budget, which we in parliament approve, I would like to highlight only a few items, and I believe that at least the convincing majority will support you. The first is the milk premium, which we retain at that level that successfully raised milk production and milk delivery, remains at 700 million liters, and that is the milk, organized production for the delivery of dairy that existed during the best days of our dairy. We not only retain the premium for sugar beet, but we extend the area from 55,000 hectares, how much we sown this year, to at least 70,000 hectares, because sugar production, as well as sugar, is one of the preconditions for the total rise of our country's negotiating level before the European Union, where in future negotiations for quotas that are certainly coming to us, probably in 2005, and perhaps in some respects already before, will help us to enter these talks with increased positions by raising production. We retain, believing that this is an element of long-term agrarian policy, regardless of which government comes tomorrow, these elements will be retained, a premium for tobacco; there are also premiums for long-term plantings related to the vine, and where is 100,000 dinars per hectare. Then, for plums, where it's 40,000 per hectare. What is new in this budget, which I would especially like to say, is the newly introduced sunflower premiums and soy, which is an element of raising and improving the country's land structure, which will certainly contribute to raising farmers' income. It's our desire to jump from 100,000 acres that we now sow at 120,000, and at the sunflower we go to 185,000 hectares. In particular, I would like to point out that this agrarian budget provides for funds to build up land property. Land property in our country, and according to the data we now have based on the 2002 census, it's smaller than it's ever been. This is the result of a policy of carelessness towards agriculture in the past, non-financialisation of land ownership, the absence of credit for the accumulation of land ownership, poor solutions in inheritance law, as well as land maximum introduced by the communists. Today, nearly 80% of all land properties in our country are not more than 5 hectares, and this requires special state intervention. If you adopt the agrarian budget, or budget proposed by the Valda of the Republic of Serbia, then let's be sure that from now on any government's policy in the future, we are convinced that it will be a permanent financing of the accumulation of land property. This opportunity to answer a few questions which one of the heads of parliament had asked, and he also praised my hairstyle, which I especially thanked him for. Among other things, he asked a question, which would be the price of wheat. That's what God knows. What they should know for sure is at least those who want to observe, analyse, comment on, that for at least two years in our country there is a completely free market for wheat, which does not exclude state interventionism, which next year, if you accept the agrarian budget, or budget, will amount to at least 212 million dinars and will be used to pay the first and second-class wheat premiums in that area that the government announced before the sowing, which is no less than 260,000 tonnes. The question has been asked why meat is imported. I want you to know that meat is almost not imported at all and that it's a huge untruth given by this head of Parliament. In the first 10 months of this year, about 25 million dollars of meat products, cans and others were imported, but in that group over two-thirds refers to seafood, so fish. The reason the gentleman asked a question about imports is probably because a lot of this product, seafood, doesn't waste. Therefore, he did not notice, and he obviously also spent on the appearance of some other meat products, he was not able to see that the import of agricultural, or meat products is extremely small and does not amount to more than 1,500 tonnes. And the question has been asked, and that's where I'm going to end up, about what agricultural professional service is. It is sad for us that those who want to deal with agriculture do not know that in the country there are agricultures, that there are agricultural cells and that, over it, there is a large network of several hundred agricultural cells, agricultures and institutes, the Institute for the Application of Science in Agriculture and that through it is permanent, year after year and year, and it is not any invention of this government, but a patent or policy and government before us, that through this network, and now specifically explores the structure of agricultural production, of course, land and tries to advise farmers whose model farm or other way of production, to devote themselves. The alliance for livestock has been mentioned and the question has been asked why. The livestock council was introduced under the Socialists in 1991, which is one of the institutions that is useful and which they miraculously introduced and that's where they hit. It is not a expensive institution, it is a scientific institution and serves the Ministry of Agriculture to plan a policy in livestock with improved effects. Finally, I would also like to tell you this, believing that you will receive this message quite well on purpose, if you vote the agrarian budget, or the budget as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we can expect in 2003 to increase the total volume of agricultural production by 3% and make another contribution to the progress of our agriculture and economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24950	I thank the minister. National MP Dragan Tomic, deputy president of the National Socialist Group, applied for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24951	Dear Members of the People's Parliament, we have before us the economic policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia for 2003. I haven't been able to figure it out, because I think we're missing some serious parameters, and we haven't been told here, so I'm going to give a heads-up on those parameters. It has been said that there are limited resources for budget users and that these are maximum limits. I think that the government of the Republic of Serbia can open up spaces that will open roads to new and wider levels of funds, which will fill in those parts of the budget that are limited for further periods, so I will remind myself of some important facts. I'm sorry that the Minister of Economy and Privatisation has come out, I don't think it's paid enough attention so far to the interest policy in this country, and I think it's past control. I think the banks are still wild. I'll tell you a few important facts. This is a problem for myself, and regardless of what we declare a market economy, I am in favour of an absolutely hard policy, because this relationship between banks and businesses in Serbia is not a novelty. It is one process that has been going on for many years and some of these banks, which have now come to the Serbian market, I would say it looks more like a brother-in-law company. If it's important for them to have the deposits of municipalities, cities, businesses and to strengthen their positions, if they're important... Tell them or they'll come out, so we can talk. I've been to the election and I've always beaten you with radicals when I was in the election. So it's important to put interest policy in order, create conditions for several important factors in economic development. This is primarily to ensure that agricultural production is really growing. I don't think the story of 3% of growth in economic production is really going to be possible, and I think that the decline in economic production will continue in the following year, because interest rate policy is not going to allow that. The government in balances does not have the right elements to eliminate these parafiscal factors and will not create conditions for a good part of the economy, which can really develop, to open new programmes, to develop new areas of production from existing programmes, while also filling the budget in various ways, through sales tax, through excises, through gross earnings, through profits. So there's a key factor for me, and that's where the bill should be taken. I think the National Bank of Yugoslavia has been kidnapped as an independent institution. As we approach New Year's Eve again, I'm under the impression that we're about to be re-emerged into a banking system or a banking market. These are important and essential facts. They open up, if the interest policy of banks in Serbia is settled, to get into a situation if production grows then employment will grow. It seems to me that he's stagnating employment at this point, and it seems to me that he's falling, because the relationship between people who are losing their jobs and those who are being hired seems to be in favor of a negative trend. If we are talking about one absolute policy direction for another year, this is one of the key factors that must and cannot be linked to political parties, it must be clearly restricted and defined in some direction. Without the growth of production, without employment growth and the decline of interest on the banking market, there is no economic policy for next year. That's very important. I don't want to deal with empty stories from this pay phone, but it seems to me that economic policy must be directed in that direction. Another important factor for me is the fact that the imbalance between imports and exports is one to five times in favour of imports. That relationship has to change. Is this a stimulating policy in the field of tax policy, whether these are certain incentives by the Government of the Republic of Serbia for exports and to be limited in a certain way, regardless of what we declare market production, but I have the impression that everything and everything is imported into Serbia. If a pile of these goods, the production of these same goods and the producers of these goods exist on the domestic market, it is only necessary to be washed out in credit so that they can satisfy the production. If I understood correctly that for the first nine months, exports were about $480 million, and imports were about 2 billion and 200 million, I don't think that's good for this country's politics. I don't know what the relations between the federal and the republican governments are, but I have the impression that a lot of things are going down and that the damage to the state of Serbia is huge. I don't think it's our best quality thing and the story of how the most important investment in Serbia is for this year's Mercator. I would be happy if it were some manufacturing business that would employ 300-400 workers and bring in a gross mass for the domestic budget, and this is the question of how our trading house will manage in the trade area. I think that all of these factors that would affect one serious growth in employment are growth in economic production I can't agree with the fact that agriculture participates with 3.5%. If, in the total gross social product, its participation is between 40 and 50% or 35%, I think that at this point, at least 12 to 15% of the participation in the budget on the foreign subsidies in agriculture would help agricultural production. Agricultural producers are damaged on several sides. I think that this policy is influenced by certain lobbys that are located between the producer and the state, which accumulate with them finished products in agriculture, and this could obviously react by some measure, according to me at a certain rate of tax. Only at that stage and thus reach a certain mass of income. These are 3 to 5% rates, where there could also be a certain amount of revenue, which could boost the position of the budget. I've been saying this all for a reason to realize that there are spaces, we think there are, it's not all gloomy. We think we can find space in Serbia, no matter what we all find ourselves in one ungrateful position, we as a developed opposition, one non-positive state and some time behind us and before us, but I think we should speak optimistically. If there is any movement in the government of the Republic of Serbia's programme for next year, then we can, and otherwise, the national Socialists will not support this proposal. What I mean in the end, regardless of our position, many of us classify ourselves. Different means of pressure are being used in the media these days. Tales of being a member of the Republic Government's shift may someone once file a motion here to replace the Republic Government; if that's what he's talking about, it's a public story. At the time I was in the Socialist Party, I asked to apply for a government shift. Some didn't want to, and that's what we had a big argument about. I don't want to talk about the morale of individuals, but if there's a request, we'll support it. We don't want to talk to anyone until then.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24952	Are any of the presidents of the parliamentary groups applying for a word? No, I don't. ) We continue to discuss the draft budget law for 2003. According to applications for the word of the MPs of the people, the word has been given by MP Marin Kresic. The next reported word is Adam Urosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24953	There's not much need for further argument for me. This draft budget is actually a highly qualified, comprehensive and integrated system in which there is little to take away or add. I think it all works together as one well-integrated wheel that needs to be filled and empty and that we live by it next year. That's not controversial. I volunteered for a little thing that I couldn't actually make a qualified amendment, to try to make a small change, not to spoil that system, not to get out of one, to pour into another and keep something hollow. In fact, if this budget covers everything, all categories of people are reduced to some of their roles, all of them categorized, everyone who works, everyone who produces, all people who are in the overall economic, economic and social system, from production to social. That's how it all works now, and I see it as one ant where everyone does something and everything works. What's not categorized in that anthill, which isn't covered by the budget, it's crickets. In other words, within the culture budget, it is projected somewhere below 1% and out of that is 2/3 for institution employees, there is no room for free artists. That's why I want to draw attention to the government's failure to give in to any more rebalancing. So my appeal is to quickly try to make a rebalancing, to make a qualified redistribution and find a place for our country to say that it needs free artists. In fact, that's what we can offer the world. He can't say that to the local community, he can't say the city. Free artists, who have lost pension and social security, have remained humiliated and relatively offended by dialogue with local administrations, but I don't think it's the task of local administrations, but of the state to say - we want those artists. We won't offer the world cars better than others, or computers, or anything else, but what they know about us is sports and culture. If we say culture, don't view it as social giving, but look as our marketing and what we can show the world as a talented and creative nation, not sufficiently organized.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24954	The word of the People's Messenger is Adam Urosevic. The next to be reported is MP Pal Shandor.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24955	The Honorable Presidency, brothers and sisters of Serbs, respected representatives of national minorities and ethnic communities, considering the proposed text of the 2003 law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia, the EU's Economic Affairs Committee has seen a number of illogical economic assumptions that I will point out to you, on behalf of the Soviet Parliament group, on behalf of the Soviet Union. First, the proposed budget for 2003 is nominally higher by 20.8% compared to 2002, but inflation for 2002, that is to say, will eliminate the growth of the 2003 budget. Covering the budget deficit is planned from privatisation, donations, foreign loans and domestic borrowings. In the opinion of the Soviet Union, these assumptions are unrealistic. Let's take the turn. As far as privatisation is concerned, it is difficult to say that it will also provide sufficient resources in the coming period, given the fact that the largest number of wealthy companies are sold at auction, i.e. for minimum assets below the actual value or sale. When it comes to donations, they are under question, because experience in transition countries tells us that after a larger inflow of donations, the trend of reduction is recorded. One of the less significant and quality forms of covering the budget deficit is also foreign loans. By the way of this tax policy, the burden of successive payments of the current deficit is passed on to generations that are coming, as a significant amount of budget expenditure over the next few years will go to repayments on the basis of the credit commitments undertaken. It should not be ignored, because it may be the most important, regular political requirements of international political and financial institutions, which prevent regularity from inflowing foreign loans. These political demands are mainly related to respect for the Dayton Agreement, or co-operation with The Hague tribunal, and are essentially creating a colonial relationship between Serbia and the fictitious international community. If under the paragraph - domestic borrowings, as one of the items for covering budget deficits, is considered to be taking credit from the National Bank and the business banks, as well as printing short-term bonds, this way is very dangerous, as it may result in inflation, especially if the printing of money is not followed by the growth of production volumes and the increase of services on the domestic market. Also, there is a risk of reducing the credit opportunities of business banks, as there remains less credit potential for the needs of the economy. Taking into account the forecasts that the growth of real average earnings for December 2002 to December 2003 will be 5%, and the expected inflation rate, which is an unrealistic optimistic wish, will be 9%, this disproportion, although not large at first sight, will be a burden for already impoverished citizens of Serbia. In the macroeconomic policy project for the period 2002-2005, GDP growth is about 5% for each year. This takes parallel data with the transition model in Poland, and it is ignored that only for the period from 1989 to 1995, about six billion dollars has been invested in Poland, which is not the case with Serbia, as foreign investment is very low. Examples from Hungary, Poland and the Czech Republic point to certain stages of the take-off of inflation, since the unscheduled planned growth of the gross social product, i.e. its decline, is accompanied by inflation growth. The next step is the recession of the economy and the decline in profits, an increase in unemployment, and all in order to address inflation-produced problems. The percentage of GDP growth would have to be followed by the same percentage of profit growth and would be one of the basic pillars of anti-inflation policy. Given the situation in our economy, i.e. the lack of foreign capital influence in our economy, the question of the seriousness of the planned macroeconomic policy is raised, because the growth of the gross social product is difficult to achieve 5%, which will cause reduced profits or even decreases of the same, with which workers, who still live on the edge of the existential minimum, will certainly not be satisfied. In order to prevent an explosion of dissatisfaction and buy social peace, the government would have to print inflationary money emissions, causing price increases and thus the economy to fall back into deflation. The planned reduction in inflation rates necessarily produces an increase in the unemployment rate, so the government's projection of a solid anti-inflation policy, in reducing the unemployment rate, is absolutely unrealistic and represents a political marketing, i.e. a colorful lie for the people. The budget memorandum is expected to cover budget deficits from abroad by 2005 and from 2005 to its own foreign traffic. However, imports are increasing the outflow of foreign exchanges, and given the low competitiveness of our economy, with one of the government's objectives of external trade liberalisation and the removal of all barriers, there is a real danger of a complete economic breakdown and of jeopardising the established convergence of dinars. There is also a reduction in consumption, i.e. an increase in investment to reduce consumption. The problem is that the increase in savings, or investments, directly reduces demand, and imposes the need to transfer offers to foreign markets, so we should also point out the poor competitiveness of our economy. But if my entire discussion were not just about criticism, we from the Soviet Party, as one of the biggest and most significant factors of national gross income growth, see an increase in productivity and technical progress. Because the biggest problem with the current macroeconomic policy of the Serbian government is that it depends to a lesser extent on ourselves, and to a greater extent on foreign donations of investment. Such a fate is the existing government, by its advocacy and deserves, and thus expires on it. But we must not allow the sun and colonial relationship to pull away our entire economy, our national pride and the fate of the citizens of Serbia. Its observations on the draft budget will be made through amendments to individual members of this law by SSJ MPs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24956	The word has the People's Messenger Pal Shandor.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24957	Dear colleagues, tonight we have experienced a strange inflation of ministerial speeches, I understand their need to say something sometimes in the Assembly, but there has been an opportunity all year to come and talk, not to explain after the prime minister what he has explained very successfully. So, I really think Mr. Djindjic said everything to be said, and let them sit with us all year round, when the benches are empty and let them explain, and I think they also need to answer a few questions, so I don't think today was the hottest day. The amendments to the draft budget; which, of course, I will support and which I think is good and that it can no longer collect or share, I will support, but I want to say something that I do not like and that is more from some professional sphere than these political ones, and refers to the Ministry of Science and Technology. Last year I wrote amendments to about two institutions and I wrote for nothing, because apparently "they didn't have ears for my music". It is that there is a Law on the Mother of Serbia, and the Mother of Serbia is not a budgetary item, and there is a Law on the Serbian Academy of Sciences, it is provided for by certain finances, and Matica is not. Since the Matica is the oldest scientific and cultural institution, however, and that, herself, President Dr. Bozidar Kovacek and her secretary, wrote to even the Prime Minister a letter that they are in a difficult material situation and that they are praying for help, especially because they are doing two capital projects -- one is a lexicon, a bibliographic department, a Serbian bibliographic dictionary, and the other is a lexicon writer of Yugoslavia, and these projects have been brought into a really difficult position. I understand, and I think that Mr. Minister, no matter what he prefers natural sciences, has to be equal and good both to social sciences and that, given his interests, he cannot put it in another position. If something is not clear in the Matrix and these projects are being looked at financially, I think it's an open question and we should do it. I suggested to Mr Djelic that somewhere in the government's proposal, before we vote on it, what is a legal obligation is to be found, which is that the oldest institution, scientific and cultural, with Serbs, is respected in the right way, so before Article 6. The Law on the Matica of Serbia says the Serbian Matica provides the means to carry out the jobs and achieve its goals from the Republika Srpska budget. I don't think it can be under items that are -- other and other purposes, scientific and research projects, etc. I'm asking you to sort of appreciate it. The second remark also applies to the ministry. In the autumn, we had a gathering, an international scientific meeting of the Slavics, and it was an opportunity for people from 60 countries of the world to come, some and study, university professors mostly, about Yugoslavism, and the Ministry did not find it appropriate to do so in any way; even the president of the International Slavic Centre said there was no representative of the Ministry, any of the assistants, to come to say anything. It's really incomprehensible, that when someone comes to take an interest in us, we don't respect them properly, and we're ready to send thousands of other people around the world, that we're interested in them. And then it was even more scandalous what they told the domestics, who reported the reports, which are mostly university professors, to come at their own expense. It may be a few tens of thousands of marks, it's about gatherings of such important social sciences. I don't think we should treat it that way. Therefore, I really propose to pay attention to these things, which are more operational, and last year I received some promise that with the Matrix of Serbian these finances would be good, and none of it was. I've had a letter here since June 18th, Mr. Secretary, so since October 3rd, where they are constantly uraging, they're looking for funds. I mean, if it's said that Matica has been in the worst financial situation since 1993, it has to be dealt with differently, a team before there's a legal obligation. We can now ask for various excuses and various explanations, but I mean what is a fundamental legal obligation, that we must respect it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24958	Mr. Dragan Domazet, the Minister of Science and Technology, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24959	I'd like to answer Mr. Pal Shandor's question. I was at the Serbian Matica in Novi Sad, we talked, we agreed to solve the problem as much as we can in terms of possibilities and legal powers, and it's in the resolution phase. The year hasn't come out yet, so the promise will be fulfilled. We buy the promised number of computers for the Serbian Matrix. I think it will be delivered in January, and next week they will sign the contract and receive funds for it. As for these two capital issues, i.e. significant editions, we have received a request of 2.5 million and in collaboration with the Ministry of Culture we are now in agreements on how to finance these issues jointly and I think we will conclude a financing agreement by the end of the year. When you say -- funding from the budget, there are two ways of funding: in terms of institutional funding that we give for salaries or through projects. Under the Law on Scientific and Research Action, which still applies, my ministry can exclusively finance through scientific and research projects. That's how we finance the Serbian Matica, that's how we finance all scientific institutions, that's how we finance the Serbian Academy of Science. We'll probably change the Law on Scientific Research by mid-Next year. Then we will transform the institute and one part of the institutions in the field of science will be institutionally funded to some extent, one part projected and placed on the market, and the part will be combined with the colleges and will be engaged in educational and scientific activities. It is an opportunity for us to define the position of the Serbian Mother, for which I must say, it is not only a scientific institution, it is also an institution of culture, so we must speak together with the Ministry of Culture. I think it's best that we discuss in January whether this year's promise has been fulfilled. I believe you'll speak differently then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24960	There's a word from MP Miodrag Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24961	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs, is in principle a debate on the distribution of poverty, at least in our country, and it is normal that none of the budget users can be satisfied. However, they would not be satisfied even if they got twice as much money as they get. That part is not controversial, it's small to all, but it's a controversial part of the other part, which is defined in the inscription on Wolf's grave, which says, "I'm already rebelling because it's not my right", which is actually defined by the balance, or by the relationship that individual budget users are evaluated, which is actually the government's development policy. Since you've seen a function in society, that's how you value it. And normally, you assume, since I have relatively little time, because my parliamentary group only has 9.5 minutes, that I'm going to talk about the university, because the funds for the university should have a development function, not a social function, which, unfortunately, it is. To cut short, in 2002, the participation of money received by the university within the framework of complete money invested through the Ministry of Education and Sports was one-sixth. In 2003, it comes from a budget of 4 billion 991 million or 3.16% more; however, when you consider inflation, it is about 70 million in real terms less than it was this year. That's one-eightth of the participation in the Ministry of Education. Normally, the minister will probably say yes, but there is another part there, and that second part appears in the budget for the first time, in the column -- additional funds; and there are even for the university and higher schools planned for two billion and 084 million, respectively, about 30% of funding for universities and higher schools. Can we get extra funding, or that kind of money, from the tuition? I don't think so. We've had these funds this year, but they haven't been singled out, they've had some colleges, and they're not usually colleges that can pull development, and you know what colleges are, which have a lot of students, technically; technical colleges are extremely endangered, and I can tell you about it competently, because for the last year and a half I've been sold to finance and I don't complain a lot, we don't get half the funding we need to cover just public and utility accounts; we're the only ones who regularly pay PTT services, so we don't get off the Internet, because we stick to it as a straw strangler, because it's our only contact with the world. If there weren't, unfortunately, political pressures, we'd be shut down right now, like most colleges, we'd be cut off by electricity, water, heating, with students on the street. It is a state, unfortunately, at the university. Not to mention, at my university, 30% of the employees of young assistants and doctors in initial titles have profits that are below the base for charging taxes. On the basis of this, they pay taxes on a bigger base than their profits, and they get even lower profits. It was resolved in primary and secondary schools by the government's regulation to bring a correction factor, giving money for correction, however, universities do not get the part. Unfortunately, they don't have unions, they're small in terms of primary and secondary schools to threaten strike and that's the situation they are. Knowing all this about the university, I want to remind my fellow MPs, members of the Educational Committee, who, in spite of their close majority, supported this budget with five abstentions, at least this division in this budget, and there are university professors and deans there. However, we MPs are not MPs, as far as we are, probably the people will evaluate in some of the next elections and, unfortunately, I have already used almost two-thirds of the time that is intended for my parliamentary group, I do not have time to talk about other divisions. I wanted especially about agriculture, about the state of agriculture, about the agrarian budget, which certainly doesn't have a clearly defined development function, and that can be easy; and a small and large budget can or can't have a development function, depending on whether you have a concept. This one's gone, and who doesn't know which way or where he wants to go, he's been traveling for a very long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24962	The word is by MP Velimir Simonovic. So New Serbia's parliamentary group has used six minutes, there are three minutes left. The next one registered for the word is Parliament of People Gordana Pop-Lazic. You have five minutes, since you don't have a parliamentary group, and according to Article 89(3), you have five minutes to speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24963	Ladies and gentlemen, as you can see here, the people's emissary can't even talk about the most important law to be passed in one year, and that's the budget. I'm given five minutes, and I want to talk about more stuff; two things that I think I'm quite competent to do, and that's about university education and the work about science, technology and development. I wanted to say another word about something else, I thought I had enough arguments to hear from the government and resolution ministers, maybe some of those arguments and adopt, and this is how Mrs. Micic makes me, because she won't let me talk about the budget, only to vote on the budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24964	It's not Mrs. Micic, it's the rules of the Rules of Procedure that we all have to respect. The word has a folk MP, Gordana Pop-Lazic, and the next reported for the word is MP Milutin Salesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24965	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the finance minister today told us that when this budget is adopted, they will no longer be able to transfer money from one division to another, and not even within one division will they be able to transfer some larger money; is that right, Minister? Yes, it is. If that's the case, you're certainly in an unguarded grape because of that rebalancing we've been considering this morning and yesterday, because it's still uncertain whether we're going to admit it to you post-festum or not, or whether we're going to vote it or not, so it's your responsibility for everything that's been done with the state money. We also heard that national income in Serbia is about $1,500 per capita, and public spending, as far as we can see, exceeds 50% of gross national income, which is absurd for a country in transition and poor. You know, I'm going to try to do it so vividly to explain what it means to collect taxes from which to fill the budget, so that everyone knows. When you kill a cream with milk, you take it off like this, there's something left. There's milk left over, so there's cheese made, so someone's using it again. And you, when you take taxes, you grab taxes like this, and so you can grab once, twice, but you grab a lot and the jar is quickly empty. Therefore, taxes are taken like this, gentlemen, if you think you can endure longer and taxpayers can survive. Unfortunately, I don't have much time to comment on the whole budget, I'm just going to do some items and the expenditure side of the budget, and what I want to draw attention to is, first of all, the donations you've been planning, and that to NGOs, even from the department of the Ministry of Education. Look, I really can't figure that out, from the Ministry of Education, from primary and secondary education, and even higher, and higher, especially, higher and higher education, huge funds for funding NGOs. Division of the Ministry of Science and Technology, 28 million dinars for NGOs. The health ministry, we know the state of our health care and health care facility, health care in general, 30 million dinars. The Ministry of Faith, please, 159 million and 300,000 dinars. Services under contract have already been commented, but the total services per contract and specialised services totalling 7.5 billion dinars of this budget. The Ministry of Ecology, I will draw attention only to him, 250 million for these specialized services he singles out, and only two years ago the entire budget of the Ministry of Ecology was 14 million dinars. Compare those two figures, so you'll know exactly how wasteful this budget is. Besides, what kind of expert government needs specialised services to this extent, and plus expenses, travel, I've calculated both a billion and 264 million. Please, will you get out of those planes at all? Minister Pitic has 26m dinars for various trips. He can freely issue an apartment for a year and not get out of the plane with his entire family, go around the globe all the time. Various agencies, these two agencies, the Agency for Foreign Investments and Export Promotion is an imaginary agency, and the Agency for Energy Efficiency, is not here Kori Udovicki, 35.5 million; of which 20 million should be financed from donations from foreign countries, and what do you think, what is it, the foreigners came here to prepare a full electricity industry for sale. There's nothing else to be. The budget shows everything, absolutely everything, you see the government's intentions in the future. I'm sorry, no more time, my colleagues will continue to criticise this budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24966	Mrs. Angelka Mihajlov, Minister for Environmental Protection, answered the words.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24967	I would point out the government's intentions in the period ahead, related to environmental protection and natural wealth. So, the government's intentions this time are to privatise it for the first time with an ecological component, that infrastructure projects go with an ecological component, the government's intention is to build a system of environmental protection in the way that needs to be built, not to transfer air pollution to water, to transfer from water to land and simply not to establish a system. 250 million services for geological research are said here as a condition for the operation of mining activities and the exploitation of mineral raw materials, so the conditions for sustainable use of resources. Of these 250 million shares is for monitoring services, i.e. in order to make Prof. Simonovic said monitoring the environment, air, water, land and plant and animal life. Of these 250 million parts of it is to react in the event of environmental accidents, to protect fish as resources and other resources that this, one of the youngest ministries in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, has been given your thanks to MPs, and we will really try to start working honestly on this job through this budget. Finally, I would add why the government of the Republic of Serbia has rejected an amendment of MPs related to this ministry, which reduces the amount related to official travel. The government of the Republic of Serbia has rejected the amendment because reducing the costs of official roads means reducing the possibility of inspection entering the field, and this ministry has an environmental inspection, a fishing inspection, an inspection for forestry and hunting. That is why the government of the Republic of Serbia has rejected the amendment to prevent the inspection from entering the field. Dear MPs, I would like to ask you once again to vote for this budget because this ministry, with its engagement, is guaranteed that the Government of Serbia programme will have a guaranteed ecological component next year.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24968	Health Minister Tomica Milosavljevic also called for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24969	Ladies and gentlemen, I didn't think it would be necessary for me to explain the health budget because it's clear to everyone that health has been pretty humiliated a long time ago, but for your information back five years, it hasn't happened once that this budget, no matter how much it is, has been achieved in a percentage that is more than 85%, which only happened one year. That, unfortunately, does not always mean saving, but very often means lack of action and poor work. This year, as you will see from the report and have already seen, will be the first when that percentage of budget implementation is over 90% this year. When it's said: NGOs in health care, then it can't have a pessimistic sound, no matter how much anyone understands it. The NGO in health means - Red Cross, Society for Combating Cancer, Society for Combating Drugs, Society for Combating Alcoholism, Association of Patients and Parents Patients. It's a programme worth 30 million dinars for 2003. Thank you for your kind attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24970	Mr. Milovanovic, the Minister of Faith, called for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24971	Honourable MPs, present minister, Mr. Prime Minister, I would like to say a little bit about this term, which has been repeatedly explained so far -- what NGOs mean. Here, often under the term of NGOs, all the NGOs that exist are involved. Of course, this government will not finance all NGOs, but only NGOs that have complementary activities with government organisations or NGOs that need to be financed. In this case, though, you had a recent example of the Ministry of Health, but in order to just illustrate what these NGOs are, here at the Ministry of Faith NGOs are churches and religious communities that are necessary for the state to help. Here we think of SPC, the Catholic Church, the evangelical churches and the religious communities that also belong to this vault. So, it's not about those standard Encios, where you even mentioned some concrete, but only NGOs that have complementary functions and where the government's intervention from the budget is necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24972	I thank the minister. The word is made by MP Mulutin Svedovic, MP of the DOS-DSS parliamentary group. The next person registered for the word is MP Ljubodrag Grbic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24973	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, in the countries of developed democracy, the adoption of the budget for next year is certainly one of the most significant events in Parliament's work, and to God and government. The main reason for this is one of the definitions of the budget, that it represents the government's action programme, not only as a financial and administrative and political instrument, but also as an important active tool for the economic and social policy of the state. And in this budget there must be a basic three items, which are that we know what the government's goal is, which is the government's funds used to achieve that goal and the expected effect that will be achieved after the investment of those funds. In the end, in the final account, we'll see the effects caused by one of these budgets. Therefore, the realistic forecast of gross social product, consolidated public spending balance and budget at all levels is a professional and moral obligation of the Government and the Ministry of Finance and Economy. However, the Serbian government and the Ministry of Finance, the gross social product in 2003, differed in three maha, and I have to repeat that, in a memorandum of May 2002 of $13.9 billion, then in an exposé of the Prime Minister on the budget of October 2002, which mentioned a $15.1 billion figure and a November memorandum, which mentioned a $18.4 billion figure. A similar story was for the previous year, with amounts ranging from $12.3 billion to $15.5 billion. The estimate of gross social product is complex and delicate activity but it is unacceptable to go out to the public within a few months with data that differs from 20 to 35 percent. This level of error can result in adverse consequences for other macro-aggregations, such as primarily the production of goods and services, the formation and use of income, personal public consumption, economic relations with abroad and the like. It is evident from all of this that the government is doing so. After the adjustment, the reading of this base aggregate for its needs motivated by political-tactic reasons, since it clearly shows the tendency to fill a huge gap between the excessive volume of public consumption on the one hand and the low growth of gross social product on the other. Only in this way can it be explained that the participation of Serbia's budget in the 2003 gross social product has been reduced, when it is known that the proposed budget for 2003 has increased by eight times compared to the 2000 budget, compared to 2001 twice. Let's go back to something that's seen with the naked eye, which is that the expected income of 214.6 billion dinaraubir is as follows: so 89 billion is collected from sales taxes; 50 billion from the income tax of citizens, 48 billion are collected from excises, and only 3.8 billion from corporate tax. What does all this tell us? This tells us what our economy is in right now. The budget deficit needs to be covered by 47 billion. It is covered by privatisation, donations, foreign and domestic loans. The question arises, could the privatisation funds of 15.3 billion dinars have been able to enter the economy to create new jobs, boost exports, raise the technological level of production and modernisation. I have to remind the government present here that a regulation on restructuring was issued on 14 January this year. A few minutes ago, one of the ministers here said restructuring was at a good stage. I have to tell you that I come from a middle where there's a company with 4,500 employees, and the Ato is a "Mennel". What the government has done for restructuring, which is that it has appointed a forced manager, i.e. a forced administration, and has chosen the board of directors and letters nothing more than that. However, Mr. Prime Minister once said that the government has no money for it, but we do not see that there will be money in this budget to do such a thing. I have to mention once again, it's a factory that has seven of its own facilities in five municipalities. Why don't we have a list of the relevant companies that are planned to privatize and see which companies this 15.3 billion dinar figure is going to be from. Could these donations amount to 9.5 billion to finance some of the economic infrastructures. All of this money, which covers this budget deficit, is called healthy money. It's a pity you're so-called. healthy money goes into the cover, i.e. the patching of budget gaps. When it comes to holes, let's go back to the question, that is, the questions raised yesterday from this pay phone during the debate on the 2001 final budget account, which can be repeated, because this budget does not see any criteria for spending 8 plus 12 billion dinars on government programmes and traffic. When are we going to know the plan and program of maintenance of travel infrastructure protection and construction for 2003? Why am I repeating this again? Again because in small municipalities, roads in the jurisdiction of the Republic are traffics that represent the streets in these municipalities. We can't resuscitate it without the approval of the Republic, and the Republic has very little to do with small municipalities. It's certainly important to patch up and eliminate the holes in the roads. Our infrastructure is in a catastrophic state, but the holes in the pockets of the people are far bigger and this kind of budget won't patch up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24974	The word has a minister of privatisation, Mr. Aleksandar Vlahovic, and then a minister of finance and economy, Mr. Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24975	Dear People's MPs, just a few information. First of all, you are informed on a monthly basis about the list of enterprises in the privatisation process, as the Privatisation Act requires. All information on the companies that are privatised, about auctions expected, about the dynamics of these auctions, the dynamics of the completion of the tender, the restructuring can be found in the Committee on Privatisation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia which functions regularly and where representatives and the Ministry and the Agency are regularly present to submit a report on the work on privatisation. As far as restructuring is concerned, it runs according to plan, but there was a problem with the particular company mentioned by the company "Rudnik" from Gornji Milanovac that entered the privatisation process two or three years ago under the old law and was a private company. So, when we made a recovery plan for 2002, the "Rudnik" from Gornji Milanovac, a private company, was not even covered by the restructuring programme. Meanwhile, "The Mine" has proven that the division, the free division of actions, is usually tossing dust into the eyes, that there can be no free to share something that does not exist and that we had on a number of other examples in other businesses. Since it's a company that's really big and it really deserves special attention, we put the Mine in the restructuring program half this year. In this year's restructuring money was not intended for a specific enterprise, it was not intended to finance social programmes from the Transition Fund. In the following year, in 2003, the position for funding and social programme and restructuring is located in the Transition Fund and in economic subsidies. By the way, no matter what the Mine was a private company, until the moment the shareholders had not annulled their decision to free-distribute the actions, the Mine was from the funds of subsidies to the economy strongly supported by the Ministry of Economy and Privatisation. I'm very glad that the employees of the Mine have realized that the Cedar privatisation is usually a waste of time, because it doesn't give any chance of the company's perspective. I'm so glad they're in the way of recovery right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24976	Thank you. The word has a finance and economy minister, Mr Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24977	Ladies and gentlemen, this is a brief answer to one question that has already been asked twice, what about gross national income, from where this revaluation came from. The government in no way audits those aggregates itself. We have a "producer" of this very important aggregate, which is our Republic Statistics Office and the Federal Statistical Office. Although, I thought the federals were compiling Serbia-Montenegro. However, they actually have two independent estimates and then compare the figures they come up with. It's just, what happened this year? Two things. When the first version of the budget memo was present and we shared it with all the budget users and passed it here and I would say, we promoted a little bit more widely and explained what the aggregates we were expecting, we worked with the same figures for gross national income for 2000 and 2001. However, when there was a second version of the memo, we had in the meantime the reactollisation done by the statistical institutions themselves and then they gave us new figures, which came from revised figures for gross national income in 2000 and 2001. It was observed that there was a significant growth in everything that our statistics failed to fully capture at that moment. She's progressing methodologically. There were more technical assistance missions and, of course, not according to some intent and not by some political order, that figure was re-valorized. In addition, it is an element for this second step, it has been observed that the first revision was not enough, because they have completed some additional sectors and after further consultations with the OSCE specialists, the IMF, Eurostat, who are working with them and thanks to which they have prepared a deep programme of statistics reform, which we need, we have come to this figure. At the moment of negotiations with the International Monetary Fund missions, of course, there have been very heated discussions about this important aggregate, and you can imagine, if you want, some negotiation of the IMF team in principle wants to reduce this aggregate so that public spending will look as high as possible and then demand additional efforts and it is already a spy technique that they have been implementing for decades. However, around this figure there was a alignment, that's that number and let me tell you one thing: with a figure like this, we wouldn't get the Paris Club, as we got it and we wouldn't get the same treatment from the World Bank as we got; because those assets, those loans with zero interest of 20 years, loans with six years of starting, it's only for countries that have less than $1,200 per capita. To be open to the end, we could have imagined such a story. That revaluation came in, now we've got the right numbers and that's good. I'd like to add a few more examples, because statistics are often the subject of debate and in our case of course that if we look at our gross national income structure, we don't have a statistical apparatus and what it is today won't be able to monitor, whoever it is in the government, whoever it is in the Assembly, the evolution of our economy. For what? First because our statistics continue to work on the same mold as they did during Tito's time. There was no change in the 1990s, but at the time she was one of the best in Europe. When I say in Europe, it is really not only in Central Europe, but in Europe, and its method is not a modern method per sample. She literally asked and these are large patterns that all businesses, all entrepreneurs were filling in to know the exact situation. However, such statistics and such statistics are not similar to private property, nor to the market economy. At this point, a great effort is making statistics to emulate, to get more real figures. Two examples; if you look at statistics, it seems that in 2002 bread production fell by 25%. If there is one good in Serbia, which, economists say, is unelastic and Serbs in some long period consume the same amount of it, of course, that quantity they consume has not fallen by 20%; however, those social bakers that monitor statistics lose the game on the market, because bread is somewhat more expensive and somewhat less tasty, while at the shine of small bakers, who at this point are nothing in many cities as mushrooms, these producers are not in the statistics. Another example, if you look at the building, we have two digits from the same statistics that can't and prioritize to be accepted at the same time. Take and compare for the building, for the first nine months of 2002 according to the first nine months of last year and it seems that the number of effective hours of work has dropped 6.4%, while the same statistics show that the value of construction works has increased by 70%. What's the question here? First, a dozen private construction companies do not enter our statistics, so the real economic situation in our country is better than this statistics would show, but at the same time we see that it has to get much closer to what the measurement adds to the value, and not just the amount that is measured, because there is obviously a gap here, because it does not measure added value in this sector. Of course the government didn't do any harm. If you want, there are some people with whom we conduct financial arrangements and who wouldn't let us, because it's simply more in our interest to implement something that's reality than to deceive anyone, and least of all to ourselves.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24978	The word comes from MP Ljubodrag Grbic, the DOS parliamentary group - Serbia's Reform, and the next is MP Toma Busetic, the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24979	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected members of the government, the New Democracy in the approach to the debate on this budget points out that, in line with its ideas of a minimum but strong state, the government's superior task sees in providing basic and classical state affairs, with a careful choice of obligations for socially responsible duties. The state can't handle it if it still sees itself as a giant on glass feet. Dear MPs, respected citizens, the proposed budget reflects the idea of the state of entrepreneurs and the state of guardians. This, unfortunately, is defined for the essential assembling of those sectors of public administration, public institutions and services where it would have to take a step towards urgent modernisation and that there is no alternative to the state. Gentlemen, for economic subsidies from the budget are alternative models for the supply of capital, no matter what they tell me, rather than the use of tax money. After all, good governance does not provide escape from the state in business and state entrepreneurship, where the state can make the most of the mistakes, leaving basic state affairs without a financial basis for decisive modernisation. I remind you that the fundamental constraints for economic development and direct foreign investment, which are a crucial factor in Serbia's development, are particularly insufficient efficiency of courts, businesses and civil society, the programme's neglect of education in state schools and colleges, poor and unreliable management of property traffic records, insufficient efficiency and motivation, technical equipment and police training to fight crime. So, almost everything about basic state functions. Dear MPs, the amendment that I have submitted to the budget for the coming year, I have asked for an improvement in the material position of the Ministry of the Interior, because it is really not appropriate to provide for such a range of functions to be taken over by the Federal Ministry of Interior after the closing down of the same without clear budgetary security; because the budget does not provide for responsible financing for necessary and urgent technical equipment, especially in criminal technology and border security. Because this level of investment cannot begin the implementation of the London Conference's conclusions on the fight against organised crime in Southeast Europe, which is also the key basis for our country's accession to the European Union. Dear MPs, Mr. Djelic, allow me to remind you of one of the most important conclusions of the London Conference: "Exhibition to crime and lack of legal certainty are key factors that discourage investment and thus economic development. Criminal activities, whose actions are made possible or are driven from Southeast Europe, affecting partners in the rest of Europe and most importantly, are denying government incomes, international trade and investment, destroying jobs and revenues." So, it sounds unusual, but the right to invest in economic development, where there is no alternative for the state, are practical technical means and motivation, primarily members of the Interior Ministry to do their job and create a normal and safe environment for investors and investments. Dear Minister, if you lease Serbia's railway partner for 10 euros, you may have saved both the railway and the state, but behind the police must be responsible, reliable and strong public funding. So, the responsible budget, because those who intend to, so to speak, hire the police and have dangerous intentions to destroy the state, and then neither the ministers, nor the finance ministers, mean much. Mr. Minister, things are more dramatic than my words, so I ask you to give a statement to this House that reflects your ministry's position and also the government's view of how you see the solution to these problems. We hold to your public duties, but we will hold you to your word. A new democracy, as a liberal party, is convinced that the final vote in this assembly is a budget in which improving classical state functions is not a priority of the budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24980	The People's Messenger Tom Bushetić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24981	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the proposed budget is very bulky. It's about huge financial resources. It's about a circus of 260 billion dinars. It's a budget that's 7-8 times the budget in 2000. We are free to say that this budget will be a great burden for a weak economy and for an even poorer population of the Republic of Serbia. On the other hand, it might make sense, if this is the budget, that users will be satisfied. Even the users won't be happy. We are witnessing a great dissatisfaction between professors, doctors, civil servants and public service workers and businesses. So it's not even about a budget like this, it's about a double dissatisfaction. As for the previous two years, this budget has been diaphragmized for 47 billion dinars. The proposal envisions covering the deficit through privatisation, donations and loans from international financial organisations. It is quite clear that if it goes or continues this way with the sale of companies for several euros, for several thousand marks, agricultural goods, various hairdressers' cooperatives, with 14-15 bars, for 2-3 000 euros, that these 15 billion dinar funds will be very difficult to fill. On the other hand, if this occurs with more large sales, a legitimate question arises whether these funds should be invested and given for public consumption. When it comes to donations, it is clear that the donation will be less and less. The main job is done. On the other hand, we all need to know that the conditions for donations are very complex and difficult. However, Kostunica said a few days ago that Serbs would no longer be extradited to The Hague, as if a minor sin was for those who have been extradited so far. Certainly, the biggest shame is the extradition of our president Slobodan Milosevic. Of course, there is no more blackmail on donations: donations or full co-operation with The Hague. As we all know, only Serbs cooperate with The Hague, because only they are in The Hague. If we're talking about loans, credits are very unfavourable and difficult. Even in Tito's time in Yugoslavia, the Assembly decided not to use loans, not even for investments, just from the IMF, the World Bank. Surely we have bitter experiences of many countries in the environment. You keep talking about how well in Poland, Hungary, the Czech Republic, the transition has been successfully done, and I don't know how well you know that these countries owe about 130 billion dollars at the moment and that 1/3 of the national income is only going to pay the interest, and the principal stays. So it's very difficult to talk about this and this way to cover the deficit. When we talk about priorities, although not highlighted, it is known that the government is always talking about health priorities, education, stable pension funds. The health situation, regardless of the minister's story, is very difficult, the health workers are unhappy. The availability of top diagnostics is more difficult and worse than in time, several years ago, so these five billion drops in the sea, given the original assets that are about 60 billion. Education - 40 billion. We know they're dissatisfied educators. On the other hand, the only newspaper written in the memorandum is this nine-year primary education. No reform of any kind. The only goal is, about, to end high schools and colleges and to have a mass of uneducated residents at the Employment Service. Speaking of a pension fund, Minister Gordana Matkovic said a few days ago that we didn't know that 60% of pensioners had a pension lower than 6,500 dinars. What today can be bought from 6,500 dinars or what needs to be reconciled, given that electricity is expensive 7-8 times, heating ten times, as well as all other supplies. This donation to the pension fund of 50 billion will be nothing significant or will improve pensioners' position. Here some ministers have been saying that NGOs are not on this list in their ministries. However, although it is quite finely written, we know that there are many NGOs here, that they are represented also in the Ministry of Science and Culture and for social policy, for health, for religion and for who knows where everything is. We don't know, and we're not fully explained what NGOs are talking about. What is certain is that Serbia is now overwhelmed by these organisations. These are various autonomous centres, crisis groups, initiatives. They all kill themselves to prove to us that we live well, that we must rule strictly by the rules of the West. There are various experts, analysts. Of course, the pearl is Sonja Biserko, Natasa Kandic, well-paid from abroad. I can tell you, Serbia is sicker than these NGOs and these analysts and experts. We're not voting for this budget. We think he's the expression of one of the wrong policies. I don't know how much the Prime Minister knows, but I would recommend that he read some of these World Bank experts, such as Stiglica, which speaks clearly in his textbooks where these countries move in transition. Everything has already been seen in us: market-based prices with these maximum prices, capital market liberalisation with the sale of banks and poverty reduction strategies. A few days ago, the government adopted such a thing, that strategy. So everything's familiar and everything's seen. I think we'll go that way. They don't mean anything to you. Looks like you're getting paid a little bit more. I just want to tell you that in Argentina, before this economic collapse, the salaries were $1,000, but that the prices for basic life supplies, electricity, taxes were $1,500 and that Argentina had an economic collapse. I'm afraid that'll be our way. One more thing. Djindjic said nicely a few days ago that our most important goals are freedom and independence, but he must know that the symbol for freedom and independence is our President Slobodan Milosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24982	The word is made by the Prime Minister, Mr. Zoran Djindjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24983	Of course, I respect the beliefs and opinions of each individual, but I don't want to comment on the definitions, I want to comment on the facts. After four or five hours of discussion, I would just like to brief a few elements to point out, to maybe facilitate a later debate, because there are several elements about which there is a little misunderstanding that may also be related to facts. At the beginning, discussions on the principle of the heads of parliament clubs often mentioned the deficit of this budget as its main problem. I don't think that's one valid remark. So that deficit is projected by 3.8%. Someone says he's too tall. The standard of the European Union, which is considered very strict, is 1.8%. The European Union has set 1.8% as the highest requirement for the countries of the European Union, which they are due to meet by next year. The countries of the European Union have a problem meeting this. Italy has a 2.2% deficit for 2002. You can look into today. The Financial Times. Germany will have a 3% deficit. Hungary will have a 9% budget deficit due to salary hikes. They had elections, so the previous government increased salaries to budget users, etc. It's not that important. So, a deficit that moves somewhere around 4% brings us closer to European standards. Of course, reaching 2% of 4% is not that easy, but I think 4% is one model financial discipline and every story, that's very much, I don't think it's realistic, and that our country will still have to account for a certain number of years with budget deficits. The most important thing is for him to be recognized, to be clear and express himself in one place. There are other variations, with a hidden deficit, which we found when we started putting finance into order in 2001, just to see what it was about and we managed to figure out, roughly, that 15% was a budget deficit, which the previous government had made. But she didn't have this way of calculating at all, but that deficit was just that you dropped the skeletons, whatever closet you open up, some debts came up. It's great, you know, that everything was cheap, it's great that the gas was cheap, but we now have $270 million in real living debt for that Russian gas. It's great that oil or gasoline are sometimes cheap, but we now have 130 million dollars in debt to the Chinese for that oil. It's great that the train is cheap, but we only have 170m euros for wagons to foreign companies, their cars we used, and we didn't pay for it. Only for the EPS 500 million dollars, $1200,000 for NIS, they're all deficits. So that's the money you owe someone and where the state showed up as someone who guaranteed it, where she bought some social peace, because she gave the population a little cheaper than the economic prices, but another part of it went to finance some other things, and we can't say there was no deficit. We can say he wasn't shown, but he was very tall. So, I don't think that deficit is such a big problem, it's important that he be in control. So, to know what it is and to know that, at the end of the year, MPs, when they adopt the 2002 budget, see if it is 4%, to see if the government's projection is fulfilled and to see if the deficit really is funded. The story of loans and debt slavery, which was in the campaign for a while, and then it was forgotten, it's really pure manipulation. As Minister Djelic said several times, thanks to the fact that we have really started with very low positions, we have received economic treatment in the World Bank from one of the poorest countries in the world; because why our economic indicators were as indicators of poor African countries, and therefore we get such credit ratings, that we have no interest. This means that global inflation between 1-1.5% in 10 or 20 years is going to cut that 30 percent credit, because it's not interest-free, and the value of money is going down at the world level, and we get a gift. We can't get him now. So, we can't get that kind of credit anymore, because they've seen, too, by analyzing our economic movement that we're no longer a country that can be called to this special treatment for humanitarian reasons, but I don't think that's so bad. So it's better that we step on our feet a little bit, so we can look for credits on the world market, under normal conditions, than deserve humanitarian help and then get cheap loans, but on the other hand, we really have a difficult humanitarian situation in the country. There are two more topics; one is a little ideological, and these are these other countries in transition; and apparently, their condition is bad, and that's the purest lie. Ladies and gentlemen, that's the purest lie, and we don't have any of it, "a grape is sour," the Poles, the Hungarians, they've been bought by someone else, and they're bad at living. You don't all have to drive through Hungary, you don't all have to know how to live there, but there are some indicators that are objective. The one I have here in my hand is the World Bank 2002 report, the list of countries (we are not yet here), the most competitive in the world, so the countries whose economy is the healthiest, most dynamic and which have achieved economic indicators, which are then ranked and the ranking list has been created. Among 41 countries, six are the former Socialist bloc, the best standing in Hungary, and then Estonia, Slovenia, and the Czech Republic in 37th place, and the Slovak Republic in 40th and Poland in 41st places. After that are Brazil, and Uruguay, and Argentina, and Egypt, and Panama, and Turkey, and Peru, and Romania, and India, and Salvador, and Bulgaria, and Vietnam, etc. So, six countries that were once far behind us, for which we were America, are now America for us. We can catch up to them, but if we accept that they are now better at all performances than we are, and by economy, and by institutions, and by attractiveness for investment and productivity of work. If we say no, they're still colonies, then we lose the criteria, and then we can be content, praise each other, but that's not the solution. The solution is to see what they've been doing; they've been on their way for 10 years before we have, but we can catch them, because we've been faster than they've ever been, but if we go towards the goal, which they're closer to than we are. If we go the other way, because we don't want to go to the target they're headed for, then we'll wander around the desert. So they're better than us today, they're not going bad, they're not going bad in Hungary, and we need to see what they're doing to solve their problems, because surely some of it can be applied in our country as well. The next topic is the university and the development component of this budget at all. The good news is that most or almost all of the budget users, in this budget planned, stand better than in this year 2002; further, in the 2002 budget better than in 2001, and I will show you about the growth of their salaries. They're mentioned by university professors, they're doing very badly. A regular professor, meaning the seventh degree, had a net salary of 7,882 dinars in February 2001, and in December the salary for November was net of 19,846 dinars or 167 index points of difference. This means that university professors' salaries are not so bad compared to the average in our country, it's good news and it applies to all budget users. Bad or slightly less good news - most of the money in the budget is intended for wages and there is no room in the budget for other investments, e.g. for a new university. When a new university in Belgrade, or in some big city, is built, like a real technical university, for example, engineering, with equipment, with computers, with laboratories, where research is done, where innovations, patents are being checked -- not long ago; and there won't be any next year, because it costs a lot, we don't have those pairs, and it's very bad. That's true, but if that weren't the case, then we wouldn't be a country with economic problems and a country in transition, but we'd be a successful dynamic economy, which invests in research and basic sciences from which products that are then placed on the world market and from which money comes. But that's our goal. So we first have to give people who work there minimum means of life to be motivated to work there, so that after a while we can gradually raise the entire institution. If we start investing in buildings now, and people receive 50 or 100 euros a month, nothing is worth it to us. It's also one procedure that has some dynamics and can't be skipped by one night. Secondly, we expect that next year's revenues may be greater than what is foreseen because one part of the grey economy will go further into legal business. We think there will be more business in Serbia than we can project, but I don't want to predict. But the idea is that it can't go into an increase in salary. So the expenditures remain as defined, because it corresponds to the dynamics of the growth of the social product. The fact that something's going to happen on the economic scene, if it's going to happen more positively than we predicted it should go into favour of discharging the economy. As we could do this year through the change of tax laws, the tax system, to cut some taxes, hopefully next year we'll be able to cut some extra taxes, if the economic situation allows it. So what we need to send as a message to our public is that the amount of money for expenditure, for expenditure, for budget fees must remain constant. If things are improving on the side of the economy, it should contribute to the economy, but this minimum we guarantee that it will be collected from taxes, if the economy develops as it develops in these two years and if the political situation is about as stable as it is today. As stable as she is, I think that made it possible for one economic growth that wasn't so bad. I don't know if I have any papers here, but I have a statement from the European Bank's chief expert on reconstruction and development, who had this presentation this morning, it will be published safely in the media and he said Yugoslavia remains a leader in transition. So, despite everything that's been going on, everything that's been said, at the end of this year, the analysis of the world's economic institutions, the most credible -- there are no larger experts, than the experts of the European Bank, because they invest European money -- they say: we are a country that holds a leadership position in reforms and in transition. If, despite having all those who earn, and I love what we have, it makes life better for us, we would be bored without them, if they are not exaggerating, despite all this, this country has been seen by the relevant financial institutions as a country that is progressing and developing. The last thing I wanted to say was, colleagues from the DSS and colleagues from the SPS had a similar attitude; approximately, a colleague from the DSS said -- it's unfortunate that healthy money is going to the hoarding of budget holes; and a fellow from the SPS said -- because neither the budget users are satisfied, what to give them, so since they're not already satisfied, let's give it to the economy, and let's get them to it. I mean, it's a shame that we live people call it the hoarding of budget holes, that's sad. It's not any budget gaps, it's pensions, it's salaries for teachers, for doctors, for judges, it's child benefits, it's those budget items that we finance by budget deficits. It is easy for us to agree, if you say - this assembly takes responsibility for making a political decision, we will introduce market liberalisation in Serbia. You think it's harder for the government to engage in economics than not to engage? There's someone who says, "Let the companies go, let them fight for themselves, our businesses are great, they'll survive." But don't say, "Why don't you come to the mine, which is a private enterprise?" You resent us in principle that the government is in business at all, and then you ask us to go to a private company and help him. If you define the government's role to be a communicator who's going to stand by and just make sure someone doesn't get killed and get out of the way, that's the easiest position of a government. But then why do you need a government in Serbia? Why do you need a doctor who's just gonna sit there and advise you on the side? You need a doctor to operate, you need a doctor to tell you the truth about your condition. So, this liberalism, in my opinion, is a pretty social liberalism that says -- the budget, it's actually something ugly, it's social cases, and the economy, it's something good, and we love economics, we love production, let's give money for production, for economy, and the budget, it's something that the state spends. That's not true. I see in the paper every day -- there are too many countries in Serbia. What's a state? The state is a citizen of the state and is this spent by the state? Is 60 billion dinars for pensions, 30 billion dinars for social donations, 60 billion and some billion for the salaries of budget beneficiaries, is that the state? These are citizens of the state who, of course, do certain jobs in this country and who get money and pay from the whole of society, because if we find it socially beneficial, then they perform a socially beneficial function. Please, I mentioned it at first, to define ourselves; I respect such understanding, I have a lot of disputes, both abroad and in our country, with representatives of the liberal economy. I'm not sure if that position is good; and as far as Stiglica is concerned, he's an adviser to the Serbian government, officially, means not that we've read it, not that we know it, but we're also talking to him. Of course, there are problems in the International Monetary Fund, there are problems in the concept of the development of many countries, we know these problems, but there are two possible positions that are generally opposite - one is, to sum up: the smallest possible taxes, let go, as a pond. You have a pond with very little fish and don't fish, let a year or two multiply the fish and then you'll be able to catch it with a net. And what happens in those two or three years until you fish with people who are supposed to live out of it? Some say that those who cannot survive will die naturally. So it's a liberal philosophy reduced to its last principles, those who can't survive, who can't fight, what can we do, it's Darwin's theory of natural selection; and that's one concept. Another concept says: society has an obligation to its members and we cannot let market laws govern one country. Now you can't have both at the same time, you have to define yourself for one or the other. You can't say -- we want to give pensioners bigger pensions, teachers bigger salaries, we're solidarity with miners, they're supposed to get bigger incomes, and on the other hand you're saying -- they're budget holes, they're ragging, that you're not ashamed to patch them up. It's a dilemma that has to be clarified at the very beginning. And since I think that both in this assembly and in our public, there is a consensus about a socially responsible policy and that there are no strong forces in our public that advocate some wild liberal economy, I think now we can discuss the details of this social policy, not the concept. But if someone shows up at this pay phone and starts to resent why they're funding from the budget in the first place, so-called. budget holes, then I think it's a big misunderstanding. I would ask that the budget deficit and the fact that we finance certain social groups from the budget are not used as some principled argument. I fully respect the desire to know what is behind each budget item, what the Ministry predicts with some amount for NGOs, NGOs; absolutely responsibly argues, this government is never and will never finance anything called a NGO in public. What we call an NGO, it's an unfortunate term that marks all organizations that are not governmental, which are also churches, and disabled, and a red cross, etc. but certainly no organization registered as an NGO in a classical sense is on the budget. Now, if the ministers tell you five times, and then the sixth time someone says it again -- here, the NGO in the division of religious communities, I think it's malice. So there are many opportunities to criticise the budget with details, there are many opportunities to make proposals, there is no need to look for ideological optics and then to interpret and criticise this budget with incorrect qualifications and interpretations. (Toma Bushetić, from the site: Replica, I was misread. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24984	You have no right to a replica, no mention of your name at all, and you are not misread. The word has a National MP Zlata Djeric, a New Serbia parliamentary group; therefore, three minutes left for your parliamentary group. The following is MP Bratoljub Janackovic, a member of the DOS-Reform Serbia, who is next registered for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24985	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respecting the time we've invested so far and the fatigue already seen in everyone, I'll try to be brief. In fact, the budget is, it's clear to everyone, something that's limited, the budget is very exact, and I've heard here that every well-intentioned suggestion is welcome and I'm going to try to put it that way. I'm especially glad to see the finance and health ministers here together, so I can address them, because this is a suggestion about them. In fact, budgets are strictly dedicated and cannot be rerouted without the consent of the Ministry of Finance. The budget has a way in and out, and it's very clear and concrete. What this tall home has to put an overa at the end is the final bill, is some of the next budget. Financial discipline is absolutely necessary for us all to have some security. The budget is the funds of all citizens and of us sitting here and representing them, and we are all users of that budget directly or indirectly. I'm just going to draw attention to one thing that I've been asked to do in front of my party, the finance minister, because we've addressed the Ministry of Health, and we're worried about rerouting funds from the budget without the consent of the Ministry of Finance, it's only one example, there can be a lot of them, and later ignorance doesn't justify us if we confirm something we didn't know. Namely, it is the Serbian Blood Transfusion Institute, a copy of the November 6th 2002 report of the Management Board, that budgets intended for the achievement of general interest in health care are being rerouted to the Institute's equipment and this is missing equipment. The decision was delivered to the financial services and the health ministry. Not the Ministry of Finance. On the same day, at the same session, the decision - a public procurement procedure will be launched under regular number 3. etc.; the expected value of public procurement is 19,200,000 dinars, but the donation of the European Agency in 2002 is three million euros for the purchase of equipment. Therefore, something that is the subject of a donation is being obtained. Budgetary user control is extremely necessary. In fact, we've been looking for information from the Ministry of Health, I don't know if it's been received (it's addressed to the Minister of Health). He didn't get it. That's why we're actually interested in the possibility of budget users controlling themselves and not being that kind of abuse. I think the suggestion is entirely well-intentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24986	The word has a People's MP Bratoljub Janackovic, and the next reported is Milos Todorovic, the SSJ parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24987	The Honorable Presidency, respected members of the Government, the Honorable Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, thinking about the proposed budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2003, I wondered what I could propose to the Minister of Finance, the Honorable Mr Djelic, and given that, as before him, there are many restrictions and demands, from the inevitable large social elements and the givings, which the prime minister spoke of a few times, and through some requests and requests for intervention to resuscitate fallen agriculture and also conflicting demands for justified liberalisation and tax reduction, to the imminent financing of the federal budget of the SRJ, the truth of extremity, but still a very active consumer of the budget. How to reconcile the irreconcilable and ensure the budgetary sovereignty and priorities of the Republic of Serbia's budgetary interests. I am grateful to Minister Djelic, who recently mentioned the fact that the 2002 budget, although in the planned framework, was partly filled with credit debt to one of our banks, and that the surprise was complete, with a bank depositing the federal budget surplus. At the same time, tax and excise money from the space of Serbia is poured into the federal register, by automation and by my conviction, without some clear basis in the documents of the Republic, I would say more in the habit. It is my belief that Serbia's budget should have an absolute championship and that all public revenues from the territory of the Republic of Serbia and, above all, taxes on transport and excise duties should be collected immediately and without delay only into the Republic of Serbia's budget. Simply, revenues for the SRJ, the countries in shutting down, cannot be affected automatically and directly by participation in sales and excise duties, which are the original revenues of the Republic of Serbia. It is almost a categorical attitude of New Democracy that all taxes are collected in the Republic of Serbia's budget, and that the bulky side of the Republic of Serbia's budget shows the amount transferred to the federal budget, with precise dynamics and priorities adopted by this parliament, and at the government's proposal. Dear MPs, while the administration of the Republic of Serbia is terrified of strangers, where to provide funding for the takeover of SRJ businesses, and all of us these days are asking very unpleasant questions to Mr. Djelic, the federal finance minister is waving the surplus of the federal state. At least not enough collegiate; and not only that: part of the Yugoslav Army's assets are being sold and bided without knowing whether, as well as how these revenues are being recorded. There's also customs revenue. Dear MPs, citizens of Serbia, want Serbia, which has so far financed the common state and will continue to finance it with 95%, knows where and how to spend taxpayers' money and control it. That's why we want all income from Serbian taxpayers in Serbia's budget. All expenditure financed by Serbia's taxpayer, referring to Serbia-Montenegro's union, to be shown in Serbia's budget at the same level of detail as it does for other divisions. Implementation exclusively through Serbia's vault, all financial commitments towards the future union of Serbia-Montenegro, and not through some isolated bureaucracy at the common level, which can but doesn't have to function in the best way; control, internal and external, by the institutions of the Republic of Serbia, all that Serbia's taxpayers finance. In the end, I think the proposed 2003 budget deserves all the attention and respect, because in the previous days we were witnesses and participants when we criticised the proposed tax laws that had been well affected by the taxpayers. Today, we have shown dissatisfaction as to why certain budget users are not given enough. It is, however, the best proof that the budget is well balanced and that there will always be dissatisfaction by those from whom it is taken, and that those who receive at a certain point will be more or less satisfied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24988	The word has a People's MP Milos Todorovic, followed by Arsen Kurjački.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24989	Dear Mrs. Comic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Prime Minister, we are today considering the draft budget bill for 2003. That's the third budget this government is proposing and I sincerely hope for the last one. The budget was regularly accompanied by unrealistic promises, false optimism, and even more false statistics. The government's policy they wrongly called -- reforms in Serbia, instead of authorities at all costs -- has been debacled, and people in Serbia have led to despair and a begging stick. In light of this proposal, the government is chasing us with a fairy tale about the macroeconomic framework for the period 2002 to 2005 and macroeconomic policy again until 2005. Gentlemen of the government, your time is up. The elections must be held at the latest in September 2004, and for you, the elections are probably the same as a tornado for Florida. You will certainly not be here, or even in Serbia in 2005, because then there will be other people, of course, which people choose. In order for the government and all of us to understand where we are actually worth hearing again the first sentence of the draft budget -- the 2003 budget of the Republic of Serbia is drawn up in line with an economic policy that should lay the foundation of rapid and sustainable economic growth. Listen, rapid and sustainable economic growth. And what is the economic situation with us will best be informed from the study - the 2003 Index of Economic Freedoms. "Volstrit Journal" where Yugoslavia ranks 149th of 156 countries. Please, 149th place of 156 countries. Please, this is a report from your newspaper since the opposition doesn't exist since 22.11. 2002. Last year we were in 144th place, so, realistically, by all economic indicators this year, we were more unsuccessful than we were last year. So, in vain, gentlemen of the government's colorful lies. In the whole world, we are even worse off on the economic plan of Belarus, North Korea, Iran and Zimbabwe. That's what he says here. That's not what we say. On the draft budget for 2003, we have a lot of objections, we as a member of the Soviet Parliament group, but I will try to draw your attention to just some of the most important. Like, it's pensions. The funds provided for pensions are not enough, the way the government applied pensions in early 2002 leads to genocide over a million and a half pensioners. Pensions in this month, with an average of 6,500 dinars, have not reached pension levels since December 2001. This is the policy of the government and the Ministry of Social Affairs towards this large group of people, who most often support themselves, children and grandchildren from their miserable pensions, because of course they have nowhere to work and what to live on. Unlike last and earlier years, when the average pensions amounted to about 90% of the average salary, this year the stake fell from month to month, so that with only a few months ago it would collapse below 70%. In December of last year, pensions amounted to 91%, and now only 68% of Serbia's average salary. Obviously, this pension will continue in 2003, which is a safe way of destroying pensioners. When to them, ladies and gentlemen, only the drugs aren't enough 6,500 dinars what the average pension is, but may God live them until the next election, they'll know who they'll probably give their voice to. I propose that in the 2003 budget, the pensioner's item is increased and that it should be cancelled by 1 January 2003 as soon as possible from the three-month pension adjustment with salaries and the cost of living from the previous quarter. Otherwise, if the government's current proposal is adopted, it will have fatal consequences for pensioners. In a special part of the budget, right at the beginning, it falls into the eyes that the future President of the Republic has received little money to perform such a significant function. It seems the government doesn't like any candidates and doesn't want to allow them to work properly. Imagine, ladies and gentlemen, only a million dinars or 16,000 euros have been approved for the trip of the President of the Republic. In doing so, the government is well - known that the future president cannot ride a plane for free, since he probably does not have such powerful and rich friends. Tell Chado. (Kedomir Jovanovic, from the site: Lives in Užica and there is no airport there. Thank you. The National Assembly and its professional services received much better treatment. Ten days ago, they provided a great pay start in the following year, because they selflessly increased their salaries by 10%, so they receive salaries from 25,000 to 35,000 dinars. They're receiving in one month how many pensioners in half a year. Ladies and gentlemen, in the opinion of the Soviet Union, this is indeed inhumane and shameful. The constitutional court of Serbia, it is ill-written. The government and justice minister, Mr. Vladan Batic, are not at all satisfied with his work, so the age is only 15 million dinars for 2003. With respect to the DSS 45 parliamentary mandates, they did not play as the government played them, and they were threatened with existence. As long as the court authorities are being tailored by executive authority, they must obey the government and judge how the prime minister and resolute minister command, not to stick to the Constitution and the letters of the law, so that I really think it should be. Serbia's Supreme Court has passed worse than Serbia's Constitutional Court. The extraprofit verdict will cost them dearly. They really pissed off Prime Minister and Resolute Minister Djelic and in 2003, it was a good opportunity for the government to take revenge on them and show them who Serbia's unscathed boss is. Judges of the Supreme Court think that for them it's a proper law. They're wrong. Tie the horse where your boss tells you to. That's why he's going to be put out in 2003. The federal constitutional court for the government is completely irrelevant, meaningless and useless, like some icaban, so I call that institution. The government of the Republic of Serbia planned the funds for itself as if it were going to work throughout 2003, and believe me, it will. She'll have a fall in the abyss in the spring. We all remember how recently she passed in this assembly her draft agenda for tax laws; and the referendum of a party bearing the name DHSS did not pass. That was the first yellow card. The other yellow card was December 3rd. Red, probably in the spring. When it's time for the election, the government will fall, and for now it's mostly held with the trade in votes. So this government fund should automatically be reduced by 30% in favour of pensioners. To a general surprise, the budget continues to figure out the communications bureau. The baby got fired, the Board of Auditors collapsed, and the Bureau stayed behind and still needs to figure out the entire 140 million dinars next year. What did that bureau do except make it out of one television station, I'm not going to say which, you all know what TV is, made the government's voice station. The baby went the way he did, after the first round of presidential elections, the prime minister chased him because the government candidate didn't win. Brooke is also with the Anecdote Committee, who's been investigating the god-awful incursion of someone at the Communications Bureau. He was strutting for two months in this room and on TV, and in the end, he turned tail and disappeared. It is a typical example of how irresponsibly budgets are spent, ladies and gentlemen. Are we going to find in the final account for 2002 how much this anecdote committee and its beating cost us, let's say, empty straws around this hall here? The Ministry of State Administration and local self-government should set a special condition for the use of money from the budget. By July 1st, 2003, to update voter lists in municipalities and to create a uniquely up-to-date voter list for Serbia that would be available to all citizens. With a current surplus of 600,000 virtual voters out of 50%, ladies and gentlemen, absolutely not possible. The Ministry of Agriculture and Water Management hasn't done anything in two years. That's why we're proposing, as members of the Soviet Union, that the budget be denied the rights, i.e. funds to the failure of the Ministry and to an even more unsuccessful minister, and to direct the total funds of 8314,000 dinars directly to the development and improvement of agriculture. This will also help agriculture, of course immediately and all citizens in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24990	People's MP, the time available to the MP's group has been spent.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24991	I'm done. During the allocation of funds for cultural institutions, we should actually arbitration here, ladies and gentlemen, between Mr Lecic's Culture Minister and Gorica Mojovic, who burns and burns in Belgrade's culture on the one hand and all artists, on the other. The two caused a real dispute with artists over the resources for the health insurance of independent artists. Because of the stubbornness of these bureaucrats, and I have to call them that, the artists and their families have lost their right to health care. Imagine, please, they dared to deny once Peter the King the right to verify the health book. Similarly they did, ladies and gentlemen, Milan and Aleksandar Obrenovic according to Radoj Domanovic, and we all know how they went in the end. I suggest that this tall home... (President: One minute, MP.) )......................................................................................................... It really stops and stands up to defend the rights of the Serbian artist. I'm finishing up, I'm sorry, I'm really sorry, but I have to read another sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24992	People's MP, you're done, since the time at your representative's disposal expired a minute ago and...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24993	Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24994	Thank you. The deputy president of the parliamentary group, MP Srdjan Petrovic, the DSS parliamentary gurpa, reported second.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24995	The Honorable Presidency, dear fellow MPs, is already half past nine. This was about some budget holes and that the DSS would put pensioners and other social categories in those holes. Normally, we know that the budget must be financed by pensioners and that our age structure is such that we will probably need to finance our pension fund from the budget in a fiscal way, and therefore our pensioners' pensions. When it comes to holes, budget gaps or budget gaps, that's where it's primarily thought of the gaps in the law. Budget is the law. We're talking about the 2003 budget law here. This budget law for 2003, as well as some other laws, is abundant in those holes. What are those holes? Let's say, if we look at the budget as an accounting act, then we can realize that this bill is not complete, given that it is in accordance with Article 15. The budget system law, the government was obliged to provide the Assembly with and plan to sell republican non-financial assets and basic assets for the financial year. It's not here. As well as the draft budget law. We can conclude that this new budget classification represents certainly a quality in terms of budgetary specialization. However, there are still areas on the side of income and on the side of budget expenditure that are not sufficiently fragmented or not broken down at all; I will give you an example. These are now the holes: 7451 - other revenues - 19.1 billion, 9% of total revenues. The additional revenues of the authorities and expenditures from those revenues, which are planned for about 35 billion dinars or 16% of total revenue from the budget, for which we have no reason. Subsidies to non-financial corporations (451) - 37.5 billion dinars, too, were needed to sort and explain themselves closer. The 7.5 billion dinar Transition Fund under the social security compensation from the budget had to be closer to classifying, reasoned and given in the form of the programme. Provide domestic loans and investments in non-financial assets (622) - 1.4 billion dinars; fixed assets (451) - 8.6 billion dinars. The hole, as you can see, is enough. When we speak as a legal act, Article 14. The draft budget law that we are talking about today is in dissatisfaction with the article. 68th and 69th. Serbia's constitution, as well as the legal and practical logic of the Budget Law as a material law. Namely, Articles 14. The law gives the government the right to deploy and use funds under government programmes, about 27 billion dinars. In a similar way, the funds of the agrarian budget, the funds of the Transition Fund, etc. are used. Where are you going with the bigger holes in this law? The gap in the law is that we can't compare this budget proposal to the final budget bill for 2001 and we talked about it yesterday, because we don't have reports on special government programmes, we don't have a traffic programme report, we don't have an agrarian budget programme, which my colleague Kurjački will talk about after me. So we don't have all that. Those are real holes. We can believe the word, we can trust the Ministry of Finance, which this budget on some administrative and technical side has given us a good idea, but can we trust the rest of the ministries on the word. How likely it is that the government will deploy its own resources without us here in the congregation knowing nothing about it. These are the holes the Democratic Party of Serbia is talking about. It's not like they're pensioners or anything else, which is already being said here.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24996	Prime Minister Vladan Batic, minister of justice, spoke of the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24997	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, distinguished fellow ministers, from the report by the MPs of the Serbian Unity Party, besides waving our hands like we're in some pantomime theater, I've tried to figure something out, so I'll also answer. First, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia is not in the jurisdiction of the Justice Ministry and it has nothing to do with the judicial system. Secondly, the Constitutional Court has only 9 judges, provided significant resources for the Constitutional Court's work and those working in the Constitutional Court are very pleased with the 2003 budget projection. As far as the Supreme Court of the Republic of Serbia is concerned, I must say that the judges of the Supreme Court of Serbia have profits almost double the salary of ministers in the Republic government, i.e. over 40,000 dinars, and ministers' salaries are about 25,000 dinars. The Supreme Court of the Republic of Serbia, after years of sub-optimal relations in the Republic government building, finally received a representative building modelled by such buildings in the largest European metropolis. We have agreed with Minister Djelic on some corrections for the salaries of advisers in the Supreme Court, but the funds allocated to the work of the Supreme Court are also such that the people in the Supreme Court with the projection are quite satisfied. In addition, the total budget planned for the judiciary for 2003 was around 11 billion, in 2002 it was slightly over 6 billion, which also shows an extremely caring attitude towards this part of the government. Finally, it has been mentioned in some pervasive sense, an initiative to call a referendum; I would like to remind myself that this is an initiative of 400,000 citizens of this country, that this is not an initiative by any political party. The organisation of the initiative is the Democratic Party of Serbia, but one that does not agree with the majority will of its country's citizens very quickly becomes a matter of political past.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24998	The word has a finance and economy minister, Mr Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u24999	As for the intervention of the MUP, if we look at the budget of the Republic of Serbia in 1999 and 2000 and today, its participation has been reduced and now it is much closer to some country's standards in the environment and it is true that the salaries of members of the MUP did not grow at the same speed, but it is also true that they were at a much higher level and much higher; however, there is what is wanted and I want to say it publicly, from now on, the salaries of MEP members will grow at the same rate as other members of state bodies. I said state authorities, that means ministries, and I didn't say public services. As far as the budget gaps are concerned, they're not holes, it's a classification and it's not a hole when you take what's never been in some budgets before, and that's a cross-section that's according to some economic classification, and then you can very easily see it in the divisions as it comes to these figures. I can say that there have been a number of questions that make me happy, because we see that there are great interests in these budget laws, we have prepared two documents with colleagues from other ministries and they will be shared with you tomorrow morning. One is the third version of the supplementary for the final account in 2001, where you will have, and that is already mentioned just a second ago, detailed programmes in the area of traffic, in the area of urbanism, in the area of the coordination body managed by Mr. Covic and also details regarding the economic subsidy programme, so that no question will be left without an answer and, of course, anytime, when this esteemed home asks for additional information or committees or the session itself, we will provide you with the information. The last thing, mentioned in the domain of Community funding, is something that will be and how current during which week and it seems to me that, as Mr of New Democracy pointed out, this is exactly what is predicted at this point in the Constitutional Charter, so that you can be confident that in the Government of the Republic of Serbia and this ministry we will also advocate that the expenditures at that level will be controlled in the same way as at the level of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u25000	The word came from Mrs. Social Affairs Minister Gordana Matkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u25001	I would just like to ask you to pay attention, unlike last year, pension donations are shown separately in the budget, and there are 5 billion in the budget of the Ministry of Social Affairs. These are the funds that go according to the budget law, so they are shown in two places the funding for pensions from the Republic of Serbia's budget. That's the first thing. The second thing, pensions increased when averaged what was paid last year at an annual level compared to what was paid by 50% this year. So there's a rise in the cost of life, of course. I'm not talking about real growth, I'm talking about how much pensions have grown when you look at what was paid on average last year. Just one more piece of information - you can't look at the average pension from the average salary and say what the rate of replacement is. Those who leave full-time retirement, and you all know that, have almost more pensions than they pay. On average, it's like that. The question arises whether it should be so. So it's really a matter of consensus and society's decision.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u25002	The word has been made by MP Arsen Kurjački, and followed by MP Zoran M. Angelkovic, the DOS-Reform Serbian parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u25003	The Honorable Presidency, members of the government, honourable MPs, I was just about to commend the presence of members of the government, but they are slowly crowning. I just wanted to say that they've all been gone these days. According to that people, "When money is sought, then everyone is there, and when the accounts are taken, there is no one." I was arguing about the agrarians yesterday, so I'm going to have a little talk about it today. It's a good thing the Minister of Resort is here to speak. However, it is problematic how to discuss agrarian for 2003 when it was not determined where the peasants' money went from 2001 to 2001, without the approval of this assembly, since we know there was no budget rebalance? The amount of 1,160,000,000 dinars is not anyone’s grandfather’s will, but must be held responsiblely in this assembly, through rebalancing. Not only have these funds been spent for other purposes, but there are over 800 million dinars left over, unpaid, contracted services and liabilities. Is someone going to be responsible for that kind of spending money? It means that the peasants and all the professional services they are working for the benefit of our agriculture are not only stimulated by planned means, but what has been done has not been paid in time, and the money has been, we have seen, but unfortunately spent on the other side. How do the Ministry and the Government imagine to restore the trust of peasants, how do they think to attract young people into relaxed villages, when they cut off agriculture and what she suggested, and this assembly adopted? How to discuss the 2003 budget, when 3.193,510 000 dinars were cut off for 2002, all without any explanation. This time, however, has been done with rebalancing, but the problem is that the rebalancing is by the end of the year, so the assumption is that the money has been spent on the other side long ago. But not to criticise old accounts, to discuss what we've been offered for this year. It is positive in this budget that the number of measures and activities financed from the Agricultural Budget has increased, and this has not been the case before. We have to admit that and it's not disputed. However, because of the lack of agrarian programme, these measures have no continuity or connection. It simply gives the impression that the Ministry of Individual Measures and Activities is introducing selectively and without clear goals for long-term time. It may be different, but unfortunately we were not in a position for the Ministry of Agriculture to introduce us to the results and effects of these measures so that we could say otherwise. I will refer only to a number of characteristic positions in the Agrarian budget in 2003, which I find extremely disputable: First, the financing of the work of the Expert Council for cattle farming. The funds in 2002 were 625.000 din, rebalancing to 452,400 dn. In 2003 - 22,000 dinars, a significant increase. The expert advice on livestock farming should right now be the one to give an evaluation of the work and analysis of the measures financed from the budget, and in this case it is only about livestock. Nor does this congregation, let alone the general public, know the justification for investment, nor does the effects resulting from these measures. If it is known that livestock is over 50% of the Agricultural budget, that the imputations in livestock production are tax-free, and that prices in the retailing of these products, we think primarily of meat and meat products, are not significantly reduced, the question of the integrity of certain measures is raised. What did this expert advice do in 2002, and what will it do for 2,000 dinars in 2003? These are questions that interest this congregation. Unfortunately, we did not get an answer in the materials and in Mr. Secretary's presentations. The particular question is why is there only for livestock? Don't other branches of agriculture deserve equal treatment? Another thing that's very discriminatory, which has caused a lot of controversy and dissatisfaction during this year, and it's obviously going to be transferred to next year, it's the purchase of wheat. Yesterday there was a throw that was very successful. The funds for 2000 were 430,000,000, with a rebalancing of 317 million, and for 2003 there were 212,400,000. This item in the 2002 budget had a direct impact on the creation of unequal conditions on the wheat market. The taxpayers' money, which will say businesses and citizens, is funded from the budget by privileged producers, we can say freely, buyers. Whoever has no contact with agriculture, I'll explain to him what this is about. All those in contact with agriculture knew very well this summer what the problem had been. We can say that this was all done with the blessing of the Ministry, although it was warned in time that the envisaged way of implementing this measure would cause great dissatisfaction for the wheat producer. What's this about? Namely, it is envisaged to be at an administratively established price (8 din/kg). And class and 7 din/kg. II classes)purchases 450,000 tonnes, i.e. by natural exchange of 150,000 tonnes, and by classic purchase of 300,000 tonnes of wheat. It is, for those who do not know, a symbolic quantity compared to the total production of wheat produced in our country, so that the wheat could only be sold privileged. For everyone else, which is over 80% of the peasants, there was a real market price of 5.5 - 6 din/kg of wheat for first class. In this way, the resolution minister directly violated the principles of the free market by introducing a category of privileged producers, which realised their product on much more favourable terms than most producers. In this way, we can say freely, they are free to realize the work that can be classified into the category of extraprofits. Why did I tell the buyers? That may be a bit of a tough word, but I'll explain how the principle of buying out wheat for the Stock Reserve Directorate worked. Certain ransom quotas have been allocated throughout Serbia for the quantity provided for. It was immediately seen that the quotas for Vojvodina were very small, and for some counties in central Serbia were more than enough, or needed. Someone will think it was done out of ignorance, that it is not known that the habits of peasants in central Serbia are that most of the market surpluses are stored in their houses, so it is later that through a flimsy lisp, and the habits of the farmers in Vojvodina are that all market surpluses are handed down, regardless of the price, to conditions. It's just big production, no storage space, no matter what the price. That's how it's always done. The autonomists in Vojvodina were indignant, so they said -- here again, the Serbians are cutting off the Vojvodians. But it wasn't about ignorance, or any autonomy, or the withdrawal of Vojvodina. This was simply about profit interests. The districts where quotas were not filled in in Vojvodina were bought at a free market price of 5.5 - 6 din/kg and then all privileged in these districts were sold to the Stock Reserve Directorate. You'll have to admit it's a pretty easy job, you just need to have the right people in the right place. Because that's why they weren't real producers, they were buyers, who made a significant profit with these measures. As we can see, for 2003 the same method of buying out wheat is foreseen. Apparently, everyone in this chain has been extremely pleased this year, regardless of the violent protests of the peasants of the public, who have shaken our country for months. So, in order to adopt this budget position, the Ministry must first and foremost disclose what people and businesses were involved in this, and especially to give us a way to buy out wheat in 2003, so that the situation of this year doesn't happen again. The third position, which you wanted me to comment on, is the Agenda for the Long-term Development of Agriculture and Harmonisation with EU legislation. If the previous government can be said to have run a poor agricultural policy, this current one will be remembered for not having agrarian policy at all. There may be, but this assembly has never been presented for adoption, nor has a realisation report been submitted. What does this item in the budget mean? As explained in 2002, "For hiring foreign and domestic experts to develop a long-term development programme for agriculture and aligning with EU programmes and its application", that is all they say about it. What was spent last year's funds from this position, what has been done so far on this matter and what will be done this year for 50 million dinars? These are questions to be answered. A number of criticisms have so far been heard at the expense of improvising the ministry's work, i.e. the absence of any planning documents. There is neither a comprehensive annual work programme nor a strategic view of the development of agrarians, its positioning in the economy, there is no indication, of course. Then it's no wonder neither the laws in this area nor the docks. It's embarrassing in the media to say something about the veterinary law, but as MPs, we haven't even seen it yet, let alone got it. Obviously, there is nothing from the Long-term Development Programme, and these funds are mainly used to pay foreign consultants from the company "Lendel Mills", which, sitting in the Ministry of Agriculture, are effectively spending the resources of the agrarians anyway. The question arises how long does this government plan to hold a mandate, when no agrarian programme is made up in two years? How will production rise in the next few years, which is needed for us to enter and position ourselves in the EU? With what production quotas, at what base level will we approach the EU? Anyone who understands agriculture and the EU knows that once the EU has joined the EU, it can no longer be increased and that EU funds are expected to be provided. It's a strategic issue, very important to all of us. This European association has an agrarian budget of about 50% of the general budget, and our budget is constantly moving around 3%. Of course, it can't be compared, but it's indicative. This 3% cannot contain any developmental component, with 3% no agrarian development. We are, above all, agrarian land, we will never be competitive in any production of cars, chips and similar things, but in the production of organic healthy food as much as we can. We just need a clear strategic commitment that needs to be defined by this government, including the Agrarian budget. Unfortunately, this budget continues the agony of agriculture, and the willingness to join the EU and to take a place in its agriculture that is objectively and belongs to us is absolutely speechless. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u25004	The word came from the Minister of Agriculture and Water Management, Mr. Vesenov. I ask the MPs that, regardless of the length of today's work, both their fellow MPs and ministers listen with attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u25005	Unfortunately, I haven't heard so many ignorances and untrues in a long time. I'm sorry Mr. Coward took this all out. Almost none of what he said is true, and now I'm happy he didn't become my aide to agriculture, although the DSS has run him for something like that. I can see, Mr. Kuryački, that in no way are you capable of such a place, that you might have learned something by my side, and first, not to tell the truth. First, there are no outstanding commitments in the Agrarian budget for 2001, which you said there are; there is no. Secondly, there are no delays in the payment of grants, neither in 2001 nor in 2002. Then, in no way in the 2002 budget, not two, not a billion for agriculture; because of the rebalance, but rather, in just a few days, by technical redistribution of money, which will not hit agriculture, only a loaned amount of approximately a billion dinars, which, by December of the month, cannot be spent in agriculture, partly due to the law, as regards the December milk premiums, so that amount cannot be spent in December. It won't be possible in December to spend one part of the amount on the payment of sugar beet donations, because one part of the manufacturer will unfortunately not be able to get it because of the drought that hit the sugar beet, one part won't have enough yields, and that will, of course, condition that it can't be paid, but one small part of the peasants, for the sugar beet. Then, the grant documents for the sugar beet only arrive before the end of this month or early next month, so that this amount of money, which would appear, remains in the budget, can be freely borrowed for other purposes, to some other ministry, through rebalancing, but it will in no way affect neither the payment of the milk premium nor the payment of the sugar beet grant, nor the payment of the grant for tobacco, which is also due soon to arrive, because it will all be paid out of the 2003 budget. You have said a huge lie, that there are no results in agricultural policy, but I would like to warn you that in 2001 agricultural production jumped from 2000 to 26% and that this contributed to the overall increase in social product in Serbia in 2001 5%. You have once again asked the question of expert advice in livestock. It is a useful body, I hope it will be even more useful, it is one of the few useful moves that the Socialists have made in their history of programming agrarian policy. While you weren't here, I stressed that this body was founded in 1991, it's not arbitrary, it's a law-based body, and if it's all right, I hope it contributes to livestock in 2003. You said there were no results in livestock. There is, Mr. Kuryački, and very serious results. This year, production in the organized sector increased by 11% in cattle and in pig meat by 8%. You've told another lie, there's no difference in the way the state leads agrarian policy towards wheat. I'm surprised, Mr. Kurjački, that you haven't noticed a very new, quality difference, which from now on we're going to act on wheat, where we're going to try to stimulate producers to release a part of the area under the wheat for the benefit of industrial cultures, and for the first time this year we went to that, not only the price of wheat, at which the state will buy, but also the producers that will sell wheat to the state are famous. So all you've told the truth is, you're uninformed, you don't know and it's not good what you're saying, finally and for the future of your party.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u25006	The right to reply, MP Arsen Kurjački, and the basis for the replica to be directly mentioned in the presentation of Minister Dragan Veselinov.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u25007	Of course, I won't debate much with Mr. Minister, whether I'm glad or not, but surely in that chain buying out wheat, as an assistant, I wouldn't participate. As far as untrues are concerned, Mr. Minister, in the 2002 supplemental report, the agrarian budget literally stands - transfer of commitments from 2001, division of 2 - premiums, regressions and incentives; milk premiums - 337 million dinars; farming regress - 32 million dinars; premium for tobacco production of 100 million dinars. Does it say, is it false? (Dear Veselinov, from the place: You don't understand.) Yes, yes, I don't understand; the selection measures for livestock, that's what you said the rest was transmitted, and it wasn't written what. Animal health, swine fever, 160 million dinars. Diagnosis, 60 million dinars. Foresting and the basis of promotion and forest protection 21.74 million. Other expenditures and regresses of diesel are not, and for the baker's industry, in 2000 and unsettled commitments based on current and development incentives, it also remained unsaid how much. They're all transferred commitments from 2001. So that's what I said, about 800 million dinars, and did I say the truth, you say it. And about who was pleased and who wasn't, about that way.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u25008	The word has been issued by MP Zoran M. Angelkovic, the DOS parliamentary group - Serbia's Reform, followed by national envoy Goran Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u25009	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the prominent government representatives, the general opportunities in the Serbian economy, the major deficits in the funds, both pension and social funds and, of course, the very large obligations inherited from the former regime, directly defined the frameworks of this budget and it had to be done as offered to the Serbian Parliament for adoption. Of course he has a very social category, it's certain that beyond that it couldn't go, if we want to be responsible society and if we want to solidify all the layers of our society. But besides, after this longer debate, I just want to take a quick look at the part of the agrarian budget. In fact, I would like to agree with Honorable Minister Veselinov that during the period behind us over the past two years, a great deal has been done on agriculture and agrarian policies, and in general, and above all, taxes have been taken off almost all the instructions that enter agricultural production. Secondly, we have done a great deal just because we have arranged the premiums to go extremely well on time and extremely high-quality premiums to the production of milk, sunflowers, sugar tails and everything else. To praise is certainly also the position that is now opening, which will contribute to direct subsidies in the purchase of land, because we have very small possessions, they move at the average level something about three hectares, even in Vojvodina is very little over three hectares and these are positions that are certainly of quality and that make visible progress in the part of the agrarians. I'm sure it can be said that they're both big steps and in the right direction. However, I want to say now some facts that affect agriculture in a global sense. We only have about 50,000 households dealing with clean agriculture somewhere. It's a very small number. On the other hand, all these people, all these households, are all the only private sectors that survived from 1945 until 2000, all the communists, all the ransoms, all the troubles, fraud, kidnappings, and we must very seriously treat further economic, or agrarian policy in the sense that the more we bring young people back to the country. It will be one of the most difficult problems, given that some other indicators that we should compare with the European Union, because of course we want to go there, indicate that this is a field where we should work a lot. At this point, we have about three and a half percent of the total budget as an agrarian budget, i.e. direct subsidies in agriculture. On the other hand, agriculture in the gross social product participates somewhere with about 30%, which is huge disproportionate. If we look at the most developed countries of the European Union, we can notice that up to 50% of the total budget goes in terms of direct investments and subsidies in agriculture, and that in the gross social products of these countries agriculture participates with about three to maybe 15%. We have to follow these scales globally and, as Mr. Prime Minister has said, we have to go that way, not to go some other way that will not follow our overall aspirations for European integration. So I propose that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, first of all the Ministry of Agriculture, and some global settings and global plans in the period ahead, take it very seriously and contribute to a state project that will be called - the long-term development of agriculture and which can certainly define our country as a strong agrarian country. For what reason do I say that? The moment we enter the European Union, be sure, then the Minister of Agriculture will have the most difficult negotiations right in the part of agriculture and some of our further positions, because the European Union will appreciate, or categorize two positions of Serbia and that will be the level of direct investment, subsidies and total agricultural production. In these two positions, they will define further regulation of our agriculture in terms of exchange, in terms of quotas, in the production of milk, meat and all other products exchanged in the European Union. So I repeat, it is very important that, in the period ahead of us, we start with ascending line of subsidies and find the modality of how we will make the overall situation in the country and in agriculture to the extent that young people see the perspective in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u25010	The word has a folk MP Goran Cvetanovic, followed by a national envoy, Jovan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u25011	Ladies and gentlemen, part of the bill on the Republic of Serbia's budget titled "A Memorandum of Budget and Economic and Fiscal Policy for the financial year 2003 and the next two years almost made me laugh. Gentlemen of the government, do you really think this government will put together two more years of government working in this way with such a disastrous policy, selling national wealth and all that's worth in this country for why? Do you think mass layoffs of workers, destroying businesses, impoverishing an increasing number of citizens will contribute to your reputation and popularity? When you sell the remaining sugars for a dozen euros, when you sell the few factories that are still worth and working, they'll work on hooks and hooks. Do you think "Health" workers in Leskovac are satisfied that the factory has been sold for 3.5m euros, if only the rolling stock of that factory is worth so much. Will the "Health" workers support your budget and the Memorandum of Budget and Economic and Fiscal Policy for the financial year 2003 and the next two years. In addition, what they think about your authority and your policy, the citizens of Leskovec and the entire Jablanic district have shown in the presidential elections, and on 29 September and 8 December, giving mass support to Professor Vojislav Seselj, who has won in a convincing way in all six municipalities of the Jablani County. The thus convincing victory of the SRS is expected in the local elections in Raznje, Leskovac, on December 22nd of this year. I will quote one part of the "Memorandum on the Budget": "Fiscal policy should ensure a balanced distribution of the burden of transition (I would say poverty and expected growth of poverty) to individual segments of the population. The fight against poverty takes a special place." Gentlemen, why are you speaking in general, why are you using phrases? What does that mean, to individual segments of the population. It is normal for the burden of transition to be borne primarily by those who are the most economically powerful. What can you take from someone who has nothing. You can't pay for something from workers who've lost their jobs. Do you expect your budget register to be filled with "Health" and "Neven" workers who will soon run out of jobs and pay. They won't even be able to buy bread for children, they won't be able to pay for electricity, communals, that is. nor their basic existential needs to meet. On page 47 of the Memorandum, you say, "In the transition of the economy there is necessarily a time-consistency, i.e. to an initial increase in unemployment due to the restructuring of social enterprises, on the one hand, and slower employment growth in the new private sector, on the other." Whether "Mesocombinate" workers in Leskovac who lose their jobs, and who will not be able to find a job in the new private sector in due time, will fill the budget register. Then who's going to fill the budget register? Then how will you gentlemen fight poverty? Donations? Where are the donations? If there were, what have you spent it on so far? If there are, who knows what you'll spend it on? And budget rebalances for 2002 show that donations from foreign countries are completely missing. If you are already talking about combating poverty, while at the same time having to fire workers in order to increase the efficiency of the economy, harder employment in the new private sector, how do you even imagine doing, as you say, correcting the distribution of electricity prices, utility services and so forth. Which of Serbia's citizens will have a material opportunity to pay more electricity, utility prices, etc. Are fired workers who will find it difficult to get a job in the new private sector? Government officials should think about it. You say fiscal policy must make that transition bearable and thus support the transition of the economy. In that phrase, you explain everything. And how you're gonna do that, you don't say. Let's take your word for it. Are you going to help by reducing the number of employees (relieving a large number of employees from work) and increasing the salary for the rest of them in the portfolios of the state administration, judiciary, education and health care. What about the ones who are out of a job? From which they will pay electricity, water, utility, and other basic needs for their families. Will you help those who remain unemployed in the field of healthcare by increasing the efficiency of work and rationality in this area, and spending on buying goods and services related to the supply of medicines and equipment significantly reduce. Is there little service and medicine in the area of healthcare paid in full or slightly smaller amount despite compulsory health insurance. It's not my intention to convince the government that good words and good intentions can't solve problems. Because the citizens of Leskovec and the whole of Serbia already know about the lyrics of "stupples nice choirs, but they do nothing". National MPs of the Serbian Radical Party will therefore not support the draft law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2003. This is a chance for the government to fall. That we go to new parliamentary elections, that Serbia sees and that Serbian citizens begin to live a life worthy of every man. As far as the area is concerned, I was just about to finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u25012	The word is by MP Jovan Todorovic, followed by MP Dragoljub Vojnovic. I ask the MPs that regardless of the long time we've been working today, we find a little more patience and listen to all the speakers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u25013	Dear Mrs. Comic, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, fellow MPs, although time has passed we have all been quite tired of this, I must say, interesting discussions on the 2003 draft budget law, and yet let me point to several important issues that we should take into account, above all, in the implementation of the 2003 budget. That's a lot to talk about, but... Can I finish? If you're quiet, I don't have to be loud, but it's not worth it. We're tired, right, so we can't even listen to each other now, but anyway. We're just getting started, that's right. Here, the president says we're just getting started. I have to say one thing: although there is talk here that this budget is quite tailored to the social policy of our government, we will certainly agree there, I would say that the best social policy is economic policy and that is a good economic policy. I draw my conclusion from this, and based on the data we have in this budget, that we do not have a good economic policy, however much we can talk about the presence of this social factor in this budget. That's what truth does, and I can admit it. What I'm concerned about as a man who's a little bit of a financial asset is a budget deficit. We have increased budget deficits year by year, and I just don't understand the way we think -- how we're going to cover these budget deficits in the coming years. Something has been said about this in the Memorandum, but ladies and gentlemen, 46 billion and almost 47 billion, respectively, of the budget deficit, to a pretty much 50%, consists exactly of the commitments that our Republic of Serbia has in 2003 on the basis of interest payments and on the basis of the repayment of principals. So we have to do it in 2003 and it's balanced here in the budget to return over 11 billion dinars to the principal and pay about 13 billion interest. That's over half of the total budget deficit. The worst and most worrying, these are the assumptions of future developments relating to 2001 to 2005. To be honest, I wonder why the government considered it in the first place in 2005, since it was elected for the period 2000-2004. But, anyway, there's something I can tell us. We are witnesses that from year to year we have and how there is a constantly increased payment deficit with abroad, i.e. external trade balance. Unfortunately. And here are the projections so that in 2003 we will have exports of 3,600,000, in 2004. 4.140,000,000, 2005. 4,696,000,000, a total of $12,400,000 of exports, but at the same time we have a terrible increase in imports, which is a permanent fact present in the business since 2000 and so on, and could be said in previous years. Seven billion and 107 million dollars in 2003, seven billion and 720 million in 2004, eight and a half billion and eight billion and 479 million in 2005, in total in three years - 2003, 2004 and 2005, we will introduce goods for over 23 billion dollars, while performing 12 billion and 400 and creating a deficit in the external trade balance of nearly $11 billion. In doing so, there is no help in the fact that the Prime Minister mentions today's citizens have about 4 billion euros somewhere in their straws and not in the banks. Four billion euros corresponds to approximately $4 billion. In these three years, we will actually force the people to spend four billion euros, and then we will use them with a liberal import policy to import goods that are objectively not in the function of growth in economic production during this period planned. And again, we're going to miss about seven billion dollars. How are we going to solve this problem to have this level of imports at this level of exports planned over the next three years? By, apparently, re-entering new responsibilities and financing from these new responsibilities some things that are not necessary. It's this dark perspective that comes out of this foreign trade balance here. In this regard, we do not have any single incentive in the budget for the economy that is export-oriented. If I was wrong, someone would correct me in all of this, but no production that was export-oriented was even stimulated by the Transition Fund, not to mention the Agrarian budget, because I would ask Minister Veselinov not to happen in 2003 that we were not able to spend what the National Assembly approved us and that we had free funds that could be rebalanced again for some other purposes, as was the case today when we discussed how to finance television in 2003, so we allocated a billion and nearly two billion from the Agricultural Budget, respectively, to settle the costs of RTS. Then we're talking about good agri-economic policy, we're talking about good conditions in agrarian, as if we've forgotten that these aren't the only incentives that can seem to develop agriculture. What about the water industry? What about irrigation? What about preventing the flood? What about building defensive dikes, what about building roads to approach rural households, what about investing in machinery, etc. So it's not just that this budget provides for stimulant only to be used. Well, if we don't take advantage of that too, then you really asked the question, did we do our job right to the end? Please, solution, this is where they ask me for a solution. Of course the Socialists have a solution. Mr. Djindjic spoke as one true socialist. I'd be willing to join him very quickly and gladly, because today he spoke in such a way that whoever doesn't know he's the Prime Minister must have thought he was a Socialist. I don't mind that he took part in our program to join his party in the Socialist International, but I do mind that, from that story, there's little in this document, especially in the memorandum. So that's a problem for me. What's the solution, Mr. Sutanovac? The solution is that the 15 billion dinars we're going to collect based on privatisation are not spent on office material, electricity, phone costs, etc. The truth is, Mr. Vlahovic said and it stands here in the budget, 6.5 billion will be invested in the transition fund. Why not all 15 billion? One more thing, which means a transition fund if we're going to use those 6.5 billion for human severance only to get out of work for good. So it's not an economic programme, it's just a social programme that doesn't have that economic dimension in it, but it has a policy dimension that says: I pay you off and I take you off the back of this country. With this money, no job can be started, nor can any economic policy be established in a single household. So that's the solution. What else is the solution? The solution is that this government finally appears before the international community with a request to compensate for war damage in 1999, which is certainly greater than all budget deficits in the past, in this and which will be shown in the coming years. It's bigger than four total budgets for the Republic of Serbia. We do not have that courage, and perhaps it is not the time, as Mr Ceda Jovanovic would have said, to refer such a request to the international community. The solution is for the international community to meet its obligations and six billion dollars to give us, and that's how it promised you when you came to power. And not in the next three years in 2003, 2004, we have a total planned direct investment in the Serbian economy of just about a billion and 600 million. That's the solution. A solution to fight to keep your promises and then you will have a budget that is completely balanced and that will not be deficiently financed.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u25014	The word is made by MP Dragoljub Vojnovic, and then by MP Milan Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u25015	Are you ready to throw? You're not. Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, there's no rush. I'll start with one remark, because that's how I want to get closer to this non-closed matter, which is something that Mr. Prime Minister said in the third report. It's just that he's equated some things that can't be evened out, not because someone's better, and the other one's worse, I don't mind. It bothers me that he said or so, that it is the government that has the right to deploy, I don't know, for pensioners, for this, for that, in the sense that it is not Parliament who should decide more closely. I think, Mr. President, that you and your team need to re-evaluate information about where to spend what we need to decide how to spend and where to spend it, based on the arguments. That's the premise I'm going to talk about right now. Therefore, the law on each country's budget, to make a small introduction, and Serbia is one of the most important laws, because it should provide a projection of further movements, at least in a few years. Secondly, in some countries, and you know it better than I do, not just to see if and what means will be allocated, but what will be the effect of these funds on different actions. Hence, my smallness has taken the budget to discuss from a aspect that is possible for this budget to operate in an area called public service. Mr. Minister, this is the area of health, which I consider to be, and I always said it was an area of special social interest. I'm a public service term and it doesn't matter. I'm going to talk about the impact of this budget on science. Well, let's see, I'm not dealing with numbers. I will mainly deal with a memorandum that is part of this budget law, and part of the budget relating to the financial plan of the Republic Health Insurance Institute. I will immediately begin with a quote on page 62 of the accompanying memo: "Health protection will be rationalized and made profitable". It follows immediately: "By the end of 2002 a study on the situation of households and an assessment of poverty levels should be made, and by June 2003 (this is already proposed) a strategy to combat poverty." Whether, Mr. Minister, by chance or not, poverty only goes to health. I totally understand that. Well, let's see one of the following quotes: "In 2002, the mass of wages in the public sector will be reflected in a constant attitude towards the gross social product, with a tendency to increase after the reorganisation of public services and their release from surplus labour." That's page 69. I ask, how does the government intend to do it and in what way? The way he thinks, he can do it, first, with the means he has, second strategy he has and third, he can do it with the regulation he needs to implement in a particular area. And here I'm talking about the area of health care. Well, let's see about the strategy later. Do we have regulation, and now I'm talking to Mr. Minister in the field of health? Are we the law, and we've talked a little bit before, and you're recently the minister, the laws in the field of health care you've passed? We almost brought only cosmetic changes to the Health Protection Act, and then he couldn't fit in with the Labour Act, because we didn't define overtime and duty. And where's our drug law? The chamber law? I hear there's already an agency that's about to give licenses. Where is the health insurance law, etc. I believe it's all right and it's all coming together. There is no way to do this, this regulation, without one legal basis. Well, let's move on now. Now we're going to get some numbers. (From O.R.: Don't. Oh, I will. I'd like to analyse these figures from the revenue, or expenditure provided for in the Health Insurance Fund, where the following is said. For the medical and political dispensary roles of 24 billion dinars and 23 billion for stationary treatment. It's 68 billion, Mr. President. It's not about the budget. On the budget there is Mr Djelic, and every honour for him, for the first time this year he gave about 1.5 billion people displaced, not covered by health care, but let's now see if from this data can, Mr. Minister, develop a strategy. Do you have any information on the number of health employees? Your assistant on one of the Health Committees said he didn't have any. If this were to be broken down into what the medical salary is, then you'd already get information on how many nonmedical staff there are. According to some indicators, it is about 30% of non-medical staff, and then a strategy or reform of health employment is made. Furthermore, if we're talking about stationary facilities, it's not broken down here either. There is talk of consumption in stationary institutions and these are expenditures. If we don't have where it's spent, then you'll have a case of having about 7,000 beds in Serbia. For what? For dermatovenerology, at least that's what they say, but you have a lack of bed for cardiovascular disease. In that same department you have for surgical interventions. According to some of the indicators I have, some surgical institutions are participating with only 3% of the total surgical interventions in percentages. I'm asking if we need them. Where's the reform? Where's the strategy? Do we need such facilities? How are you gonna do that? What are these capacities? What capacity are you going to revise? So these are the things I wanted to point out and repeat, just from clear data. It's not like we're messing with MPs here. No, we can draw conclusions from the data and see if you're ready, whether there's a reform, whether there's even a beginning of reform, whether there's any intention of reform or not, and what the strategy is. If it's one of the prevention strategies, then let's see what kind of health care package we're going to give people with this kind of income level. So, all in all, we can look at the figures one way or another, but these numbers don't come out and we can't prove that you're starting reforms in one of these important areas and what we say we have reforms, we can't accept that. We have to prove it. Now I'd like to take a brief look around, if that's the case in health care, it seems to be similar in science. There's no Mr. Domazette. Some things he didn't explain, so I won't return to them, but I can say that after the formation of the new government in January 2001, and Mr. President knows, temporary financing of research institutions was continued, those founded by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. This temporary funding was at the level of project financing or institutional financing. These projects were practically institutional, because projects, almost everyone, were accepted just so people would have to receive salaries. The funds are now being offered, though with the increase, are now 0.3 national gross income, and it was 0.26, but there are still no strategies to fund scientific projects. Something Mr. Minister said. I think that should show, because scientific projects aren't being created in a year. Scientific projects must be in debt, forecasts and investments, as must health investments. I can ask you if you will finish your maternity leave in Pozarevec, if at least the completion of the Clinical Centre in Nis, Belgrade, etc. will begin. All of this must, to say Mr. Djelic, be transparent, so that we can give you the green light, Mr. Minister, that's how it will be and the government will do it, and then in the final account we'll say whether it's right or wrong. That goes for science. The way science is financed has to be arranged differently, and in order not to further debt, I have no objections to numbers, and in my opinion it would not be good to spill, as Mr. Prime Minister said, from this to that conto, but what I stand for and what this government says is reform, it must show us with an expression transparently what it is up to, with which projects and what resources it is, and not just like this jumbles, as they say.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u25016	The word has a health minister, Mr. Tomica Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u25017	Dear ladies and gentlemen, a series of these questions I could ask as a health minister the Members of Parliament, what has been done since January 2001 to pass system laws in health care and what has been done to start a reform of the health system, if necessary. It is indisputable that it is necessary, because the system is pre-named, because it combines the primary, secondary and tertiary levels, because there is no elemental data. Up until two months ago, there was no record that 85% of Serbian doctors were specialists. Until three months ago, volunteer specializations were approved, as anyone wanted and as much as he wanted. Until these attempts to change, every hospital could have walled up suddenly and spread suddenly. So I could ask why no initiative has been launched in this assembly since January 2001 to work on these laws. How's the fact thing going? The drug law, which is the first harmonised law with the laws of the European Union, ends these days of discussion, is actually the last meeting with representatives of pharmaceutical and pharmacology circles tomorrow, and the law will be the first system law in health, which will be ready for the National Health Council by the end of December, January for the government and afterwards for the assembly procedure. The day before yesterday at the Serbian Doctor's Society Assembly and afterwards at the session of the Serbian Doctor's Society's Presidency, the Committee for the Review of All Proposals of the Chamber Law concluded its work by consensus that the proposal of the ministry of this law would be one that would pass the same procedure as the drug law. By the end of the year, the law on food safety and the rule on out-of-body fertilisation is concluded, and it is intensively involved in the preparation of amendments to the Health Protection Act, which will include changes in participation at the beginning of the year, changes in terms of defining an optimal package of services. What does that mean? The law today says that health care in Serbia guarantees every citizen at all times free of charge. It's an illusion and a utopia in law. If we define that we guarantee in primary protection everything without participation, then it will be a list of services that will thus be obtained at the primary level, at the level of home health. The law will also imply the demonstration of a monstrosity structure made several years ago, that the health minister is the head of the health system and that he is setting up 290 directors at his discretion, rather than returning the institution of a normal competition with a limited mandate and forming at the regional level of health councils, which must in some way be a filter between health institutions and the ministry. All of this was said on the Committee on the Health of the Republic Assembly, one part in the preparation of this session of the Assembly, but I will, of course, repeat these things one more time. How's the money thing going? Of course, the analysis shows that out of 130,000 people in the healthcare system and 30% of non-medical staff there are major disagreements. The overall use of bed capacity in Serbia is 65%. However, there is a hospital where it is 40%, there are hospitals that have 800 beds and that never in the year have more than 450 patients. A health care development strategy will be published by 2010 in January. The end of March and early April is the term for a future network of health institutions, which will be based on modern criteria of the number of beds and on the medical work of orientation more than hospital. Then the real restructuring of hospitals will begin. What money? In the meantime, it's certain we need more equipment to irradiate malignant patients. That tender ends tomorrow. There's a definite conclusion in the government. The bill is paid by the end of the year and five centres are given new equipment. Since January, the purchase of ambulances, angeography, nuclear magnetic resonances and the necessary equipment that is budgeted with a sum of a billion and 500 million dinars from our sources. What about hospitals, emergency interventions that haven't been done in the past 12 years? In 20 hospitals, 25m euros will be invested by the European Bank from Vranj to the north, from east to west, after a careful study. That's another $15 million investment from the World Bank. It is a total of 40m euros to be invested in regional hospitals. You asked about the clinical centers. On the internet, anyone can check, in November, information has been uploaded that an international tender for a functionality study is being launched in December, or, as the Anglo-Saxons say, a feasibility study of clinical centres in Belgrade, Novi Sad and Nis. The European Agency for Reconstruction financed the study with 300,000 euros. That study will last all this year. Clinical centres will be rationalized, reduced bed capacity. We need to look ourselves in the eye. It goes along with a minimum package of services, with the reorganisation of services, with more significant participation. Of course it's not the end of the reform. It's a start, and the reform will last for the next 10 years. No system ever completes health reform once and for all, but it is constantly perfected. So my answer to your question is -- we'll end them on a more rational level. We'll end up in Novi Sad, primarily. It was built by the municipality of Pozharevec, without the consent of the Ministry of Health. Now our inspections analyze whether these facilities are necessary for that hospital and to assess what they are most needed and most useful, so they will be used to do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u25018	The word has been issued by MP Milan Radulovic, followed by National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u25019	Dear Members of the People, gentlemen of Ministers, on the question of the proposal of the Republic of Serbia's 2003 budget, it seems to me to be the easiest and easiest, but rich and quite correct answer: the 2003 budget is the same as the 2002 budget. However, when a man compares numbers, there are some changes in nuances. Not the same items in all divisions; there are some new items within one division. But the ideological basis of the budget is exactly the same. The ideological basis of this budget, Mr. Prime Minister, has explained very carefully. That explanation, if you allow me to paraphrasise, reads like this: the Republic of Serbia inherited from socialism a uniformly extended social policy system, a very large social rights, which once covered a stable economy and economy that was in a better environment, so it could support and finance this ambitious social system. The government of the Republic of Serbia has decided not to deny any of these social rights found, that all these rights continue to be financed, as the Prime Minister also said, as some ministers also mention not to leave the economy to itself. Don't leave the economy to the market. In one word, a typical socialist program. Even so, the prime minister, as a student of the Frankfurt school and a student of Habermas, calls the socialist system social solidarity, social compassion and social justice. It's all nice. That is some progress in interpreting the socialist idea. However, what remains of this idea and what remains of these budgets? This budget shows that Serbia has no strength, no political will and no determination to step out of the Socialist system. Mr. Prime Minister has elaborated the benefits of this system very well today. He called on pensioners, he called on poor educational workers who had small salaries. With pleasure and right, he pointed out that university professors already have relatively decent incomes. It's all something that's obvious, and it's all commendable. But the Prime Minister here has burdened us with a quasi dilemma. I think he knows it's quasidile. This quasidile is: socialism or wild liberalism. I couldn't believe the president of the reform government in Serbia used the "wild" epithet in 2002 with the notion of liberalism. He explained to us what wild liberalism is. Wild liberalism is when the government does not raise money from taxpayers into funds and does not help poorer and more powerless populations, when it does not help those who are unable to choose on the labour market for their existence and leave the full initiative to economic operators. However, Mr. Prime Minister knows well that there is no state in Europe where taxes are not paid, and there are countries that have a liberal economy. So taxes are paid everywhere, both in the liberal economy and in the socialist economy. The liberal economy and the democratic system differ from the socialist system in a way that distributes what is collected from taxpayers; they also differ in how they create an external, so-called external, so-called external, so-called tax system. a macroeconomic environment in which economic operators operate. In the liberal economy and democratic societies, taxpayers' funds are allocated to socially powerless layers: they are deployed to both health care and education and pension funds (although much less in pension funds). There are solid rules there how it's done. There are budgets that have been pre-planned, as your finance minister does. But there is also control of how budgets are spent. There are laws on ministers, and not only about ministries, laws which accurately foresee the rights of one minister, but also about his responsibilities and which criminal measures threaten him if he is unable to explain each of his expenditure items, to say that this money has gone here and there and that the benefit of the taxpayers' money is being sent here and there, contained in that too. So, the taxpayer gave money to the government, the government gave someone, and from that someone got a favor or a good one. Do we have such a law, do we have such a mechanism of control? Yesterday, gentlemen, we discussed how the government was collecting money in 2001, how the money was being deployed, what it spent it on and what we got as a society. When we discussed it, only the finance minister sat here, who couldn't explain almost a single expense by day. No specific question has been answered by a man because he can't know every expense that's been made in any ministry. But today, when the government asks us for money, when we ask for trust to tell them: and next year you collect money from taxpayers, set it up like you planned with your budget, and you will finally report to us - today all ministers are here. The chronicle of parliamentary life in Serbia is full of strange stories. That's how yesterday's event: so that a government doesn't come to the Assembly, when its final bill is adopted, will enter the chronicle. In the last 45 years, however, there have been many such governments. This is not the first, but all Serbian citizens hope this is the last government that does not come to the Assembly to explain its cost, and it comes when it is due to explain the budget. We would have heard a lot more from the ministers yesterday, and everything they said today, they could have told us yesterday, and they could have brought out their next year's programme to explain to us what was going on in 2001. So a democratic, liberal system requires strict control of the spending of funds. That's the whole point. As for what is called the macroeconomic environment, the environment the government creates, in which business operators, the socialist system and the liberal, democratic system will also differ. Today's Serbian government, it is fair to admit, has had very solid successes in ensuring macroeconomic stability. But what is the purpose and purpose of macroeconomic stability? Its goal is to get into this framework, a stable framework, investment, to get into small, medium, large, and I don't know what other businesses, that people who have money invest in that framework. Mr. Prime Minister complains that there are not enough investments in Serbia and says to the lady we have four billion euros in our pockets, but our people are not going to invest in our economic system, although it is very stable, and it explains it with a psychological component. People have lost confidence in the system. The psychological component certainly does not need to be ignored, but there is no need to completely ignore the fact that this people, people, the younger generation, the middle generation, a part of my generation's people, don't believe in any socialist system anymore, not even one that tries to modernise. It's not possible to believe in that system. In order for people to invest in that space, the stable space the government has provided, the government has to build market economy mechanisms, it has to build institutions, economic institutions, which will guarantee people that their money, if not completely safe, and that at least that it has entered into one normal risk, where it may be able to fertilise, maybe decrease a little, today to increase a lot, and tomorrow to completely lose - but the rules are known in advance and the risks are pre-accounted. Also, that framework would have to have one legal certainty. How can someone invest in a country where no private property has yet to be recovered, in a country where no denationalisation has been made, and now the nationalised property is privatized. Who invests in a country that sells businesses, then draws money from these companies into their funds, spends it for social purposes, or plans to return them to the economy? What's this about? It's about the government, gentlemen, meddling a lot in the economy. Instead of building market economy mechanisms and legal certainty for economic operators, it relies on its economic ingenuity, moral enthusiasm, political volunteerism, and believes that the best money of taxpayers will be made available by it. It's not good for the development of the economy. People know that, and that's why people can't and won't invest in such a business system. The whole wisdom is that, instead of our regulations, our sometimes very high-level economic decisions say: we will build market economy mechanisms, we will establish the legal certainty that exists in other economies, we will withdraw from the economy. There's no reason for the government to stay out of business. Until then, we will not invest in our economy. So Mr. Prime Minister really put us in front of a false dilemma. There is no question here: the social state, the social solidarity society, or, as he calls it, wild liberalism. Here's the question - are we for socialism and for a government that has the power to interfere in everything, or are we for a democracy that will establish rules on how money is made and how it is deployed? It's a dilemma. And it is no demagogy to say that it is possible to withstand this same social system, and thus create better conditions for business. The government doesn't have to invest in the economy. Don't ask anyone from the government to invest in the economy. The government is only asked that taxpayers' money properly deploy, and that businesses create an ambience to make money with their knowledge and intelligence, and then more money for social funds will be more money for education, and then we won't be in a situation where science and education, like in all underdeveloped countries, are the cost. The cost, instead of our knowledge, is investment in development.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u25020	There is a word from the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Zoran Djindjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u25021	I like this good mood. Finally one reason for a little enthusiasm with you, sometimes life is unfair, but there are bright moments. So two or three things we need to clarify, because it's important, it's really well-intentioned and I respect these arguments, but we need to consider them on the other hand. First of all, about control, which has nothing to do with the concept and philosophy and the budget and the social policy that we have. There must be control, any policy, and there should be control in the dictatorship, in democracy, and in any business there must be control. I wouldn't tie that to a democratic character. I think it's our duty to build such mechanisms of control that, regardless of the ideological content of politics, the control of money above all is completely free and perfect. We have the law established rights that are financed from the budget, and we can make a decision as parliament, that it is wrong, that the right is maintained. Then it wouldn't mean that we are changing it through the budget, but that the Pension Insurance Act, the Social Rights Act, are changing, which would then cause, of course, the impact on the budget; we wouldn't have an obligation in the budget that, if those rights can't be achieved through their regular channels, then they'd be realized through the budget. So if we want to change this system, then we change it through a change of law, not through a vote on the budget. (loud from the O.R. - legalists. You can really believe we're legalists. Unlike you, we're really legalists. Shall we skip that link? So we can discuss it, and I think that this debate is completely legitimate; to say, it is understood that this assembly is owned by that and the laws change, and the question is, is it supposed to do that, should we question one system of rights acquired, such as the right to pensions, as is the right to savings; and to say - if we have succeeded at the Paris Club, to reduce our debts by two thirds, why not reduce our debts to citizens by two thirds? That's what foreign creditors tell us; they say -- you know what, if we turned down two-thirds of your debt to you, why do you think you should pay your citizens back one for one foreign savings; why do you think you should pay back to social categories what is due to the government, the whole amount; why do you think that within your economy debts should be beaten on that nominal basis; why don't you bring the Paris Club back into your country and say -- the currency savings is 33% back, and 66, 67%, as was the Paris Club, it's written off, because that was the time. So it's possible. Those are possible arguments. I'm against it, and I think we should also take care of the social state of that population. If we talk to America to write off 65% of our debts, then America won't be hungry if it does. If we're talking to our pensioners or our foreign savings, I'm not sure if any of them are going to spend their last 10 years of their lives in misery, just because we've accepted one principle as universal, and in fact it can't be universal. If that is what you want, set up that bill and that is how this congregation can be declared. Then it has to be one clean principle, let's say -- we accept clean market conditions, on the world market we managed to reprogramme our debts and define it that way, we'll do it on the domestic market; it's possible to do it economically, but I think it would be a social injustice. The law lays down these rights, and only by law can the rights established be financed through the budget in this way. The process of various spending is also defined by various regulations and legislation, the law on procurement, and I think this assembly unanimously voted on tenders, and any proposal that leads to increased control of budget spending is welcome. Surely it is not perfect for this proposal, which the Ministry has made, but it has made huge progress in relation to the previous situation and puts our country in line with other cultural countries; however, these countries in transition after 6, 7 years have passed these laws that we have now passed after two years, which means about public procurement, about the tender, about the procedure of purchasing control. If there are any suggestions to increase that control, we are ready to accept it. Denationalisation; of all privatization companies, one amount of 5% is allocated to a fund from which former owners, these companies, will be compensated. Someone says -- and why don't we get those companies back; they may now, by their own name, be those companies that used to be, "Toza Mrarkovic," or what they called "Sartid", which are no longer those companies that were 50 years ago. Why don't we try to fool these companies to the owners? Because litigation over who owns it would take 10 years, which would stop one normal process and make people who work in these companies disabled in relation to people who work in other, normal social enterprises. Surely this owner, if he cares about that company, like he left 45 or 50 years ago, he won't find it the way he left it, it's changed a lot. If he cares about ownership, he will get real property in money that will certainly be enough to make up for it. Not in other countries, this was a fair approach that allowed former owners to participate financially now in the privatisation process and to exercise the right to their former property. Now we come to this key issue - socialism or liberalism, or democracy, etc. If we want a state of social justice, then we must, on the other hand, go into socialism and give up democracy, and I think that social justice is the essence of democracy, and that's exactly how we try to achieve it; not social justice by equating income, but social justice by creating relatively equal, starting conditions, and by trying to make those layers of the population, who can't participate in that game or still can't, society helps, and how different it is from tax and budget. It's for me in these conditions of transition social justice that doesn't lead to socialism. What's socialism? Socialism is an economic arrangement based on state, or in any case, not private property in the economy, based on not marketable, i.e. controlled prices and are based on one of the financial systems of political lending and banks in office of the state. Do we today have this socialism as a system in Serbia, we don't have it. We don't have that socialism. Is, right now, if we don't have that socialism, the alternative to what you're proposing is, what I called wild liberalism. No, there is a possibility within one democratic market arrangement, a larger or smaller regulation of the market by the state, i.e. The authorities, to sort things out. Ladies and gentlemen of the Wild Liberals, Richard Nixon had a law on price and salary control in 1971. Richard Nixon is like the president of the Republican Party a greater liberal than you. He had a law at one point in the American economy that controlled wages. They couldn't pay to define themselves on the market, but they did it by the government; call it a socialist, it corresponds to your understanding of reality, but he was a man very conservative and very liberal. Today in the United States, there are 138 state regulatory agencies that monitor and regulate everything from telecommunications to the supply of chewing gum on warehouses and who know at any moment how many raw materials are in which warehouses are located and every moment in the transport of which raw materials are important for the American economy. Is that socialism? No, it's one, in my taste too well-organized economy, with too much state involvement in the economy. Our economy is ten times less regulated than the American economy. What we can do for our economy as a government is 1,000 times less than the American government does for the American economy. The U.S. government gives every day two billion dollars in subsidies to American agriculture. She introduced such fees on imports of steel to have a war with the European Union. After 9/11, the U.S. government gave thousands of billions of dollars to the U.S. air industry. Are those interventions? It's liberalism, it's defending its national economy. Each country must defend its national economy, because there is no national independence without a national economy. We can't do it as much as we want because we don't have the money, because we don't have the reserves, and the financial reserves are spent in this country, and that's why we do it very modestly. The question, how many governments should participate in the economy, is the question you need to ask the economy. So, don't as philosophers discuss metaphysically how much it takes for the government to help the economy, but let the businessmen say. For every businessman in Serbia you find and who says that the government interfered with his business, and he doesn't like it, I'll find you 10 people who beg to get involved with him, but we can't because we don't have the capacity, we don't have the money. Hundreds of them would love, not just money, but advice, support, some idea, contacts with some international institutions, and unfortunately we can't meet all these demands because the government doesn't have enough capacity. So, I think it's a story, let the market go, because it's just going to regulate its relationships, it's going to talk about little kids. There are only a few countries in the world that, after 200 or 300 years, are able to function in one normal way, and that people do not die on the streets of hunger because of such a market that works in such a way. We must very carefully assess how much we can not burden all citizens of Serbia through tax, how much money we can focus on those social categories of population who, not on their own fault, have come into a situation that they cannot live on their incomes. These are on the one hand pensioners, on the other hand social contributions and on the third hand these budget-funded functions, such as health care, education, judiciary, police. That's it. Everything else is a little bit of a budget. It's the core of the budget. The government's proposal is to run a very careful policy in relation to those parts of our society, because those in one market business, where those who have the strongest elbows win, these parts of our society will be losers of transition. That's not supposed to happen. I think that so far in this period of transition, no one can say for themselves that, because of the harsh policy of this government or this assembly, this legislation, he is a loser of transition and that reforms are actually a very bad solution for him. So there's a maneuvering space, not a very big one, that one reform policy is being conducted that we do, and that's why we have the recognition of international experts, while at the same time practicing social solidarity, and this budget is proof that we are doing it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u25022	I thank Mr. Prime Minister. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic. Did you mention that? [[Sagar.]] I'll check your stenographic notes and see if you mention it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u25023	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Djindjic, it was unnecessary for you to take away this much time and replicate your colleagues from the DSS because they were your coalition partners, they voted for your government, and how much time you'll be together again tomorrow. Allow us, the representatives of the only real opposition, the patriotic opposition bloc Let's point to our suggestions. [[growls]] Of course, you're not going to listen to all the things that we've seen in 2003, but as absolutely unacceptable things in the projection of the 2003 budget. One responsible government, the responsible government, planning revenue and expenditure items in the financial year that is yet to come, must know, and you have said in part today, that many such policies also determine the economic flows in our country. However, you did not give us any striking assurances, except for some delusions as last year, which concern economic growth and improvements for employees in Serbia. If we are talking about this megalomanical budget project, in the opinion of Serbian radicals, and I am confident to the Serbian public, you must bear in mind that this number of planned funds, which Alexander Vlahovic mentioned today, for investing in economic flows, of six and a half billion dinars, are not only not enough when it comes to having a large number of jobs to be fired and minimum severances that you need to pay them, but also because of the fact that the growth of industrial production, which you are planning and showing us in this contribution to the budget, cannot satisfy the basic condition to fill this projected budget, which is to collect taxes so that you can plan such high income items, and thus also expenditure. The budget deficit, in your opinion of 3.8% of the total social product, which you boast and say is not so bad, is in nominal terms high, because of what I think happened this year, you will not be able to achieve such a projected budget with such a deficit for 2002. We were talking about this this morning -- the projected budget was 234 billion, and you managed to move it somehow to 217. That's because you won't get a full quota of promised help from your Western mentors. I'm just surprised how possible it is, very little time for every member of the SRS to tell us about the loans, about the help, about the experts from the West, who help you carry out your more than arrogant, economic policy and the defeating most of all for our country's workers, when it comes to seeing that when you came to the prime minister's post and these coalition partners from the DSS, you and Kostunica were talking about six billion dollars of non-refundable US aid. Why are you now distracting us with the loans you need to get and explain first of all to your neighbor that it's not fair, it's your slogan, that he's moving from downtown to New Belgrade to educate the children, means he's selling his apartment, and that everything else he spends to support his family, and you, Mr. Djindjic, are not selling anything and from the center to go to the Dedinje, and God will soon give you a return to that center or who knows where your journey is.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u25024	I ask MP Radulovic to wait for me to check in the stenographic notes, you will be entitled to a replica, I will check. The word is from MP Srdjan Petrovic. (Employer Radulovic and a group of MPs detest. I'm waiting for the secretary to bring me the stenographic notes. You won't be damaged. The word is from MP Srdjan Petrovic. Is he present? No, it's not. ) The word has a People's MP Radojko Petric, an SPS parliamentary group. (Employer Radulovic continues to resent, a group of MPs also, sagor. The People's MP, Dejan Michael, is advocating the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please, MP of the People, Dejan Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u25025	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, is not the same when you give someone a replica tomorrow morning because of what is being said today and when it is completely out of context. If we have to wait until tomorrow morning for a stenogram, then eventually...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u25026	In ten minutes, I'll get my stenographic notes. [[Sagar.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u25027	In ten minutes, well, just when you just don't talk about this anymore. The point is to talk about it now when it's a topic, not in 15 minutes, and I would simply ask you to give Mr. Radulovic a chance to speak. It was incorrectly interpreted as his exposure i.e. parts of his exposure. So, simply, there are more than enough grounds for replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u25028	Please, the right to a replica has been given by MP Milan Radulovic, to trust the president of the parliamentary group on the floor, although he finds it hard to believe, given the consultations and the agreements.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u25029	Except for the wrong interpretation, let's get a little bit more straight. I will go to sleep more peacefully tonight because Mr. Prime Minister has promised not to restore socialism in Serbia after all. Then, contrary to what is in the stenogram, he explained that economic liberalism means economic freedom, not economic savagery. A good man understands what a liberal economy is and understands that the liberal economy and social solidarity society are not good and evil, that they are not opposing and excluding processes, but that they are often compatible in modern society. So what you've set up as a manchai quasidil: socialization of social justice society or wild liberalism -- it's a false dilemma, and you know it, and you've explained it nicely. But you've misinformed me, so people can get the impression that the DSS is in favour of reducing and abolishing social rights. It's not. We're in favour of reducing the government's rights, to reduce the rights to the government. [[Sagar.]] Those rights would be reduced, not social rights. Here's what we'd like to reduce the rights. [[Applause]] Instead of regulations, we would ask you, and that is what we will do, to pass laws that will establish market mechanisms. They don't regulate, of course, only the economy market, but they regulate economic institutions. Do we have theinstitutions? We don't. Do we have a modern political system? Do we have a law on political parties? Is funding parties the source of corruption? Do we, Mr. Prime Minister, have a conflict of interest law... In which state can a minister or an MP be on the board of directors? Well, Serbia had before 1914 a conflict of interest law. It's not possible because a schizophrenic situation is being created, Mr. Jovanovic. If you are a member of the Management Board, you must protect the interests of the system or of the company in which you are a member of the Hope Committee. If you are an MP, you must treat all economic entities the same. You will try to push through the law in parliament that will benefit your company: either you will fail your company in which you are a member of the board of directors if you do not, or you will fail the position of MP if you do so. So it's not possible. It's not possible for both of us. We don't have a whole series of laws that really still have to be reformed by the political system. With the reform of the political system, we will get a government that will undermine all social obligations, but its rights, its influence and its impact on the economy will be reduced. Don't convince me that businessmen are complaining that the government is interfering with the economy.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u25030	I'm warning you of an overrun of the time allowed.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u25031	The liberal economy is demanding that the political oligarchy, which has ruled this country for 60 years, be put on the border, that it know once as long as it can, and what it can no longer. Nothing else needs a liberal economy.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u25032	Right on line, MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u25033	Mrs. Micic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I appreciate my colleague from the DSS not only for years but also for the way he does his job. He's always been responsible for discussing these stenograms and notes that are behind us are evidence of all this. I'm just asking you not to leave anything unsaid between us. It is impossible to implement reforms without reformers and it is impossible to create a modern political system without the willingness to bend sleeves and actively participate and work. Above all, it is the emphasis of patriotism and love for the country, respect for the people, while doing all that is contrary to it. All day long we've been listening to lessons about the government's unpreparedness or us as MPs' majority to make an account for something we've been doing. The DSS didn't participate in a discussion yesterday that discussed the account. You had some party priorities that had nothing to do with this parliament. Therefore, do not speak to us today and impute that kind of indiscretion in this way. For a year, I worked within our coalition on the job of meeting those legal obligations that we faced as new authorities and which require us to form boards. So we spent 90% of our time fighting the DSS, which has always sought the most responsible places on boards, regardless of the criteria that apply. I can give you a number of places where we have trampled those criteria for political peace within our coalition. If we were wrong somewhere, we were wrong to think that something could change, which is unchangeable. As we could not change Serbia with Milosevic, so we cannot change with those who are Milosevic's shadow If not because of what they're doing, then because they feel comfortable in its environment. [[growls]] This is a budget debate, this is a debate on public finances, not a political lecture on socialism or the liberal economy, if you think it rules out one another, it doesn't rule out. If you think it's possible to create an advanced society in this country through floscule, dishonesty, demagogy, then you'll actually do what has been done in this country for the past 50 years and what you point to as something that is bad. This country didn't fail because it had no potential or that it couldn't handle it. She fell apart because of the bad people who led her. I want to tell you so much, and I don't think I hurt you. I respect what you are doing, but there is a lot of difference between what you have done and what your parliamentary group does in this House.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u25034	Injury of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u25035	On behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I would ask Mr Jovanovic, as well as other members of the DOS, that if they want to conduct political accounts with their former coalition partners, who still are, they do so publicly. The assembly is a place for such a thing, so that the Socialists and President Milosevic leave us out of it. If we want to be fair, we're all in his shadow. If you have something on us, then go ahead and say, "Mrs. Socialists, that's it, that's it." We'd be happy to answer that.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u25036	Replica. People's MP, Dejan Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u25037	If you could just die of an O.R.... [[Sagar.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u25038	If you can ask your MPs to listen to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u25039	The lower part of the hall looks more like a gallery, everyone's standing, not sitting, and that's probably the result of long-term work, and that's justifiable. In the absence of arguments, the remaining demagogy. Someone put a label on it, and that's enough. If anyone speaks of Milosevic's shadow, let them look only at their government and see how great that shadow is in their government. I think it's the best shadow. Let him look at his party ranks and everyone else and see how big that shadow is. What's worse than shadow, that's the way it works. [[Sagar.]] And in order to change the state and move towards reforms, they must be implemented by starting from themselves, by eliminating the privileges established by Milosevic's regime and inherited from another period. That's the first one. First you need to reform yourself so you can reform the state. Reforms are carried out in principle, who flies without a head and a reform will succeed, but the patient doesn't seem to survive. The reforms you're conducting are nothing but a dead letter on paper. Private account reforms and reforms of all other things, just not state reforms. The reforms you are conducting in Serbia have brought Serbia 147th of the countries for foreign investment. [[Sagar.]] Look at some English magazines, look, don't just pull out what suits you. Reforms in Serbia have led to 835,000 fake people on the voter's list: that the minority 90% of people live on the edge of social existence; that the government does not share the fate of the people, that the government has separated from that people. Reforms in Serbia have led to the ruling coalition in Serbia not having candidates in the presidential elections. The ruling coalition must not go to elections and it fears these choices. The ruling coalition has finally been defeated in Serbia and that it is based on the purchase of votes for the budget. This is about the figures, tens of thousands of euros offered to MPs to vote for the budget, to get 126 votes. The government will not get 126 votes for the budget, and that will talk enough about the rating that the government enjoys in the Assembly and the confidence that the government no longer has. This government is no longer who it was, separated from the people. Simply its power and its power is based on naked lies and media manipulations.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u25040	No replica, we're done replicating. The word has a People's MP, Radojko Petrovic, and the next declared word is MP Miroljub Veljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u25041	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen of the government, by budgeting...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u25042	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention, I know you're tired, it's 22:30, please let's listen to the MP. I ask the MPs to take their seats.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u25043	With the budget, it is essential that the state meets the necessary needs of public spending users without excessively burdening the economy and citizens. Also, through the government's budget, it provides a part of it to create a favourable market and investment environment for the country's development. Let's see if the government has this proposal that we're considering today provides it. Let's take a concrete turn. The planned budget of 261 billion represents an increase of 44 billion or over 20% this year. I don't know what the government is based on, if on the other hand, it plans to grow 5% gross domestic product in 2003 and expects an inflation of 9%. It is particularly worrying that planned public spending participates in the gross domestic product almost 50%. This is, in fact, the largest share of public consumption in domestic gross product compared to all European countries, which are in the transition process without talking about developed countries. What about the declared goal of reducing the participation of public consumption and strengthening the economy? How to justify a planned deficit of nearly 47 billion dinars. It's a 18% deficit or almost 1/5 of the planned budget. It is difficult to justify the government's proposal to cover part of the deficit from loans to banks in the country and abroad of 22 billion, from the assets of the 15 billion-dollar company. It would be fine if there were to be a borrowing of banks in the country and abroad for the purchase of repromiums, for the purchase of equipment or for some investments, which would be dimensioned by production and generate profits. Bank debt to cover the budget deficit has major consequences for the future period. Loans must be taken back, increased by interest, and since they are used to cover the budget deficit, that is, go for public spending can only be returned from taxes and similar public revenues, which in fact leads to a slowdown in economic flows and a reduction in economic activities. Since due to the known circumstances, primarily due to economic sanctions in recent years there have been little investment in new technology, in equipment, it would be normal for the borrowing to be carried out in the direction of purchasing new equipment. It would be normal for the same purpose to allocate the largest part of the company to be sold. How do we justify the government's proposal to sell out 15.4 billion dinars or 250 million dollars to cover the budget deficit? How are we going to compete with outdated equipment and technology on the world market? We can't do that with cheap labor. The labour force's participation in total costs has been reduced to 10 to 15%, and this is no longer a particular advantage in international trade. How are we going to hire hundreds of thousands of redundancies from production, and how are we going to start production? Do the government worry about the defeating results of the foreign trade? The coverage of exports, and today there's been a lot of talk, crosses only 1/3, actually 36%. Such a situation has been unrecorded in Serbia's history, except for these last two years. The external trade deficit is expected to exceed 3.5 billion dollars this year. How can we pay these debts later? No matter what we've heard today, we're getting a favourable loan with a grace period, etc., but I'm asking you for a grace period, for a period of rest, intercalary interest is due to the main debt and all of this has to be paid afterwards. It is particularly bad that the total imports of machinery and equipment participate with only 12% and that imports of goods are wide-ranging over our total exports. In this way, the excessive budget made sense that some of the funds were allocated to stimulate exports. Maybe the government thinks it's a good thing she supplied the citizens with bananas and doesn't have to worry about providing an incentive to export. In the section of budget allocation to users, I think it was necessary to provide more funding for the development of agrarians. I would like to remind you that financial support for farmers in the OSCE countries is about 31% of all production costs. In terms of the development of international tourism, it is necessary to increase the proposed amount for Serbia's tourism offer to abroad, because it is indeed a symbolic amount proposed. In the draft budget, the government apparently neglected the development of 37 underdeveloped municipalities. These municipalities, instead of approaching the republican average, are falling ever further behind. Instead of one billion, as foreseen for this year 2002, the Fund for the Development of the Republic is required to provide two more billion dinars and to encourage the development of municipalities from an underdeveloped area. It is very important, because 37 municipalities represent a really large area in Serbia, it is known that only economic development provides both economic and social and political stability, and this should be considered primarily when it comes to municipalities with a mixed national composition of the population and that it is in the interest of all citizens living in them. Let us not forget that even the most developed countries take care of their regional development. The Prime Minister just said that last year the amendment was submitted to this, and it is true that the Socialists submitted the amendment both last year and this year, but not only to increase the amount of the Development Fund, but to the purpose of these underdeveloped municipalities in Serbia, where according to law and criteria, there are indeed 37 of them. Due to limited time for discussion, it is impossible to make a series of comments, which should be the subject of consideration. It is not possible to do so even in the debate in particular, although the Prime Minister said that we would have a chance to discuss in detail the details of the debate and propose according to certain items. It is not possible, since the overall budget allocation of 261 billion dinars contained on the 24 sides of the bill is possible for the entire parliamentary group to make only one amendment and to explain and explain the amendment within three minutes. Gentlemen of the DOS, which you have imposed, evaluate how much this is in the spirit of true parliamentaryism. For the sake of information, I would like to remind you that when an American congress brings a budget, it discusses the item per item. We need to learn a lesson from that.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u25044	The word has a People's MP, Miroljub Veljkovic, and the next is MP Zoran R. Angelkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u25045	Mr. Djelic, I have a crazy feeling these Kostunicas aren't going to vote your budget. Don't despair. It will be enough for Jacques Shirak or Lynn Montgomery, the wife of the US ambassador, to turn Kostunica and be all right if they could get him to run for Serbian president. Last year's criticism by Mr Djindjic that the Ministers of the 2002 budget had failed to defend, you literally understood. Malten here, you killed us with your discussion, and five ministers are coming out for a discussion of the MP. You as a government need to go to this house, give the budget, hear and praise, and hear criticism, and then synthesize it, go out, and then hear the answers to the criticism, etc. This is how you took our time and we can wait here for breakfast. I'm not going to say anything directly about the budget itself, about the budget items on the revenue and expenditure side; I'm going to say something about public spending policy in this country. The government called it a bomb bomb -- a memorandum of economic and fiscal policy for the 2003 budget. Public spending policy in this country, I say, is unrealistic, wasteful, unadjusted to the economic strength of the economy and the population. It is a policy that will deepen, certainly, economic recession, economically completely drain the population and cause major social earthquakes. It's one, ladies and gentlemen, extremely dangerous policy. Where's the evidence for my claims? The government, which plans public spending at a level of over 8 billion euros or $8 billion, is the government that intends to abolish any economic activity in the country, butcher the population economically, and probably abolish itself with such a policy, because it is obvious that this cannot be sown from real sources. When I say public spending, again to make no mistake, I mean the republican budget, the budgets of the funds, the budgets of local self-government, or the municipalities, and I mean the budget of this nakarada formation, which you make at the federal level, which, ladies and gentlemen, is about like this: that's about 1,200 euros per capita; the hats, from the baby in the cradle to the man with one foot in his grave. So one average four-member family is due to pay 4,800 euros annually. Can the average Serbian family pay for it? It does not matter whether it will pay through sales taxes, whether it will pay through taxes and income contributions, income taxes, property, etc.; approximately, so many families in the country should separate. I don't think the average Serbian family will be able to pay. I'm sure Mr. Djelic and Mr. Djindjic know that he can't do it. Normally, the government plans to fill the huge budget gap or budget deficit with revenues from privatisation, donations and foreign debt. I'm just wondering if it's normal, if it's smart and responsible state policy. Isn't it wiser to start an investment cycle in the public sector with privatisation revenues and thus start a business machine in the country? Is it not wise to use the ino credits for a direct financial injection of this congested Serbian economy, not for example? These loans are spent on some phantom co-ordination body run by Nebojsa Covic and used by these funds, quite certainly, for some of its business activities in southern Serbia. Dear Members of Parliament, this budget should not be accepted. This memorandum on public spending should be rejected, thus forcing the government to adapt its appetites to the economic strength of the economy and the population. If we can't make her do it, and I can see we won't be able to, then this government needs to be shot down.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u25046	The word has been made by MP Zoran R. Angelkovic. The next to be reported is MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u25047	Ladies and gentlemen, since we are discussing the budget at 11pm, I hope that this night budget will not only be spent at night, but will be spent by day. It seems to be such an important question that we should separate the night for him, not the day. I thought it was so important to discuss one budget for the following year, for 2003, that it would be good, fair, correct to discuss this budget in the course of a regular, normal day, and not during some night emergency session, as if, unless this debate is over, there will be no budget tomorrow. I don't think so, but it's your decision and you have the right both night and day. Secondly, I have to say one comment from this previous debate that was. The DSS and DS seem to be so short of Milosevic, they've repented that they've passed the extradition order, which is normal. It would be good to schedule a cabinet session immediately during the night, so that the decision and regulation should be withdrawn. (President: You return to the topic, on this basis you have received the word. No, but on the subject of those who spoke here and talked about Milosevic, not the budget. (President: They used the right of replica and did not have to stick to the subject, and you got the word because you were registered on the list to participate in the principle debate on the draft law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2003. Madam President, I'm talking about the subject. That this is a topic, even if it wasn't a replica and it wasn't a discussion and there was no dealing with DS and DSS MPs Mr Milosevic, we proposed an amendment to provide funds for the defence of the people indicted before The Hague tribunal. Therefore, even on that basis, I have the right to talk about this subject, but the subject of how the heads of the parliamentary groups spoke of Milosevic is that they miss him here. That's why, since he's missing and logically missing, we need to secure his return. Since they were talking about shadows, they probably read a lot of Tim Marshall's book "The Shadow Games." (President: Since you do not stick to my warnings, on the basis of article 101, I give you a warning, Mr Angelkovic. I am reminded that I am responding to them, and they probably have the right to talk about Milosevic, since they are more lacking. When it comes to the budget, of course, from this case we've received here, it's clear, and here tonight it's said on several occasions that the budget is 261 billion. That, in fact, is a nine-time increase in these three years. This means that at least nine times the cost increase or better to say the burden on Serbian citizens to charge this budget. Of course, each budget is important as one not only balance, or better to say, the creation of the financial business of one economy and at all society, but to create conditions on how and how one state will function both in economic and in any other sense. Minister Djelic here said that this is the most precise bidet, that it goes to the third decimal, that it is transparent, that it speaks of incomes and expenditures in every respect for each item. However, I must say, to be honest, I've watched these exact decimals and I've watched this transparency and I have to commend this last piece, from 85 pages to so forth. He says, it is, in a way, transparent, and this is about the financial plans of the relevant funds, and the Republic Fund for Pension and Disability Insurance; and the disability insurance of workers and independent employment; and the Institute for Health Insurance and the Republic Labour Market Office. It's okay and it's good. I hope, if we are already talking about the transparency of this budget, that this is as transparent as it is from 85 pages, how the funds for these funds will be spent, then we should have contributed to each ministry, in the same way, the transparency of spending that budget. Otherwise, when you look at an item here of 100, 200 million or more, and now you're talking about how it's transparent and how money is going to be spent, it doesn't matter, it's not true, it's not possible. If you want to say it in a transparent manner and they are adopted, I hope that the ministry's budgets on a proposal from the Minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia continue to be adopted, then it would be good to have these proposals in hand, as these positions will be spent. Then we could discuss correctly whether these positions are good, whether they are useful, whether they are necessary and whether they will be implemented in the right sense by that word of the budget. What are we interested in? We are interested in whether these expenditures we have here can satisfy the basic functions of Serbian citizens. When we talk about several of these segments, can education be completed and provided by the social component that students can study free of charge, that students at the Faculty of Law do not have to strike because they cannot pay for the exam. Does the Minister of Education guarantee that this budget, when it comes to education, can ensure that excellent high school students can enroll in colleges regardless of their social status, or not guarantee? Is that the financial plan that provides or does not provide for it here? It's that social component that we socialists want to know and what it is that we're looking to know. Does the Ministry of Health, whether this program and this part, when it comes to the cost of the Ministry of Health, ensure that someone on the street doesn't die because there's no means, that the list of medicines doesn't constantly fall to the point that no one who doesn't have the money can heal. Does the budget for the Ministry of Health ensure that the sick can be treated, not only by the one who has the money and whether he in general ensures that adequate funding of salaries can be provided to those employees, particularly in health, education, police and judiciary, who are directly linked to the budget. This clearly cannot be seen in the right way. If we were to talk and talk with these items now, it's almost impossible to see, not because it's petty, but because you can't see anything from this. At least I understand the budget. When it comes to services, for example. Or when it comes to this figure that was here at the beginning, which is almost about 5 billion, so three billion and 200 is a deal of work and a billion and 260 travel expenses. For example. whether, when it comes to education, it means whether or not the burden of professional work of the team Kovac-Cerovic, who worked, and the assistants are ministers, so they did the job with the main job. Is the deal of work with them about what they were doing within the ministry, what is the cost of this ministry when it comes to the contract on the part? I must admit, I have some numbers here, whether they're true or not, but the numbers are very nasty and very heavy, if it's true. If it's true, I'm talking about the previous year, check out Cerović-Kovač, I'm not saying anything in my mind when it comes to these figures. Secondly, this was about NGOs. First, if the term was used legally, which is the Citizens' Association, there would be less debate and dilemma here. Socialists are not against funding an association of citizens who are useful to Serbian citizens. They are opposed to funding appropriate NGOs that apparently work, not only because they have funded themselves from Soros and some other international institutions and worked against this country, but also today they are working against this country, working to break this country. Of course they can't be part of funding in any way. Not whether it's much or not, but they can't be part of funding from the government of the Republic of Serbia. It is logical that one part of the association of citizens, which is needed and in the interest of Serbian citizens, should be financed. Then, I think, when it comes to funding, for example. Here, in one item, there's 10 billion for the ZTP and the Captain. Watch out, there's a Captain and a ZTP in the same item. Well, it turns out in the end that the Captain can get nine billion of these funds, and the ZTP billion. If we wanted to have a transparent budget and if we knew in advance what part of it was, then they knew the people on the railroad would get nine or eight, and those in the captain's office would get two. You know how, since we have a constant example here, it's like being between a bull and a mouse, well, like, they're going to get something to eat there together, and here it's about two completely different entities, as different as possible. So I think that the minister here is constantly going through the big words -- transparently, for the first time in his life, it's never happened, but this budget is essentially, from 85 pages to further transparetane, and up to 85 pages it's completely clouding the situation, clouding the revenues and expenditures of this budget. Of course, even when it comes to these revenues, I didn't get an answer today, even though I asked - did these incomes, which are treated here, bring interest at the hands of the NBJ, or did someone approve Dinkic not pay that interest? The previous governor paid for it. Is it a private share of someone in G-17, did the PDO pay so far and whether it comes in here, whether it was paying services on that income, and it's about two billion and 800 dinars, and who, if it wasn't paid, authorized Dinkic not to pay in the Republic of Serbia's budget, whether it's private policy, personal policy, or whether it's this assembly, or maybe the Government, had the right to grant someone not to pay taxes on services? This is all that I think is important to know, exactly what incomes are and what expenditures are, and that this budget, of course, of 261 billion, is one tax burden on Serbian citizens, which they can hardly bear, on the one hand, and on the other hand, not to ensure an increase in economic improvement for those who are on the budget. That's what I was talking about. Because if it's 9% inflation, and it's projected 10% salary increase in education and health care, that means economic improvement is 1%. If it's inflation, it's something else. But this way this is understood, I realized that 9% inflation, 10% increase. It turns out that 1% will be economically in a more favourable position at the end of 2003, rather than on January 1, 2003. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u25048	The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Vukic. The SRS parliamentary group has 10 minutes left. After him is MP Golub Rajic, and the SPS parliamentary group has three minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u25049	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't know why the government forced us to work until 11:00, why wasn't this done much earlier, when it was time? Do not interfere with what I say, nor do you have the right to do it, nor are you there to give answers, and when I ask you, go out and say it. [[Dropping out of the O.R.]] But it looks like you're comfortable getting functions against the law, so you've solved the role of Prime Minister to win. Unlike other parliamentary groups, which have spoken about how some money, or more money, needs to be transferred to different positions and different divisions, we of the SRS parliamentary group have not done so. We, I'd say, without any demagogy, asked for one restrictive budget, so we asked for a reduction in spending, savings, we asked it to decrease, or there's no budget deficit of 46 billion and 900 million dinars. We asked for it because we think it is the only chance and the only possibility for Serbia to move forward, but we saw a few things that had to be changed in this budget -- simply by analysis, there are things that no one has provided an answer or tried to do. Just look at the division of the President of the Republic, which speaks of some 90 million for machines and equipment. I don't know if it's for Kostunica, or if it's for anyone else, figure out that it's 360 cars, "Jugo" on an annual basis. I know that the president of Serbia will become Mr. Seselj, but I don't believe you intended this on him and that you know why it should be done. And then I would point to a few incredible illogicalities, and these are travel expenses foreseen for individual ministries. Look at the Ministry of Economic Relations, if I remember correctly, and I think I did, $28.5 million is intended for travel expenses only. Where are these people going? Three times a week to travel to Sydney and pay for the return ticket, he can't get out so much on the annual level. I took the city for which the most expensive plane ticket is. Where do these people go? If it's 350,000 for the Ministry of Faith, if it's 580,000 for the Ministry of Science and Technology, where does that man go, what does he do, does he travel to Mars? Where do these people go with $28.5 million? This could have been transferred to those seven billion and 530 thousand for agriculture, to increase these subsidies. We have this amendment to increase to nine billion, different savings could have been done, not that 30 wagons for one combination of wheat etc. are needed today. We asked for a more serious explanation for the story of service contracts - who provides such services? Like we used to have that under that -- the rest could be run, and so on -- service contracts and services. What services it provides to individual agencies, what services it provides to individual ministries - there are no explanations. Of course, we're not looking forward to any strikes, that's what you've been doing, that's how you've been doing, and then you've come to power with violence. We've never done that, but it's normal to have strikes when you have a false picture of reality, when you say it's getting much better, and the people are living harder, the people can't pay that kind of price of electricity, and we see that the government gives loans, of which they don't charge later interest, the EPS union, the PIU and other organizations, associations and agencies. Now, that's something that can't be allowed and can't be done. We had an interesting discussion here. It's probably Mr. Djindjic, so someone doesn't mind his neo-Anarholic or I don't know what kind of attitudes, but there's no need for that. There is no more wild liberalism in the world, no more serious country that represents such a thesis. I don't know what anyone else is looking for, but there's not one country that represents it, and don't deny the facts that the MPs here have brought. Let the minister come, where is this minister? Let him say what $28.5 million is for, where this man travels, where this man goes? You say the deficit will be compensated, among other things, by privatisation. There's no investment in development investments after that, from privatisation money. And how's this privatisation going? Where's the privatisation minister? He's not here either. It flows by, for example, being a sugarcane in Crvenkovski, which is why criminal charges against Dragan Veselinov, Petra Muncan and Miodrag Vukotic were filed, because they want to make four days' worth of sugar sugar for so much that they sell it, for so much, and of course there are no development investments afterwards, of course the state of Serbia can't have any money from it. Also, I could, of course, talk about donations, these loans and other debts, but I know you don't have time to listen or anything else. I thank you for your attention, and I hope that one different, one better government, after the soon held parliamentary elections, will in a different way prepare the budget law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u25050	The word has the People's MP Golub Rajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u25051	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. President, Mr. Ministers, on the agenda of the National Assembly is the draft budget law of the Republic of Serbia for 2003, which by January 15th needs the Assembly to adopt and according to the Budgetary System Act. As last year, there was a lack of public debate on the budget by experts. The government again arrogantly implements imposed economic policy, not consulting domestic experts, nor unions, regardless of hundreds of thousands of workers in transition will lose their jobs and the sale of property produced by generations. It explains that the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2003 is drawn up in line with economic policy, which should lay the foundation for rapid and sustainable economic growth. Total budget revenues are 214.6 billion, expenditures are 261.5 billion and this government, and this one as last year, envisions a budget deficit of 46.9 billion. The planned budget expenditures of 261.5 billion dinars are quite high fiscal burdens for a non-working economy, as well as a very poor population, and especially a budget deficit of 46.9 billion to be financed from privatisation, donations, international financial institutions and domestic borrowings. It would be better if the privatisation revenues were real revenue from the budget for the execution of expenditure, not to be used to finance the budget deficit coverage, which should definitely be covered by donations, which are at least not available in these two years, and if there are, there are no exact figures for what they are used for. War damages are not mentioned, and we will cover the budget deficit with the task of international financial institutions, so our generations will pay it back, which is unacceptable for the Socialists. Isn't it better that our economy works, which is unfortunately not the case, at least in eastern Serbia, when it comes to Bor, Majdanpek or Prah and that these systems are full of budget, without relying on donations, loans and company sales to partially fill the budget? We'll pay foreign interest about 8.5 billion. It is wrong for the budget to increase by paying taxes. It should come from savings and savings in the country, by increasing the number of employees and by growing their salaries, and by reducing the cost. This year's growth rate will be barely 2.8% to 3%, and if reformers do not make false promises, afraid of losing power. Their goal is to extend their reign, even for a while. The budget is neurally high, as is the course of the dinar overrated.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u25052	I'm warning you, time's over.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u25053	It would be good to increase the funds of the transfer, by compulsory social insurance organisations and to reduce the debt of the state to agricultural producers. Is it still very low agricultural pensions, and that at the end of the coming years they start to pay regularly, because those who retire per year and over are waiting for their first pension?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u25054	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic, and the next one registered for the word is MP Bozidar Vucurovic, you have four minutes in total.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u25055	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I agree with the Prime Minister's conclusion that the budget needs to be focused on pensions and salaries for budget beneficiaries. However, when this budget is a little bit more analysed, it is concluded, or at least it comes to the conclusion that we are a very rich country and that we are extremely wasteful in our budget. I'm just going to do part of the items that I think are too high in this budget, so let's say, let's say, we have an Agency to improve the state administration of 5,370,000 dinars. Mr. Prime Minister, you have shown so well that you know that you are leading this country with a firm, dictatorial hand, that no agency is needed for that; or a security-information agency, worth a billion 593 million 727 thousand. I don't know why this amount is needed, whether it might be for Chad's security, whether or not to be followed and listened to by opposition leaders and MPs, whether or not the army should be spied. If the military is spying, the question is for whom and why. One of yours, now former Deputy Prime Minister, who was just in charge of national security, has been arrested for spying and co-operation with the CIA. Could this agency be some kind of Serbian CIA? You now have the Energy Stability Agency, 5 million 842,000, completely unnecessary; the Agency for Foreign Investments and Export Promotion, and in the amount of 2 million 349 thousand; the Culture Development Agency, 1,074,000, so I guess we have the Minister of Culture, what then the Agency, or the Minister or the Agency, can't do both; recycling agency, 15,600,000; and for all these agencies there are pandas in the institutions and the Republic Directorates. There is another very interesting item in the Republic of Serbia's budget, which is that the Ministry of Agriculture allocates 50,000 to the long-term development and harmonisation programme of legislation for the European Union. The same amount Mr. Dragan Vesenov received for 2002, 50,000 dinars spent, and I don't know if this assembly discussed one single legislative proposal. What he was harmonizing with the European Union, does he know that the European Union has ruined one of France's most developed agricultural countries, which has a much stronger agricultural budget than Serbia. Why are we giving him the new 50,000 dinars? What he promotes, hunting in Serbia, to catch birds singers. Mr. Vesenov, just smile, but there will come a time when you will account for these 50,000 dinars. We also have an agency, in fact, the Institute of Information and the Internet, where the government of the Republic of Serbia will spend 342 million 695,000 dinars. In just four minutes, it's out here how it can be saved, no less than three billion dinars. Anyway, I'll see you tomorrow in detail.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u25056	With this, we have concluded a principle debate according to the application for the word of the MPs, that is, since there are no more registered MPs on the list, I ask if any of the presidents of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Ljubomir Mucic, authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u25057	Mr. Prime Minister, you're in no hurry. Tomorrow is Friday the 13th day. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, don't blame me for this, you've decided, we've all decided on this, and don't make it now, there's no reason, I've been taught by my parents, my teachers, to read a nice book before I was a cop. You'd better remember before you go to sleep than at the beginning of your day. Yeah, well, let's put it under our heads and learn nicely. So I hope you understand something better tonight. We have long expected our esteemed Minister Djelic to start implementing the Law on the Budgetary System and, in one right way, to propose a new budget, with a memorandum that reminds us of the five-year old plans and resolutions on the implementation of these plans, and also these nominal and realistic rates, we have long not. And I, like some of you, made these plans and resolutions at the time, so there's no need for us to laugh together at that time and come back that time. On the other hand, I can really say that the impression that the 2003 budget is much more realistic and concrete than the macroeconomic indicators and policy proposed in the area of the economy and also fiscal policy. I think this memo illustrates a certain state, and I also think that these global frameworks that have been established here are not clearly specified through concrete measures and instruments to implement this macroeconomic policy. I think we will all agree, and Minister Djelic himself noted that this memorandum was agreed and signed with the IMF in mid-March 2002. Sir, buy "florida", don't drive "passat", you're from Kragujevac, you need to show local patriotism like me around the earthquake, and you're driving in "passat", metals, so you have to be a little bit of a local patriot, to represent the area where you came from. [[You can't hear any comments from the gym.]] So, a memorandum with the IMF was signed in March 2002, agreed to an amount of $825m, May 13th of the same year. There are clear and macroeconomic frameworks for the next three years, but I remind you again -- there are no clearly defined instruments for its implementation. It is unclear just how the development strategy is defined for this period, and that public finances should, or should always be, an incentive for faster economic development and the creation of conditions for financing large infrastructure projects. On the contrary, 25.7% of total expenditures are costs for transfers to social insurance organisations, this is our programme and we need to support this programme, 67.2 billion, probably these 48 billion per budget proposal is the amount that has been achieved and implemented both in 2002 and for some future rebalancing, surely to cover the surplus funds, or otherwise there will be a reduction in the number of pensioners or a real lack of pensions. Next... [[Sagar.]] You've calmed down nicely, to learn something, but here's Mr. Prime Minister as your party chief, long ago you've been out of number like this, and so nervous. You're a good listener today. (Glass: Come on, Pussy.) ) Some 62.6 billion or 24% in the structure of the budget are salaries of public sector employees and I don't think it's a good policy to increase the average personal income, given that, based on the number of employees in the economy, it can't be rationalised in social upgrades and spending, there is an improvement in real personal income in social activities and also in pensions. On the other hand, subsidies and investments in the economy amount to about 48 billion, of which investment in capital facilities is about 10 billion, through road infrastructure and part through the Development Fund. The macroeconomic framework has been determined primarily by the inflow of funds from abroad, through investments, donations and loans. You seem to be a lot like the managers of international financial institutions at the moment. Foreign direct investment is planned for about two billion dollars in four years, and this budget alone weighs about four billion. (Glass: Come on, Mutzic.) Take it easy, take your time. This is concrete data, it can learn nicely.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u25058	I ask for a little patience, to listen to the MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u25059	If the correct information is that imports do not make up 50% of the social product, it is clear that the budget is full of consumption rather than production, since over 60% of imports make goods of broad consumption. How long will it take when our citizens' reserves are at an end? Not to mention the stable exchange rate of the dinar, its positive functioning on exporters and exports, the increase in foreign exchange reserves. Special attention is the planned budget deficit of 46.9 billion dinars or 750 million US dollars, which accounts for 18% of the budget and is shown to justify spending and the theoretical world shows that the budget deficit is less than 5%, as recognised by the European Union criteria. None of these criteria are certain. How consistent you are in your policy and assessing stability, I'm just going to warn you of some illogicalities. Although inflation in 2001 was 40%, 2002. 15% and the next 9%, which is calculated somewhere around 75%, the budget rises to 214.6 billion or somewhere double. However, the sales tax has been increased three times. Index 303,05%. Let it be true that the increased revenues based on the growth of traffic, the suppression of smuggling... Just laugh. [[Laughter]] Just laugh. Last time he laughs, he laughs the cutest. That's right, Mr. Prime Minister. Thank you. Are the estimates correct, please... [[(Sagar. Give it up.]] (Glasses: Puss, Puss, Puss, Puss, Puss, Puss, Puss, Puss, Puss, Puss, Puss, Thank you, thank you, thank you. This looks like something before tomorrow. I've always had applause and they've always been justified. Thank you. The amount of taxes on financial transactions is unreally low-planned with 3.8 billion dinars, and this year more than 10.5 billion were achieved and it is only certain that the rate of this tax in the coming year is reduced by one-third, and for 2004 the Memorandum provides for the elimination of contributions. Mr. Prime Minister, I think you owe the answer in which way what was started for damaged buildings from the Kolubara County earthquakes will end. In the end... Thank you. [[Applause]] You're very kind. And in the end... In the end, one question for the prime minister. In the previous year you promised for most of the municipalities to build one kilometer of asphalt roads. There is a question from the Municipality of Osijek -- which is why the contract and the scope of the work has not been carried out so far. Thank you. Continuing is tomorrow.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-12-0.u25060	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding the principle of shock. Since today's meeting lasted 13 hours, with a debate on the draft budget bill for 2003, we will continue tomorrow at 11.30 p.m. Bon appétit. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fifth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002. I would like to inform you that according to official records, today's session, according to reports, there are 186 MPs present. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that we have a quorum for work, as well as a quorum for decision-making. 167 MPs are present. I would like to inform you that they have announced the absence of the following MPs: Natasa Milojevic, Slobodan Pavlovic, VlatkoSekulović, Miodrag Jaćimović and Branko Pavlovic. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. We move to the 4th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2003. I remind you that the National Assembly, at yesterday's meeting, has completed a principled search of the bill. On the basis of Article 136(3), Rules of Procedure, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Reporting by the Business Group, president of the DOS parliamentary group - Democratic Alternative, Mrs Nada Kolundzija.
