ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18528	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, last night, the DOS majority tried to force us to work as vampires, and here we are today at 11.00 a.m. we barely got together. So waiting to explain my amendment, I almost lost my patience. The draft law with an enormously increased amount of money in court fees is not acceptable, there is a huge discrepancy of increased court fees with the standard of citizens, so SRS MPs want their amendments to make court fees appropriate to the general economic situation. The purpose of this law should not be merely the reason for the budget. We want to arrange amendments for the judiciary to work independently, for judges to be paid for their work, but not to deny citizens the right to protection in courts. Article 10 of this proposal lays down the amount of the court's inheritance fee in the first-degree procedure shall be paid a tax according to the pure value of the legacy. The debate of the legacy is the transfer of ownership rights from the legal predecessor to the legal successor. It's about gaining property rights, the desert procedure. This property is acquired by an heir with no burden, no legal work, and it's not about the sale. That's why you don't have to dig into someone who inherited it, because the legacy is already drained enough by earlier duties. People die every day and more die under DOS rule. That's why the legacy will be more and more. That is why SRS MPs are pushing for these fees to be reasonable, as it will happen that the legal follower has no money to pay taxes. Here's a classic example -- though, Minister Batic spoke about geese yesterday, and I don't know if Mr. Minister has any predecessors in the country, so that as an inheritance, he might have a goose or maybe a duck or something, then, according to article 10 of his proposal, he would have to pay a tax of 300 dinars, and we suggest, by this amendment, that the value of up to 5,000 be 100 dinars, and the minister only pays 100 dinars for a duck. I suggest that court fees are reduced for discussing the legacy in the first instance, according to the same value of the legacy, and less than proposed for those reasons. (President: Time. ) I also suggest that the minister accepts the DOS majority of this amendment, as he probably met as a lawyer in practice with a reasoned example. Our proposals are to reduce the values offered by this law: up to 5,000 dinars of value - 100 dinars, instead of the proposed 300 dinars; over 5,000 to 20,000 dinars of value - 150 dinars, instead of the proposed 300 dinars; over 20,000 to 50,000 dinars of value - 200 dinars, instead of the proposed 700 dinars; and, over 200,000 dinars of value - 1,200 dinars instead of the proposed 3,450 dinars, of course, increased with this... (President: Mr. Keseiæ, I warn you of time overruns, twice.) )......................................................................................................... of the value of the legacy. I'm just finishing up, and I didn't hear you warning me earlier, because I'd be very jealous to get off the phone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18529	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 32, against 105, the two abstentions, were not voted 20 out of 159 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Zivko Selakovic submitted to the 10th amendment. The Government, the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is from MP Zivko Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18530	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, the amendment of the Assembly Group of the Soviets, which I submitted to the draft law on court fees, which concerns Article 10, regulates the debate of the legacy, or the legacy in the first-degree procedure. We know that, most often, farmers, workers, ordinary citizens are tried around their heritage. This article, in addition to a significant increase in the amount of court fees in the flat-rate amount, provides for a further burden on the additional value of the fee in the percentage amount, depending on the value of the dispute. Here is the text of the proposed amendment by the SSJ Group: in Article 10(2). - after the word "300 dinars" put a dot, and the words "increase by 2% of the legacy value" erase. This also applies to paragraph 3. -after the word "700 dinars" again put a dot, and the words "increase by 1.5% of the legacy value" also erase. In point 4. - after the word "1.450 dinars" put a dot, and also say "increase by 1% of the value of the slow" to delete. Finally in the fifth position -- after the word "3.450 dinars" put a point, and the words "increased by 0.5% of the value of the legacy, and the maximum of 10,000 dinars" deleted. Why I suggested this, here's an explanation. An inheritance is not considered a win, as one says, without work. It was obtained by the work of ancestors, grandfathers, fathers, and others, who in most cases had acquired the property mentioned in the past. In particular, I believe that the predecessors through various obligations, taxes and other taxes have repeatedly paid various fees on property that is property. Since the Assembly Group of the Soviet Union accepts the proposed fees in this member in a flat-rate amount, we therefore suggest that you accept this amendment by deleting the proposed percentages on the value of the legacy dispute I have counted. Once again, let me underline: Let's bear in mind that around the heritage the most, the slow peasants, the workers, the ordinary citizens, about the little property they have left! Shouldn't be an extra load, put them in an even more difficult position. I therefore believe that this amendment should be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18531	I thank the People's MP. Is anyone else applying for this amendment? Please, MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, authorised representative of the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18532	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, perhaps the amendment of MP Zivko Selakovic from the Assembly Club of the Soviets and good, especially when it comes to the fact that such high taxes will not hit the heirs who inherit small property, with little value, but consider, Mr. Minister, one day, don't give God, but it will happen to all of us, when you die, so your heirs should inherit the property of 20 million marks, how much this fee will be. The reason I came out was to say, first of all, that the SRS MPs will not vote in favour of the SJ amendment, neither this, nor any other, because the SS has come to the DOS and Djindjic, making a coalition at the local level in Jagodina, and thus virtually manifested that it is ready to join the coalition with the black devil, just to achieve its cohesive interests, i.e. to reach some small government.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18533	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Please, MP Dragan Markovic, president of the Soviet Parliament group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18534	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS and its biography are very well known to Serbia and the general public. I don't want to and don't want to talk about the SRS, because the SS is very different from the SRS and we don't want everything to be black in this Serbia. (Natasa Jovanovic keeps throwing out of place. ) Furthermore, the Soviet Union will always separate global policy from local politics. The SS in Jagodina... I'd like to ask this lady or Miss... (President: Please don't throw away. )......................................................................................................... I don't know what you are, that you don't throw away and be cultural. (Natasa Jovanovic continues to throw out of place. (President: Please don't throw away. ) SRS, I didn't get confused, ma'am, you should be confused and ashamed because the only interest of politicians in the SRS is that you fight, fight how you're going to deceive the people, and the best indicator is how many votes you get as a committee candidate in Kragujevac, where you live. When you come to Belgrade or go to Novi Sad, you can talk about a politician if those people don't know that politician. I can come to Kragujevac and talk about you, but I don't want to, that's what your citizens said -- and as far as I'm concerned, as far as I'm concerned, in Jagodina, I'm informing you that the SSJ is the most popular party. We don't want to cause paralysis in the Jagodina municipality and now that the DSS and DS have had a fight in our city, forced administration. We want them to banish this mandate until the end, so that the citizens of Serbia see whether they are worth it or not, and in the next snap elections, we will go out and, in any case, the Soviet Union will have power in Jagodina. So, we don't want you to get some principtive administrations into place as soon as possible, so that something bad happens to this Serbia as soon as possible, so that you might show up again to talk to the citizens; say there are some red witches, and you had a coalition with that same witch, and you have great responsibility for everything that's happened in Serbia in the last two and a half years. The SS and its officials have done something in their lives and have their own interests, unlike you and the lady sitting next to you. Her husband is employed because the SRS had power in Serbia, and she complains that her husband lost his job. Her husband lost his job because the policy led by the SRS, for her no one wants to hear from this Serbia anymore. That's the point, ma'am. It's very ugly when a woman comes out for a pay phone and says ugly words, and that's what you two could hear more than once after this pay phone. That's very ugly. I don't want to offend you and I don't want to talk about your biography. Your biography was told by citizens in the city where you had power, in Zemun. Well, if you're so good, how come you didn't get any councilmen, ma'am? That's not clear to me, does the people hate you? Maybe Slobodan Milosevic stole your votes, and maybe Djindjic stole your votes! Who stole your votes in Zemun? The Serbian Unity Party, wherever it went to the polls, is one percentage of the vote, even in your Zemun we got more votes from you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18535	Mr. Markovic, I'm warning you of a time-out.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18536	In Kragujevac, the SSJ received more lady than you, although you did not get off the small screens of local TV in Kragujevac and with RTS, you yourself, so this is the right indicator, and this is the last time the SSJ comes out (here for this pay phone) to allegedly defend itself from attacking a failed SRS policy. [[Natasa Jovanovic, from the site wants a replica.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18537	You have no right to a replica. She challenged the Republic (Employee Natasa Jovanovic) by violating Rule 103; you kept throwing, I warned you twice, and you can't get a line at all, be happy that I don't take your word away because you have two warnings. (Natasa Jovanovic continues to throw out of place. ) Is anyone else answering for this amendment? You have the right to a replica, and Mrs Natasa Jovanovic does not. Here you go. You can't throw, you're mentioned because you threw despite my warning. (Natasa Jovanovic continues to throw out of place. ) As president of the parliamentary group, you have the right to reply, Mrs Gordana Pop-Lazic, and you do not have the right to reply. Do you want to use it or not? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18538	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, you seem to have already become President of the Republic. But wait, Milan Milutinovic has not been extradited to The Hague yet. And when you move to that building across the street, and then when you come to Parliament, you'll be a guest, but while you're still in this position, please make sure you respect this Rules of Procedure. The Republic, here to teach you a little bit, I challenged it, after Mr. Markovic from the Soviet Union addressed Natashi Jovanovic directly and insulted her and the party. She asked for a replica, and you should have given her the opportunity to replicate it. I, of course, can take over the line myself, but I don't want to deny my colleague that right, and I'm not going to defend her, but she can go out for this pay phone herself, because that right belongs to her under the Rules of Procedure. That's why I'm advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure and I'm asking for Mrs. Jovanovic to give her word to replicate Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18539	Are you done?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18540	I expect you to give me an answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18541	I'll answer you, and you go back to your seat.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18542	If you answer me...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18543	I can't answer that. You're turning your back.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18544	... And it doesn't work for me, so I'll take over for myself. You have no intention of answering...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18545	I have, I'm waiting for you to get off the phone, because that's the order, you understand, and so far we've always done that.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18546	I won't argue with you, answer me!
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18547	You have another minute and a half, I'll wait, then I'll give you an answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18548	Mrs. Micic, I went out to get the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18549	I'll give you an answer when you step away from the pay phone. I won't give you an answer, and you'll stand there and turn your back.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18550	Obviously, we're in no hurry.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18551	Time, please step away from the pay phone. Mrs. Pop-Lazic, please step away from the pay phone, since the time is too high.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18552	I'm waiting for you to answer me, and if you don't let Natasha Jovanovic speak I'll take the line on myself, why would you walk me?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18553	You cannot determine; there are rules, predetermined, rules contained in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18554	If you respected them, I wouldn't have had to go out for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18555	Please step aside and let me give you an answer for the third time. It says (Article 97). Rules of Procedure) that it is three minutes (to explain the injury) and that the President then gives the answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18556	I was done before that time and you could have given me an answer by now.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18557	Mrs. Pop-Lazic, I'm giving you my first warning because you won't get off the phone. I don't think there's any damage to the Rules of Procedure. I did not allow the requested replica - National MP Natasa Jovanovic did not allow a replica, for the simple reason that the MP Natasa Jovanovic violated Rule 103, which says the warning is being expressed to the MP who interrupts the speaker in the presentation or throws it away, or is otherwise jeopardising the freedom of speech. Therefore, you (Employee Natasa Jovanovic) have caused the replica to be kept up. I've asked you twice, I haven't even given you a warning and I can't give you a replica. (Tomislav Nikolic: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) She already had her word on behalf of the Parliament group, Mrs Pop-Lazic. Now the entire parliamentary group will have a word in the Rules of Procedure. She was now an authorised representative. You were in the O.R. (Tomislav Nikolic: I wasn't in the O.R. I have a new breach of the Rules of Procedure. ) Does anyone else report for an amendment to article 10 submitted by MP Zivko Selakovic? The words came from Justice and Local Self-Government Minister Mr. Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18558	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, respected observers, the government cannot accept the amendment of the honourable MP Zivko Selakovic for the simple reason that the amendments propose fixed court fees, i.e. fixed fees. We think the proposal is fairer, since taxes are increasing the relative value of the legacy and that is one rational reason why we cannot accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18559	It's the Rules of Procedure again.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18560	Your explanation is a violation of the Rules of Procedure and you forget that I was disfellowshipped from the session when the MPs were throwing me out of the O.R., and that's the Women's Network, and I called them off this phone booth. Then you didn't say that they caused my reaction and that that's why they should suffer the consequences, but you said that I should bear the consequences because I used a people's expression to explain what they did to me continuously while I was at the pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18561	Is that a replica or is it a Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18562	It's according to the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Micic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18563	What member?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18564	The same member you used to tell Mrs. Jovanovic that she doesn't have the right to a replica, the same member, and I think you said number 103, 104 or whatever you said, it doesn't matter, but that same member that you're interpreting as you want when you want to. Or you will warn those who earn or release those who speak and whom others earn to tell them whatever they want. Either you punish those who earn, or you punish those who respond to the throw, but it has to be a unique principle. By the time I came out for this pay phone, you have violated the dignity of the National Assembly. You allowed a criminal to attack a beautiful young person.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18565	Mr. Nikolic, I warn you that you have two warnings and that you will receive a third measure, which is taking away words.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18566	Unfortunately, I had to come here sick to respond to the behavior of the new coalition in the National Assembly. You've allowed everything here to be said. A gentleman who makes a party out of JUL and SPS waste...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18567	You didn't get the right line, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18568	I'm telling you how you have violated the dignity of the National Assembly and I must explain it. The one who makes the president of his party in Kragujevac out of a Julyer, the former dean of the Faculty of Medicine in Kragujevac, the one who put people in the basement to vote as he wills, the one who bids coal for the Yugoslav Army, as if the Yugoslav Army couldn't get the...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18569	Mr. Nikolic, I'm sorry, but based on article 104, I take your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18570	... The one through whom all the coal from the Colubara goes, the one who faked the games, who arrested the judges and the players...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18571	Mr. Nikolic, please step away from the pay phone, I have taken your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18572	You're defending criminals, not defending a lady, just because it allows you to exercise power in Jagodina. What's wrong with you at the Serbian Radical Party? You boasted to me that your whole family voted for me as a candidate.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18573	Mr. Nikolic, please step away from the pay phone, to respond to the breach of the Rules of Procedure. The proof that I have treated all the MPs equally is that I did not take away the word from Natasa Jovanovic on the basis of Article 103, and I could, for the simple reason that I did not do so to any MP, and I could not take away your word. Right to the replica, MP Dragan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18574	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this gentleman who said I was a criminal because I am a private man for 20 years and because I paid the biggest tax in 1993, 1994, 1995, 1996 and 1997, unlike him who is a host in the election campaign, for the president, this gentleman, this host, here is the election commission's report, in his city, as a candidate for the Serbian Radical Party, whose representative, as vice-president of the Serbian government, has done well to Serbia, and then he went to be vice president of the federal government, and he did well, and the federal government -- he got (all) 5.52% of the votes. And, as a criminal, in his words, in that same city, I got 9.99%. Now, that's an indicator. In Kragujevac, everyone knows both Mr Nikolic and me, since these are two cities that are not many miles away from each other. Furthermore, this same gentleman when he had a car accident, my TV went to his apartment to do an interview, (he was in pajamas) so he could tell the public what his party was offering in the election campaign! Often radicals say Tomislav Nikolic as I sell coal to the military. Unlike you gentlemen, we're doing something. I get a bid job as the highest bidder, I pay taxes on it, I'm not the only supplier, there's more suppliers, 20 suppliers, and what's wrong with that! Well, I guess it's bad if someone got the post of Serbian Deputy Prime Minister and acted as host to have a house, and they would live in Kragujevac and get a room of 200 square meters, gentlemen. Robbing this country. And this same one now presents itself as a well-intentioned and human man, and he takes care and cares for this Serbia. It was one of the negotiators in Kosovo and Metohija, and he now says -- it's the Socialist Party; so he was on the team, gentlemen and he, and he's guilty of everything that happened, if we can say he's guilty. The Serbian Unity Party no longer wants to mention it, here is now another, because it has spoken ugly words, but -- in its village where I live, the village of Končarevo, which has nearly 3,000 inhabitants, I received 95% of the vote in 1996 and in the 2000 elections. I have nearly 2,000 voters, and how many votes did he get in his alley? What kind of capital did he have before he entered the Serbian Radical Party, and what capital does he have today? This is no longer the case with Serbian citizens. (President:Time. ) I thank you, and we will no longer mention the Serbian Radical Party, because give me one public figure in Serbia without the Serbian Radical Party mentioning that public figure. They started attacking us when we voted for the Extraprofit Act, the one who stole it has to go back and take away his property. That's why they hate us.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18575	I'm warning you, time's over. On what basis are you looking for a word? (He speaks to an MP who asks for a word. You can't, you've been taken from the word. Taken away word, you have no right to the Rules of Procedure. The word is made by MP Branislav Ivkovic, a replica. You have asked for the Rules of Procedure (received to the MP Vukic). ) and in the meantime I gave the word to MP Ivkovic. We're not at the market to make a deal. I asked you nicely, and you asked for the Rules of Procedure, not to change your mind. Let MP Branislav Ivkovic pass to the pay phone. (Employer Vukic insists.) I gave my word to MP Branislav Ivkovic. I gave my word to MP Branislav Ivkovic. I can't give you a replica because he challenged the deputy president of the parliamentary group. Please, MP Branislav Ivkovic. I won't give it to you. [[Zagor, MP Vukic continues to insist.]] I won't give you a replica. Here's a word from MP Branislav Ivkovic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18576	Ladies and gentlemen, there are certainly many political parties on the political scene of Serbia, more than this Serbia needs, but regardless of the number of parties, we should all leave it to the citizens at a given time, when they are alone, voting, to define and assess, in themselves, the value of these parties. What happened in 2000 is not a single solution, and surely that solution can happen this year, maybe even before we all think it can change. I would only ask representatives of the Serbian Unity Party and the Serbian Radical Party not to involve the Socialist Party of Serbia in their inter-party account. As for the participation of the Socialist Party of Serbia in Kosovo and Metohija, all Serbian citizens could see yesterday when Mr. Bacali found himself in "unguarded grapes" and thus spent it so that Carla del Ponte would have to lasso catch the next witnesses for The Hague tribunal.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18577	The right to reply, to present MP Branislav Ivkovic, has a National MP, Aleksandar Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18578	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you are [[President]] It was seen with what enthusiasm DOS lawmakers welcomed their coalition partner, they say -- a new coalition partner and was formerly a coalition partner of the Socialist Party of Serbia and JUL, I will bring evidence within the hour, and today they are with the DOS. No difference at all. But it doesn't matter that much either. Here a criminal came out for a pay phone and spoke about the Serbian Radical Party, talking about the number of votes. What are you nervous about? [[Sagar.]] Every time someone tells you about your coalition partners, you react terribly. Let Mrs. Micic go, she's already nervous when one of the Serbian radicals needs to come out! Some people here mentioned other people's apartments. They were talking about what kind of room... Excuse me, do you want to calm Mr. Shutanovec or not? [[Sagar.]] So, they mentioned someone's apartments of 200 square meters, so they yell here, they pour righteous anger. You're lying about it, too. You have two thousand and two hundred squares taken from this people, two thousand and 200 squares from the sale of coal, from the reselling of coal, the kidnapping of the Yugoslav Army, and then you take it, and apparently you sell it to the military -- it can't sell the mine, so you're going to sell! You have money to buy the entire National Assembly without counting three DOS. You're talking to someone. Show the people what you're driving. It's a shame we're driving to the South, or I don't know what. Tell me what you're driving. How'd you get that? Remember the big one? Education big? What's that for? With what? Professors are for what, hitting your head with a leg. For what else? What are you doing? What are you showing in Serbia? You are bothered by the Serbian Radical Party, making videos about Tomislav Nikolic, whether he threw the microphone or not! You should be ashamed of what you're doing. Don't make videos about how people don't have the bread to eat, don't make videos about how hard people live under Djindjic's regime. That's why you and Djindjic are going to the coalition. That's why you get a million and a half for kick boxing. That's why it can happen today in Serbia, and you will -- we will not talk about them, but that's why we're going to do radical videos, so they're radicals, so Natasa Jovanovic blames you for what you say -- education of corpses instead of exhumation of corpses! Is that what you're blaming Natasa Jovanovic for? Is that what Serbian radicals are for? It's not all very important... (President: Time. We won't let anyone else... neither in any way nor in any way, nor in any way, that we should turn away, but in every way he deserves it. You are on the team of Zoran Djindjic, along with Zoran Djindjic and his cups will be brought before the court of history. Whether we get three votes or three million votes -- it's much more important to keep face. That's what's most important, even if they get three votes. And you'll see... (President: I warn you of an excessive amount of time. Time's good and I'll be done soon. So, you'll see in the next election who will get how many votes, regardless of all the media that support you and your coalition partners, regardless of how many Serbian radicals cannot host on any central television. You will see how the people will react to all this and you will no longer exist anywhere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18579	Right on line, MP Dragan Markovic. Replication to the presentation of MP Branislav Ivkovic. [[Sagar.]] He challenged MP Dragan Markovic, so you will understand.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18580	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, maybe I once made a lapus, because it's not just about politics, like Mr. Vukic, that I'm just preparing speeches that are passed on to the people. Yes, he graduated from college and was educated in college because he also received the post of Minister of Information, and he also received a room of 200 square meters. No more Mr. Wolfie. So you and one of the three-member families took two acres of wages, so that you are not ashamed of the Serb people of Cosmeta. And you're talking about honesty now, Mr. Wolfie. Next, you were a guest on Palm Plus TV more than 50 times, 90% more than the SS. When you came, Mr. Wolfie, you were thrilled to see how it was done, that it was the best house, so you brought your father, brother and wife, to see how it was done in Palma Plus. You were thrilled. One night, Mr. Wolf, let me tell you that you're illiterate, you have no idea anything, nothing about life, it's stupid to say it, but one night he's brought such an ugly word to this gentleman behind me. There was a dinner, and there came a spring, which was prepared in that roll, and he said, "Yo, look how nice the cake is." They're celebrating me if I'm lying. He didn't know what it looked like, this one here, him and his party, and his boss, they destroyed this Serbia. They're ruined. But I say again, if Vojislav Seselj is to be delivered to The Hague tribunal, the Soviet Union will defend him to its members, ladies and gentlemen. So, when it comes to the national issue. Next, we're not in a coalition with DS. The Serbian Unity Party is eager to leave this power and seek new elections. The fact that we used to vote for some law, so gentlemen, it's not all black in this country, and we can't be the opposition that's going to say - nothing's wrong in this country, but when the national issue is passed, then we'll always have a solid national option. They resent us for voting for the Law on Local Self-Government, so we voted for that law, because we have candidates for president, at least 50 cities of ladies and gentlemen, for the presidents of municipalities, and they have none. And they say, why did you vote for that law? Well, we voted because we know that this law suits us and that citizens in the next election will vote for us. They were answered by the Executive Board in the congregation of the municipality. Why the Executive Board - because there are 15-25 members on the Executive Board, and then a decision is made by the Executive Board to make Vojislav Seselj pay and build a house of 1,000 and some squares, in the name of his mother. Well, that came out in the election, how much crying did the SRS take. My citizens know best about me, and they know the same about them. Thank you. [[The People's MP Alexander Vukic seeks the right to reply.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18581	You challenged the replica, as representative of the SRS, you have no basis as a representative, you have personal, please. You have a personal right to the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18582	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we have listened to great liars here. You poor thing, I don't have 200 squares, not lies.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18583	Mr. Vukiæu, I have already warned you to take care of how you address the MPs, who are the people's representatives, and because your word has been taken from you...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18584	I'll take care of it. You said I had 200 squares, that you weren't ashamed. I got a three-bedroom apartment from the state, not a seven-person apartment. I don't have 3,000 rooms like you. Mr. Seselj made a fair profit, selling coal, not 1,000 squares, but his house 12 years ago, 15 maybe. How you're not ashamed, how pathetic what you're saying. I've brought, of course, I've brought, we've attended something else with you, but how pathetic you are. I'll tell you one thing -- it's for the mine and the cake, how you've been lying about it. My wife's making a breakthrough, my mother's been making it her whole life, and that's what you use, and you don't even know how to say it. But enough to look at, Mr. Markovic, your ring and your watch. Your ring is worth more than someone's cars are worth, than someone's houses are worth. Your watches are worth tens of thousands of marks, Mr. Markovic, how did you earn it, how did you get it? You will defend Vojislav Seselj! Do not defend Vojislav Seselj, no other Serb, you defend your Zoran Djindjic, you will end up in the same place and in the same way, as and where Zoran Djindjic will end up.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18585	We're moving on to the amendment debate. Is anyone else reporting for an amendment to article 10 submitted by MP Zivko Selakovic? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 38, against 101, a abstentioned one, did not vote 43, a total of 183 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th Amendment, with correction, was filed by the People's Councilman Arsen Kurjački. The Government, the Committee on Finance, the Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He's got the word of the People's Councilman Arsen Kuryacki.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18586	The Honorable Presidency, fellow MPs, is now difficult to regain our attention to what is our primary task, to work for and what we are paid for here. Unfortunately, there has been another abuse of a pay phone for inter-party purposes, or personal bickering. But hopefully it won't happen today and we can start working. So my amendment again refers to the debate on the legacy, which the predecessors also spoke about, by making it clear that I have defined a certain group and certain amounts, which should be changed. Why did I initiate this - for the simple reason that the debate on the legacy is an extraparnical procedure where citizens do not influence and cause this procedure, so it is normal, in accordance with that occasion, to be kept in mind and the height of that court fee, which should be charged by that successor. Namely, every heir is able to participate in the process of discussing the legacy, and regardless of its small or no personal income, he is obliged to pay that fee. That's the essence of the whole story. Why did I suggest that just the heirs of the first inheritance order, the spouse and the parents of the abandoner, and for the very amount of the legacy of more than 200,000 dinars, be released from the payment of the court fee, so just for that category? We all know the situation in our villages, that our villages have relaxed, that agriculture is totally in poor shape, that the estates are below every criticism, below every building value. We have heirs who are in cities, in factory halls, who don't work, and who expect something to happen so they don't have to go back to the villages without any perspective. However, any property that remains in the country is objectively worth more than 7,000 DM as provided for in this tax category. So, according to the promoter, the heir is obliged to pay up to 10,000 dinars in court fees. We're wondering how a destitute heir, who is being held as an employee, and the fact that he's been receiving no income for many years, will pay for it? And let me remind you, under the Law of Court Taxes, the court of a taxable person shall be released only if he has no property, or if he is unemployed. Only in those two cases, as far as the legacy is concerned. So, a large number of citizens are on forced vacations, receiving the lowest net earnings. Simply, at the moment the court adopts a settlement on inheritance, it is then considered that he has property and cannot be exempt from paying a fee. It's a practice I was already talking about. So the question arises whether he should sell that house, the country, that his grandfather to sell below the price, so he could pay that tax to 10,000 dinars, because objectively, at these moments, he is unable to obtain that kind of money. Or to give up those assets for the benefit of another heir who can pay that fee. Another thing that's very symptomatic, and that's inheritance tax. We passed the Law in April 2001, where Article 21, point 1, laid down that the inheritance tax and the gift were not paid by the heir of the first inheritance order, the spouse and the parent of the leaver, just the ones I had proposed. Then, analoguely, we should apply the same principle to court fees. So this amendment will not greatly reduce some inflow in the Republic of Serbia's budget, which is far more just for citizens. With this amendment, we would harmonize this basic idea both in terms of taxes and in terms of court taxis. (President Gordana Komic: Four and a half minutes. We must bear in mind that the legacy under consideration was often attended by the children of the abandoner, the spouse, and the parents. We know what family cooperatives look like. That is why, among other things, these heirs are also exempt from paying taxes, so we should also release them from paying this high tax. (President: five minutes. ) Those lower taxes are not so much a problem, but these high taxes should be released, especially if we have in mind that we have freed them from taxes that are much more important to the budget than these taxes.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18587	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 57, against 71, a abstentioned one, was not voted 44, a total of 173 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Miroljub Veljkovic. The Government, the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Miroljub Veljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18588	Dear People's MPs, it is really hard to speak after such a host and such a top intellectual from this party, as it is called, these most powerful political options in the country -- the Serb Unity Party. Imagine that pretentiousness. But what, after such orators and such capacities, we must address this high home. In the previous period, we have heard many times that Minister Batic from this pay phone said there should be justice, even if the world fails. In his revolutionary enthusiasm, he said it here at least a dozen times. It's okay. Let there be justice, but these justices should be for all. With solutions like this, such as height and level of court taxis, we will, in practice, make it impossible for our citizens to seek judicial protection, legal protection, from this state. Ten percent of those that sell coal, etc., will normally be able to go to business disputes, etc. And to protect themselves legally, and the vast majority of the poor won't be able to do it. I absolutely do not dispute that the material position of the judiciary and even the holders of judicial functions is extremely difficult and I do not dispute that it is necessary to significantly improve this status and material position. But Mr. Batic's explanation doesn't kind of drink my water. Now the holders of judicial functions in the country are in a depressed state, there's a lot of depression because of their material position, and now we're going to increase 5, 10, 20 times the court fee. Well, from those court fees, we're going to raise their salaries to 1,000 marks, and we're going to fix the material position of the judiciary at all. Well, the miners are depressed, depressed when they hear who's selling their coal. That's a lot of depression. What's it supposed to be, the price of coal now is 500 marks per tonne? And the bakers are depressed -- let's raise the price of bread to 100 dinars. The essence of my amendment to Article 11 is that I suggested that instead of 150 dinars, how much tax so far, and the government's proposal is to make it 500 dinars, that's 200 dinars, that's to raise the tax by 35%. I think it's appropriate to the current material position of the citizens. In the second position of this same member, I suggested that 80 dinars be paid for the return of the will at the court of custody, and the proposal was 150 dinars. So I'm thinking that these proposed amounts, not only in this member but also in all members, are extremely high and should be reduced. So I suggest you accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18589	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 42, against 80, the abstentions were not voted 46, a total of 168 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment, with a correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Petar Cvetkovic and Gjorge Mamula. The Government, the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a People's MP, George Mamula, on behalf of the common amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18590	According to the proposal, for a proposal to implement a share of common items or assets, for a decision on the proposal, for a division, for a complaint against a decision under the proposal, as well as for a second-degree decision, 1,000 dinars are paid. We've suggested a cut in half because the average salary is 7,200 dinars, and the dinar is 240 dinars, when it comes to pay. So the tax should not exceed the amount of two diaries. That's our criterion, seeing as the others don't explain what they're handling when they're suggesting a taxi cut. I think two diaries are reasonable enough to accept our amendment. I don't think the tone data shows the right condition with the quorum, so since it's important questions, we should still plead out the way it's supposed to be decided in the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18591	The MP expressed doubts about the result of the electronic system when it comes to quorum. I ask the MPs to establish the quorum so we can continue our work. I figure we have a quorum and we can keep working. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 51, against 78, the abstentions were not voted by 17, a total of 146 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Vujic. The Government, the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The applicant of the amendment wants a word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18592	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, amendment to Article 12, which has submitted to the SRS, is an attempt to invite MPs of the assembly majority to sound, normal and logical thinking, and it may seem (like) a vain attempt, since the amendment is similar to the previous amendment submitted to the same member by a group of DSS MPs. This is about this: right through the government's argument I will try to find a counterargument to convince you that it is necessary to adopt this amendment. Please, don't count my time quoting the government's argument at the intended time for an explanation. The government's statement reads: "The government does not accept the amendment, since the tax is determined by this member of the bill in proportion to the other fees. The amount of tax proposed by the amendment is insufficient to allow the basic objective of which is to propose an increase in taxis, which is to bring them in line with the changed economic pressures and the increased costs of the court's work compared to 1997 when the taxes were last changed." What the government did wrong, in my opinion, was that it shouldn't have put this on and thereby reduced its proposal, which is this: "the tax has been increased in proportion to other fees". It's as if the promoter is. The government managed only by niche of existing court taxis, even in this case. When it says that it needs to be aligned with changed economic opportunities, it is the essence of the amendment of the SRS -- it is unnecessary to increase the current tax of 200 dinars to 1,000 dinars; it is 500 per cent increase. These are not changed economic opportunities since 1997, until today; if it was to be brought into line with the changed economic opportunities, then the economic moment of the family in our Serbia should have been respected. Therefore, we have suggested that this increase from 200 to 400 dinars, an increase of 100 per cent will be able to contribute to all citizens participating in the protection of their judicial rights (especially with regard to this member) and that they can participate in this by their economic power. What's this article about anyway? Fees are paid for the decision under the motion for division, the appeal against the decision under the proposal, as well as the second-degree decision. It's about the share of the common property. The vast majority of citizens participate in judicial proceedings on this issue. If the government wants to help the court and our judiciary and get those 1,000 marks through this increase in taxis, maybe they will. But on the other hand, all those who want to participate in court proceedings where the debacle of common property is determined, will do so... (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. )......................................................................................................... the non-institutional system. This government is not a good thinker and I urge you that if you have not adopted the previous amendment, you now adopt this one and help the citizens achieve their protection in court, not past the court.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18593	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 31, against 98, the abstentions were not voted 18, out of 147 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Vukic. The Government, the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has MPs Gordana Pop-Lazic, as representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18594	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, SRS MP Aleksandar Vukic has tabled an amendment related to heading 11, which refers to a proposal to regulate the border, to decide on the proposal, to appeal against a decision under the proposal, as well as a second-degree decision to pay 1,000 dinars. It used to be 300 dinars, and our amendment requires it to be at most 400 dinars. Why? Because simply editing the border can't be done without being used, doesn't pay four times the fee for such a thing. First comes the motion for an order, so you have to pay for the decision, and mostly there's a complaint, because if there was no need for the border office, it wouldn't go through court. So he's going after the appeal for a decision, and mostly because of the complaint to the second-degree authority, you have to pay a second-degree decision. So in order to determine your relationship with your neighbor, which is sometimes necessary, if you want to build or build (we have a lot of disputes of this kind) then you have to separate at least 4,000 dinars, plus more to transport, bring people out of court, so since they're depressed, you have to take them to lunch and a lot more. So it's 4,000 dinars instead of being a maximum of 1,600 dinars. The government's argument, which is almost identical for the rejection of all amendments, is indeed unprincipled because the government says it wants to retain the same parameter and make this increase proportionate (proportional) for all taxes. Here, for the previous amendment explained by Mr Vujic, that increase was four times, and here is the increase three times. All along the debate on this proposal, SRS MPs have advocated that a principled increase in taxis will be, if we have in mind the parameters that have affected it, twice, three or five times, and that the government has decided in such a way to increase taxis in a completely different way, we could talk about it. This is how we keep our principle that the increase in taxis can go the most double, and in those taxis in the most frequent disputes, or when it comes to the transcripts or over the signatures, it's almost daily need and what the most funds are collected from, we looked for it to be less than double. And while I'm here, since the president of the National Assembly won't allow me a line, for the sake of the public, to this Mr. Markovic who dared to mention my family...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18595	I remind the People's Parliament that, on the basis of the content of the amendments to Article 13, which was submitted by MP Aleksandar Vukic. I'd like to ask you to talk about the amendment to the pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18596	... And my wife, to tell him that my husband was a man who worked for 25 years and who really got fired from the new government, only because he's my husband, and I'm 46 years old and 22 years old, and he's a law school. Whether I've done or haven't done anything in my life, here's what you can estimate.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18597	Four minutes, Mrs. Pop-Lazic, with a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Since this is the attitude of the MP, and the MPs who go out for the speaker are more practical than precedents, and from the SRS parliamentary group came a request for strict application of the Rules of Procedure, then I can ask you for the last time that if you ask for strict application of the Rules of Procedure, the least you can do is to apply it yourself. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? National MP Petar Jojic throws himself out of the bench, and do you want him to start running off the bench right away? I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 27, against 106, the abstentions were not voted 23, out of 156 ambassadors. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Bozidar Vucurovic submitted to the 14th amendment. The Government, the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18598	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs and this amendment, like all amendments of the SRS, are heading towards a reasonable burden on citizens. Now, there's probably some mistake in the government's reasoning here, because the government says it doesn't accept the amendment because the cancellation of the I.D. from (here it's the cancellation of the I.D.) of 20,000 dinars would be paid by a court tax of 1,000 dinars, for the value of an I.D. of 25,000 dinars would be paid a 800 dinar tax, so I'm well aware of the bill, and I've seen it here for disputes of between 20 and 50,000 dinars of 300 dinars, and my amendment says 500, and it's probably a printing error, so we'll ignore this argument from the government. Then it would be for a However, a demagogue explanation for the application of the provisions of this law needs to be broken here. The reason is that the moment the law was passed, it was 100 dinars or 30 marks. We don't change the law when he makes it, we change it now. Now that's three stamps. If the law had been amended in 1995, we could have talked about it and all the laws that have changed, they would have called for a time when that law was passed as far as it was in the stamps. Why, when it was brought in, when we were changing it. By yesterday, our citizens paid for the cancellation of the I.D. three marks, and today they will pay 20 marks. So one day it's demagogy. It's only one day and it's said that 50% of the funds are returned to the courts. Reduce your fees by 50% and give 100% of the funds to the courts. This is the system -- let's operate without hurting. As a budget, it will remain the same, and so much will go to the courts. Don't let the budget go anywhere. Let it all go to the courts, and then the fees will be less than 50%.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18599	Is there anyone else applying for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For the 27, against the 99, the abstentions, did not vote 31, out of 157 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Srboljub Zivanovic submitted to the 15th amendment. The Government, the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here's a word from MP Srboljub Zivanovic, submitr of the amendment to Article 15. It's a bill of law.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18600	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we are elected here by the people and we here need this Parliament to behave with dignity. No one could and no one should sit here, if there is some dark past behind them while individuals have no bread, until individuals can carry out their duties, pay for electricity, pay for the heating. We must try here in this House to solve the problems for which our citizens have chosen us. I have submitted an amendment to Article 15, which is amended and reads as follows: The words "10 new" are replaced by "30". In point (2.) of the first subparagraph, point (c) is replaced by the following: The words "20 new" are replaced by "50". In point (3) of the first subparagraph, the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: The word "100 new" is replaced by "120". In the position (4.) Point 1) the words "20 new" are replaced by "40". In point 2) the words "200 new" are replaced by "300". In the position (5.) point 1. is replaced by the following: "1. For newly concluded contracts with a value of up to 10,000 dinars, the value - 200 dinars; - of 10,000 dinars - 100,000 dinars, the value - 300 dinars increased by 1% of contract value; over 100,000 to 1,000 dinars of value - 800 dinars increased by 0.5% of contract value; over 1,000 dinars of value - 2,500 dinars increased by 0.25% of contract value and up to 8,000 dinars." In point 2) the words "500 new" are replaced by "800". After point 3, point 4 is added, which reads as follows: "For the signing of the gift contract, 35% of the fee referred to in point 1 and 2 of this item is paid. "The explanation - I thought the proposed amounts and court fees were too large and should be significantly reduced. That is why I suggest that this amendment be adopted to reduce the fee for application, oral or written, where a certificate of signature, manuscript or transcription is sought. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18601	I thank the People's MP. Is anyone else applying for this amendment? Yeah. ) Here you are, MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18602	So as not to get the impression that we are really demagoguely approaching this law and at all the need to pay the court fees, to clarify a few things. What is fundamental is that we believe that court fees should be increased, that they should be appropriate and that the full amount of court fees should go to courts, because citizens have already fulfilled their obligation through other payments to the state and it is unnecessary for the state to further drag its hand into the citizens' pocket. In the case of this amendment, which refers to heading 13, there is one illogicality and could have gone with this bill to a new system of payment of court fees, not just to an increase or harmonisation of amounts. Why? If we're already paying for the application, whether it's oral or written, which requires confirmation of signatures, manuscripts or transcripts, and there's no reason not to allow it, why are we paying that same bill again? So, one tax could be paid or taken to pay a fee once, but at the end of the procedure, so when all the legal remedies are exhausted before the competent authorities, then the citizen pays the tax as much as the law is intended, not to ask first, and then we pay to get it done, and then we complain, and then we pay again, and whenever we have any need to ask the court for anything, we have to pay taxes. Therefore, it was necessary to assess what level of tax is appropriate to a particular action in the court and that it is paid once, the best thing would be at the end of the procedure when the parties in the procedure get either a judicial solution or when they get some document, a certified signature, and not that we have to do it on multiple occasions, and even if we need a judicial interpreter, then of course we have to verify the signatures of the proxies and so on, then that and how it accumulated, and if it is 100 dinars or 500 dinars everywhere, as the government suggests, then when a substantial sum is collected. That is why it would be good for you to think this way when you are voting on amendments, not to reject amendments just because they come from opposition MPs, and we would warn the government that in the future, when it is already making amendments and amendments to existing laws, it is looking to perfect them a little bit, not just to take care of penalties or the level of taxis, or how to fill the budget. This way everyone would know they're filling the budget, I just don't know who's gonna fill it in this country, when this morning, there's a million-four thousand citizens living in misery.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18603	Is there a word for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 30, against 92, the abstentioned were not voted 38, a total of 160 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 15th Amendment, together with the correction, were submitted by MPs Petar Cvetkovic and Gjorge Mamula. The government, the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by MP Petar Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18604	Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group tabled an amendment to Article 15. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on judicial fees. In that Article 15. (explanatory explanation) the heading 13 of the earlier Law is amended, i.e. the amount of the intended fees is increased. The tariff number 13 refers to an application fee, oral or written, which requires the confirmation of signatures, manuscripts or transcripts, and then to a copy of the signatures, or manuscripts, a copy of the court's interpretation, a copy of the manuscript and a copy of the photocopies, etc. What we want to point out is that this tariff number proposes an increase in the tax by five times. For example, in paragraph 1 for an application requesting an overa signature or an overa photocopy of a document so far has been a fee of 10 dinars. I'll explain what kind of request it is. It's that plea that, for example, is written in a municipal court in one sentence - I ask you to give me confidence in punishment or in impunity. The tax so far has been 10 dinars only for that application. Then the tax for this same assurance or photocopy of a document by format A4 was charged for each sheet, or for one side of that form 20 dinars and it was 30 dinars total, application plus overa document. Now a five-time higher tax is proposed, so instead of a 10, 50 dinars are proposed, just for an application that reads in one sentence and which can be oral, it doesn't have to be written, as well as 100 dinars for each of the papers, let's say photocopy A4, and most often over the diploma, let's say a photocopy of the diploma. It's not just one copy, it's more than one copy, and it means it goes from 150 dinars to one piece of paper and so on. For each of the following paper is increased by 100 dinars, and these are, say, photocopies that have two or three, five or 10 pages, so you see which ones are the same in this article, which is important for me to point out, it's not about inheriting, it's not about litigation, it's about criminal proceedings, it's about a taxi in cases where a court as a state body issues assurance of any status, any other rights that are governed by the records, and it's about the identity of signatures and photocopies. Therefore, it is the proposal by the Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group to cut the proposal by half, so that for an application that can be oral and written tax, there are 25 dinars and for each paper of A4 50dinar format instead of 100, so that the increase is two and a half times instead of five times, as foreseen by the bill. Since Mr Batic has just now come across, he refers to heading 13 and I would ask Mr Batic to make a statement about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18605	The word has a minister of justice and local self-government.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18606	On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I accept the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18607	The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18608	Mr Petar Cvetkovic and Djordje Mamula had an amendment to the same tariff number as the MP, Srboljub Zivanovic of the Serbian Radical Party, and I am not surprised at all that the Prime Minister Batic's representative accepted this amendment, as it will cost him very much in his pocket that the rest is what the government has suggested, because I remind you that for parliamentary elections and for the presidential elections you must have certified signatures of those who support your list or your candidacy, 100 dinars per single signature, and it is hard for Batic to make it easy, and the elections are there. The elections are almost there, and in the spring will certainly be presidential, and with them I hope, and federal, this year, gentlemen and federal and republican, and local, so it will be difficult for citizens to get out of their pockets to support your lists and will have to pay for it by the parties.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18609	The word has a minister of justice and local self-government, Mr Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18610	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the first amendments are not identical, and that is why the Government could not accept the amendment of the honourable People's MP, Mr, Master, Srboljub Zivanovic, and among other things, because the amendment does not mean a proportional increase in the tax, depending on the value of the value, I repeat, because it is a tariff number 13 - certification procedure for signatures, manuscripts, transcripts and translations. There is even one anomaly, for example, in this amendment by Mr. Zivanovic, it is predicted that up to 10,000 dinars should be paid a tax of 200 dinars for newly concluded contracts, less than the amount that is now being paid under this Act that we are changing. So no arguments. And I repeat, they're not identical amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18611	Thank you. So the government accepted the amendment, the committees didn't. I put the amendments to Article 15 to the vote. For 119, against one, a abstentioned one, did not vote 43, out of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. On the 16th amendment, with the correction, the MPs Petar Cvetkovic and Gjorge Mamula together submitted. The Government, the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Do any of the applicants of the amendment want a word? There's a word for George Mamula.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18612	And in this amendment, the criteria were the average salary of 7,200 dinars. So, as you can see from the bottomlines, we've been going to make sure that the tax doesn't exceed 4 average wages, where it's proposed to be 1,000 dinars, or where 100 dinars are proposed, is not larger than half of the average wage daily. That's what we used to run.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18613	I thank the People's MP. Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 43, against 65, with four abstentions, they did not vote 53, a total of 165 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Janjic. The Government, the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you are, the word has the People's MP, Slobodan Janjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18614	With my amendment, I wanted to help Serbian citizens to pay at least these basic court fees and protect as many of their rights as they can. I asked for all these fines, court fees to be reduced by 50%, actually in the amount. Especially in indent 2 over 20,000 dinars of value is paid 400,00 dinars, increased by 5% and up to 2,000 dinars. I think it's a very large amount, especially if it's known that those who charge those fees always go and apply the largest amount, so it's one, for the impoverished citizens, a huge amount. In addition, history is repeated in this House. We seem to be going back to the JVI century. A dozen types of cakes are being introduced here in the Assembly because MPs are unhappy. Signs were collected yesterday by DOS MPs, even offering us, when citizens do not have the bread to eat, Mr Kovacevic goes from MPs to MPs and a real list -- who supports the list that MPs have ten kinds of cakes in the restaurant.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18615	I'm asking the MP to come back on the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18616	I think it's a shame. Here, I'll be back on the subject. There's been a lot of talk here. With me in southern Serbia, it is said -- woe to one who has nothing on his head or in his head. This time it applies to someone from the back bench. Mr. businessman, since you insulted me as a radical, you've played each and every person's defense when you attack them personally, but you insulted me personally. I'll tell you about your business. Your business partners...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18617	I remind the MP that since a representative of your parliamentary group has called for strict respect for the Rules of Procedure that if you go out and get a word in the debate on amendments, you must talk about the content of the amendments you have submitted to Article 16.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18618	And this is what taxes are paid for, so I'm going to give you an example. Businessmen with whom the businessman is dealing usually, according to his story, educate them and I say exhume them, usually the last to be seen by pathologists, and he says, pathologists, so I can't discuss his business much here.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18619	I ask the MP not to express intolerance...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18620	Gentlemen, out on the line. It's election time.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18621	... the way people talk. It is distasteful and inappropriate to the dignity of the National Assembly, each one speaks as he was taught in his childhood and has the right to do so and is not appropriate to the conduct of the MP to mock another MP's speech...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18622	It's not appropriate for those educated pathologists to see on those patients' concrete shoes.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18623	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 28, against 82, there are no abstentions, not 51, a total of 161 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The Government, the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here's a word from MP Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18624	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must refer to yesterday's presentation of Mr. Minister of Justice and local self-government Vladan Batic. In his statement, he said that these court fees charged by citizens do not go to the Department of Justice but to a special fund, a special budget account, and that part of those 50% revenues will be returned to courts to improve their material position. I'm interested, and I don't think the minister said it yesterday, what about the other 50% of these revenues, where they go and what they finance. I must also point out that the minister said it was about significant revenues, about 400 million dinars. So the question is where the other 50% is, why doesn't it all go back to the courts, because we know that our courts are in a bad material position. As for the government's wishes and intentions to achieve this budget, which was projected for this year at 230 billion dinars, that's close to eight billion marks, that government's wish is quite legitimate and legal, and it's logical. However, with its moves, which it makes, especially this year, and started last year, by firing a large number of workers, one of its significant sources of budget revenues has denied them. In fact, many workers who have been fired will no longer pay taxes on citizens' incomes, and that tax was one of the significant revenues of the budget. The government is trying to replace it in another way, trying to replace it with astronomical penalties for traffic offences, astronomical taxes, and now these astronomical court taxes. As regards the very amendment that I tabled on behalf of the SRS, it refers to Article 17, or, rather, to heading 15 - Law on judicial fees - this amendment is in line with the SRS' pledge to reduce these fees and be an appropriate moment in which we live, i.e. the economic power of Serbian citizens, who pay these taxes. The tariff number 15 refers to a book, or to a provision of property rights, and in this proposal, the law provides that the fees for the registration and the provision of property rights are to be increased from three to eight times. There are four bets here, four tariffs, and an increase of three to eight times. My proposal, i.e. the SRS proposal, is that this increase is reduced to a maximum of 100 per cent, compared to the current situation, under the current Law. So these amounts don't go beyond a hundred percent increase. I think it's quite realistic for this moment that we live in and that's what Serbian citizens can pay on the basis of court fees for registration and foremarking property rights.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18625	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? There's a minister's word, Mr. Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18626	Well, here, in one sentence alone, I will try to answer the question of the honourable MP, Mr. Zlatan Jovanovic. It is true that the Budget Law has been designed that the value of about two billion dinars per year represents practically a new judicial, i.e. a judicial budget, and that is out of control, outside of the Justice Ministry's account, and it goes to the promotion of the judiciary and is directly injected into the judiciary. So, not through the common register, not through the budget, but directly through this kind of judicial, i.e., practically judicial budget for improving the work of courts, for material costs, special purposes, and above all improving the materialngo position of judicial function holders. The remaining 50% of the revenues, which are realised through the collection of court fees, enters the budget and will be distributed, as has been done so far. I said that we wanted to just disburse the budget, as far as the holders of judicial functions, material costs, special purposes, and then that what goes back to the judiciary from the common register, serves to improve the material position of other employees in the judiciary, and they are practically, past three thousand judicial officials, another 60,000, because we have to make one balance, one fluctuation, and not someone gets big wages, and another crumbs. So these funds will also be spent and they are going in this standard way, through the budget, to the Justice Ministry's account.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18627	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I am putting the amendment to the vote and asking the MPs to plead. For 27, against 91, the abstentions were not voted 40, out of a total of 158 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 17th Amendment, with correction, were jointly submitted by MPs Petar Cvetkovic and Gjorge Mamula. The Government, the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? In the name of the applicant, there is a word from the national emissary Petar Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18628	The amendment of the DSS parliamentary group to Article 17 concerns the modification of the proposed amounts of the increase in the fee referred to in heading 15. The tariff number 15 provides for a registration fee, or for a provision of property rights, if legal work, or legal basis of acquisition.... etc. Taxes are up, so I don't read everything. The tariff number is long. An increase in the tax is proposed by 2.5 times. So in heading 1 out of 400 per 1,000, in heading 2 out of 160 to 500. This 2.5-fold increase in tax is not large, and our amendment does not foresee a significant reduction in the proposed fees by the government, so 1,000 dinars were first proposed. We suggested 800. So a very small reduction, etc. in other cash amounts. In addition to the arguments Mr. Gjorge Mamula pointed out, which is the height of the average salary and how much is a projection, where we believe that at the moment the level of the court taxis should move, I would especially for this heading number 15, and you will agree, there is a case that it is not applied everywhere in Serbia, because there are no land books set up in all courts in Serbia. It's for a small part of Serbia. We believe that the smaller fees in this tariff number will be somewhat the possible solution to a chaotic situation, where not all property rights, i.e. the remaining real rights, are fully entered, i.e. not completely cleared, which is indeed on the ground, or in terms of property rights. In other words, this right of property that some possess is not and is written in those books, recorded, or as the law says. That's what we find less tax to stimulate citizens to enroll all of their rights. The amendment therefore provides for a very small reduction of the taxis proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18629	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 39, against 67, the abstentioned were not voted 37, a total of 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. (National MP Natasa Jovanovic requests a word. ) He has the word National MP Natasa Jovanovic, as representative of the SRS parliamentary group (infringing the Rules of Procedure).
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18630	Madam Chairman, it is time to establish the quorum in the hall, given that the poorest MPs of the SRS, who make their views and defend the amendments, none of whom the government has accepted, so before I get the word, to explain my amendment, establish the quorum in the hall.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18631	National MP Natasa Jovanovic voices doubt, in electronic results, for quorum, for the work of the National Assembly, and I ask the MPs to establish the quorum. Fortification of the quorum. ) I suppose that of the MPs present and MP Lazar Marjanski is not interested in the amendment of his parliamentary group, and is leaving the hall. I'm guessing we have a quorum. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 18th amendment. The Government, the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18632	Who knows which way you somehow managed to get the quorum. It's the only way that the MPs of the SRS... (President: I ask the People's Parliament not to express similar judgments and opinions about what other MPs are doing. )......................................................................................................... Don't interrupt me, I'm talking about the amendment and I represent the SRS. (President: The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has a quorum without SRS MPs and with two SPS MPs. ) On the very worst of times, the whole public could see it. My goal was to make sure that you had to throw yourselves out of the way and show that you had to gather MPs in the congregation restaurant, around the buffets and in the halls. (President: I would ask the People's MP, Natasa Jovanovic, to return to the content of the amendments to Article 18) Mrs. Komic, this is neither an auction sale nor a bus station. You be patient, wait for the MPs to say what they have on their amendments and try to participate, as a representative of your party, in this way in discussions on the bill. As for Article 18 and the amendments that I submitted to the SRS parliamentary group, there was an absolute same argument given by the government, where it is said that it does not accept this amendment of Serbian radicals because the government's representatives decided that, in accordance with some proportion, they would write this amount of court fees. However, I am here as an applicant for the amendment, as well as other MPs of the SRS, to say that we are strongly opposed and we have only given a reasonable increase through reduction and that is the principle from beginning to end, where we have asked for this amount to be halved by the government. In line with the current very difficult economic situation in which our citizens are located, and especially because the heading 16 to which my amendment refers treats unusual litigation, litigation, but these are the most common cases in a party that initiates the procedure to attribute part of the property of a part of the house, apartment or land. We believe that a triple increase in taxis for these very common cases would be completely inappropriate in the situation where today's daily press reports that 1.5 million people live in misery, not on the edge of poverty, are about three million, but those who live in total misery. The amendments to Serbian Radicals are an opportunity in general to speak individually of the proposals of the law given to us by the Government of the Republic of Serbia -- an excellent opportunity to show the citizens that our goal as representatives of the party of honest and responsible people is to protect the interests of the widest layers of the population, to order from the assembly speakers all of Djindjic's dogs who bark from the pay phone. [[(elevator in the O.R.), that we'll stand up to them... (off microphone)]]
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18633	You have exceeded the time of the national MPs, Natasa Jovanovic, with three minutes and 17 seconds. I remind you of the obligation to address the people's MPs with respect and that this is the National Assembly and that it is our common duty to preserve the dignity of the National Assembly. (Natasa Jovanovic from the post: Thank you for your advice. ( b) Do any of the authorized participants want a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 13, against 106, the abstentioned were not voted 24 out of 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 19th amendment. The Government, the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18634	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have suggested that in the heading of article 17 of this bill, the tax is increased from 80 to 150 dinars. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when it comes to the material position of the judiciary, which is why it is mostly going to change and supplement this law, Serbian radicals believe that there would be somewhere more logical and smarter for court fees to go 100% to improve the work and material position of judicial authorities, but not just judges. There are 19,000 employees working in courts. I had a chance this morning to meet a man with a 27-year-old internship who works as a district court reference and says he works for two kilos of apples a day. So his diary is, like, two kilos of apples. It should not only be advocated here that the material position of only the judge improves, but also those 17,000 employees have the right, because they participate in a large and large part for the overall success and efficiency of the judiciary and the holders of judicial functions as a whole. As a result of this and those 17, 18,000 employees who on average have three members in the family, nearly 60,000 people should also be supported by the government and the state to think about them. As a result, court fees should not be increased, but court fees should be 100% at the expense of the relevant justice ministry and the justice ministry should be available and accountable for the spending of these funds. To increase the level of charges of court fees. In that case, it would achieve a goal and achieve the purpose of increasing the court fees. Like this, what's gonna happen in practice. In practice, it will happen that many citizens are just for the very reason of a huge increase in court fees, as well as their percentages are deterring and making it impossible for a huge number of citizens to exercise their rights. In practice, the following will appear to you, many who need to exercise their right and get certain decisions from competent authorities or courts, will not immediately go to the implementation of land, cadastrian and other public books, because it will delay and wait for a more favourable moment when they are able to pay. That's why the wrong move was such a drastic increase in the court cabs. It will reflect ladies and gentlemen the MPs, in practice very quickly. Today and in seven days you'll have... (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. )......................................................................................................... Citizens who will verify, but after this law comes into force, come to the counters of the courts, you will see if the citizens are going to exercise their rights. If you allow me just two or three more sentences, the laws on justice have been passed, but in practice it has proved that they are not good... (President: four minutes. )......................................................................................................... I end up, they weren't good, because they didn't come from the right promoters.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18635	I remind you that the overrun of the length of time has been set for the debate to violate the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 18, against 105, the abstentions were not voted 23, out of 146 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Ljubomir Kragovic submitted the 20th amendment. The Government, the Committee on Finance, the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18636	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 20 relating to heading 18. The tariff number 18 shall be used for the entry of a certified deed in the book of the deed, as well as for the entry of the right of property through the transfer of the deed, on the same or new owner, if the legal basis or basis of acquisition and on this basis can be entered, shall not be subject to the real estate tax, shall be paid and offered 1,000 dinars, regardless of the value of the right. In the following position, in the position of 1st of this heading, the basis for the acquisition on the basis of which the registration of the gift contract will be effected, 500 dinars shall be paid regardless of the value of the right and which, in my view, is not logical. First, these fees are multiplely increased, disproportionately paid power of the population. Otherwise, the very statement that by increasing taxis will be better and more independent judiciary, it's actually a two-strike sword, because it won't have anyone to pay these taxes. I suggested that Article 20 reads: "In heading 18, paragraph 1, the word "400 new" is replaced by "800" and that is one drastic increase in this fee. In heading 2, the word "160" is replaced by "300". In point 1) of point 3, the words "160 new" are replaced by "300", and in point 2) the words "40 new" are replaced by "80". In the fourth word, "40 new" is replaced by "80". I think the proposed amounts for court fees are too large, they need to be reduced. That is why I propose that this amendment be adopted because this is an increase, although the argument is only to improve the situation in the judiciary that is in very difficult conditions. I therefore appeal to the MPs to accept this amendment in order to raise these fees in proportion.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18637	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 19, against 107, the abstentioned were not voted 24 out of 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 20 of the amendment, with correction, the MPs Petar Cvetkovic and Gjorge Mamula together submitted. The Government, the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 41, against 78, a abstentioned one, was not voted 29, out of 149 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 21st amendment with the correction, MPs Petar Cvetkovic and Gjorge Mamula together submitted. The Government, the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Does any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 42, against 80, a abstentioned one, did not vote 26, out of 149 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 21st Amendment were submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic. The Government, the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The applicant for the amendment is not present. The word wants representatives of the SRS parliamentary group National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18638	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, several tariff numbers of this bill refer to notes or entries in the land's books of ownership, gifts, inheritances or burdens, and in this case it is a burden. These are a variety of claims, i.e. burdens such as mortgages, publishing right, the existence of a contract, say life support, the existence of a dispute over certain immovableities, and these are very frequent disputes and are often required by official duty to register certain burdens. The fees proposed by the government have been significantly increased, and we ask that they be only our amendments by 100% increased compared to those that existed in 1997. However, it is surprising that the Ministry of Justice and the Government is really uninterested to do something about the urgency of our courts' land and book departments. We will, for example, pay 1,000 dinars to register a note, or as much as 2,000 or 5,000 depending on whether or not it's a buy-in contract or an inheritance, and we will get a copy of the land-book in their own name, or a land-booking department will carry it out in four or five years. That's how it happens in Belgrade. Now let's say for 1995, 1996, and if you bought an apartment in 1996 to this day, you couldn't register it, so on what we represented in the principle debate, why should Serbian citizens credit the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Wouldn't it make sense to pay for it when the court makes a certain note? In order to get them to be up-to-date, if that's the goal, if this means are to contribute, then the government and the minister of justice, if they're even on their own, and if they know what the situation is in our land-book departments in municipal courts, that this is how they correct this law, could take advantage of that opportunity, and unfortunately it's not because they don't care about the urgency, they don't care that the citizens get their rights as soon as they can, but only to take the money from the citizens, and then the finance minister will be able to transfer those 50% to the courts, instead of, if there's already a special fund, it goes to the restary minister, and then he's counting as a resolution minister on it really being up-to-date and that the monthly funds are being transferred to the courts. This way, we know how it's going, waiting for the finance minister to have mercy on whether he needs money for pensions, so he'll take it from there, or need it for something else, whether the judges will even get those funds that need to improve their material position and the material position of the courts.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18639	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 18, against 98, a abstentioned one, did not vote 26, of 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP Veroljub Arsic submitted the 22nd amendment. The Government, the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Amendment applicants are not present. Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 17, v 97, a abstentioned one, did not vote 30, out of 145 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment, with a correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Petar Cvetkovic and Gjorge Mamula. The Government, the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Does any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 39, against 78, the abstentions were not voted 30, out of 147 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Goran Cvetanovic. The Government, the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Goran Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18640	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, I have tabled an amendment to Article 23. Article 23 is amended as follows: "In heading 21, item 1, the words "100 new" are replaced by "200". The bill proposed that it be 500, and the amendment of the Serbian Radical Party's position (2) changes and says: "For the application of creditors in bankruptcy proceedings and in the liquidation process is paid according to the value of the claim: - up to 250,000 dinars - 300 dinars"; - over 250,000 dinars of value - 350 dinars increased by 1% of the amount of demand, and up to 800 dinars, in the Bill's proposal that is 500 and 2,000, respectively, means, the amendment of the Serbian Radical Party is a much smaller amount, i.e. 350 and 8,000 dinars. In the 4th word, "120 new" is replaced by "250", and in the bill there are 500; approximately, the amendment of the Serbian Radical Party's financial commitments is twice as much as in the bill. I will remind you that heading 21 actually refers, first of all, to the proposal to open the bankruptcy procedure and the winding-up procedure, as well as to the proposal for an emergency settlement and secondly, to report the trustee in the bankruptcy procedure, in the process of liquidating the payment on the value of the claim. So, you see for yourself that it's just a bankruptcy procedure, a liquidation procedure, and that means those legal entities that are not financially capable, or are in bankruptcy or the liquidation process, and thus the Serbian Radical Party has proposed that they be just less tax and segregation, for the simple reason that these entities do not have financial resources, because they would have had adequate business. The government's reasoning is absolutely not adequate, as it is said that the level of the tax is insufficient to allow for a basic objective, which is to bring them in line with the change in economic opportunities and increased costs of the work of courts compared to 1997. That is exactly what this is all about, which is what the economic situation has completely changed, and unfortunately the citizens of Serbia have changed in a negative context. Unlike the companies that go into bankruptcy proceedings and the process of liquidating a particular company such as the New Popovac cement factory in Praćin, which has about 2,500 workers on the payroll, and is sold for 52 million dollars and means there are companies where individual, allegedly opposition MPs should know, since they are at their end and in this company "New Popovac" about 20 workers are members of the Democratic Party and they, I suppose, are voluntarily taking 0.5% of the membership fee. The question arises as to why Mr. Križan Darko, who was the director of the cement and member of the Democratic Party, allowed the print-out of the Democratic Party's name above the suspension column on all payrolls. That's right, I'll remind you once you worked and you paid membership fees in the Union of Communists, where they directly took membership fees from people.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18641	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 22, against 98, the abstentions were not voted 30, a total of 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Miroljub Veljkovic submitted to the 24th amendment. The Government, the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is by MP Miroljub Veljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18642	Dear People's MPs, heading 22 defines the amount of taxis during bankruptcy, when the company's bankruptcy is launched and the company's liquidation is liquidated. In the current bill, the amount of taxis ranged between 500 and 5,000 dinars, with the current proposal proposing that it be between 1,000 and 10,000 dinars, and I suggested a medium solution in front of the SRS parliamentary group to be between 800 and 6,000 dinars. Why did I do that? It is clear that because of the difficult legacy of the past, the structural discrepancies of our economy and transition, the method of transitioning our economy as prepared, for which I am absolutely not, that a huge number of companies in this country will enter the period of bankruptcy and at the end of the liquidation. It is quite clear and completely certain and now a principled question is being asked. So the budget will not be damaged if this solution is accepted to be some medium solution between 800 and 6,000 dinars, the budget will not be damaged, because a huge mass of companies will have to pay those fees in the bankruptcy proceedings. However, we will make it easier for many firms in the difficult process of opening a bankruptcy process, making it as easy for them as their economic situation. I'm surprised, since it's quite clear to many of our ministers that it's been checked by Marxists and that Marxism probably had 9 and 10, science doctors, and they don't know a basic fact from Marxism that quantity goes to quality. If we expect 20,000 or 30,000 firms to enter a very short period of bankruptcy, why not make it easier for these companies to have that financial position and at that point and reduce these fees to the proposed level, as I suggested.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18643	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 27, against 100, the abstentions were not voted 29, a total of 156 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Bozidar Vujic submitted to the 25th amendment. The Government, the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger Bozidar Vujic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18644	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment to Article 25 refers to the payment of court fees to the court register. The Serbian Radical Party proposes not to accept the proposal. Governments say that this increase is almost 400%, but that it only increases 100 percent. The 100 per cent increase argument is in the situation and at the economic moment where our society is located and an increase of 400 per cent, which will contribute to improving the financing of the judiciary, is not appropriate to today's economic moment. I think it would be more adequate and better if it was only 100 percent. The fact is that it is the government's basic intensities to try to finance the judiciary in some additional way by increasing the court's fees to an enormous amount, as the proposal provides. What is a fact is that both the courts and the entire judiciary in our country are basically financed from the budget, while judicial fees are as an intention to increase the efficiency of courts as well as the fact that increased judicial awareness will increase the payments of judges and employees in the judiciary, especially in the case of judges in the amount and to a level of 1,000 marks will be a little problematic if it is only from court fees. These court fees are additional revenue and are an unknown annual financial amount, and even in 100% of the amount are not the original income of the courts concerned, i.e. the origin of the courts, and falls into the water of the government's proposal that these increased court fees will contribute to the payment of 1,000 marks by judges. By increasing court taxis, the government says both the quality and efficiency of the court's work will be improved. The same nonsense by the government, because increasing the efficiency and quality of the work of the court can only be achieved by good staff solutions and by increasing professional understanding of the profession. I therefore suggest that you accept the amendment of the Serbian Radical Party and that it is sufficient to enrol in the court register to increase that court fee of 100% and no more than 400%.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18645	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 28, against 95, the abstentions were not voted 32, a total of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Vucurovic. The Government, the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here's a word from the People's MP Bozidar Vucurovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18646	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I could agree for the first time that these fees, when it comes to enrolment, are not large. But let's follow the principle. The principle that the minister here has been claiming for days...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18647	I ask the People's MPs to respect Article 100, 101 and 103 of the Rules of Procedure and do not receive...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18648	I don't call for lunch. Don't sign up. We're starting at zero, Madam Chairman. If you don't calm down, then it's really pointless for you to give anyone your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18649	You're all mine here, and you can start wherever you want.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18650	I accept to be yours but not here.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18651	You will have to because you are a people's messenger and I am the chairman of the National Assembly. Here you go, MP, to start over with time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18652	The principle for which the minister has been here for days is: the uniformity of the increase in taxis. And in this member of the law that changes we have in heading 24 item 1, 3, 7, an increase of 2.5 times, in paragraphs 2, 4, 5, 6, 9, 10 and 11. Let's all get down to 3.5 times and then be happy and let the minister be right for once. This is not a tax to be paid on a solution made by application. It is a tax paid before the adoption of a solution on application, and the solution is then waiting and again for citizens and legal persons to lend the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and again the funds go to the Ministry of Finance instead of at the expense of the Ministry of Justice, and again from the finance ministry's account we know that when, and we don't know whether it will come to the expense of the Justice Ministry at all, because there are always too many costs. So I really don't think the fees are too big. The fee of 1,000 dinars for a solution to the establishment of a company is not too large. We went to 800,00 dinars here, but we went to even the increase, to even it up about twice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18653	I thank the People's MP. Is anyone else applying for a word after this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 29, against 96, there are no abstentions, not 31, a total of 156 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Srboljub Zivanovic submitted to the 27th amendment. The Government, the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here's a word from MP Srboljub Zivanovic. An intervention from MPs' benches of MP Milorad Mircic -- that should be written by the magistrate Srboljub Zivanovic. I'll read it, but it says "Srboljub Zivanovic" in the synopsis.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18654	Before I explain my amendment, Madam Chairman, I would like to ask you to establish a quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18655	Thank you, MP Zivanovic, please take your place and save your MP card. You'll have to put the card back in your Rules of Procedure when we're looking for a quorum. I ask the MPs to establish a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I am informing the MPs present, who intervene similarly with the MP, Milorad Mircic, that there are warnings for not passing cards, that this is not possible because at this time the session of the Assembly is not running, because we are determining the quorum. [[Sagar.]] It is the duty of every MP to respect the Rules of Procedure and to insert the card. I am informing the present Members of the Parliament that I am setting a break in today's work. [[Sagar.]] We'll continue our work at 15.00 hours. I ask all MPs to be present. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18656	Ladies and gentlemen, please insert your cards into the MPs to determine the quorum. I'm guessing we have a quorum. The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. The Government, the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There's a word from MP Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18657	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when I defended and explained the amendment to Article 15, I asked this House for dignity and the level of this House. Again, individuals abuse the name of the MP. When the Serbian public monitors events in the Republika Srpska Assembly, certain moral standards cannot be met by attending the republican parliament. When workers are left out of work, when they don't receive salaries, when agricultural problems don't solve, we solve minor issues here. I have submitted an amendment to article 27, which is amended and reads as follows: "In heading 25, the word "40 new" is replaced by "80". Reason - I believe that the amount of 80 dinars is an adequate amount for the court fee, for the delivery of the registered data, for publication in the "Official Journal of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia". We, the Serbian Radicals, are in favour of reducing this fee and I think the Proposer will accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18658	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 25, against 118, the abstentions were not voted by 13, a total of 156 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 28th amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Janjic. The Government, the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? The People's Messenger Slobodan Janjic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18659	By amendment to Article 28, I asked that the number 500 be replaced by 300, i.e. the amount of tax be reduced from 500 to 300 dinars. In Section 2, I asked that instead of number 300, be put in number 160. I believe that the fees that have been paid so far, that it is enough to increase in 100 per cent and that this amount of five times the increase is very high. I would just like to point out the incorrect move of an MP here in the Assembly, Mr Stanko Kovacevic. Mr. Stanko was wearing that cookie declaration yesterday, and today he's harassing the press and he won't make a statement. Confirm that you were looking for cakes of various kinds and colors, in a congregation restaurant, and the citizens have nothing to eat. I protected you when you were recruited by Prime Minister Djindjic with 300,000 marks.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18660	Is anyone else answering for word on this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For vote 30, against 114 abstentions, did not vote 23, out of 167 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The word has a folk MP, Stanko Kovacevic, (right to replicate the presentation of MP Slobodan Janjic).
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18661	I don't really know, Madam Chairman, what should we do for this speaker to make certain MPs stop doing stupid things for this speaker? Alexander Wolf, I didn't do this here in the Assembly. I don't think it's right for you to tell me, but I'm talking about stupid stories, about some racket. That's what I'm talking about, and I'm not talking about cookies. Is it possible to stand up for this pay phone once with these stupid stories? That's what I'm talking about, Mr. Wolfie, and you know it well, why I say it. Thank you. [[Alexander Vukic seeks the right to reply.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18662	He didn't insult you after all, he just spoke to you. Well, if you think you're offended, but he just came to you, he didn't insult you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18663	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I understood that Mr. Kovacevic came forward for the cake. It would be good if citizens could put in their menu a number of kinds of cakes. First of all, there were words here about the signing of some act, it can't possibly be a declaration, or I don't know what request to the competent congregation services, probably a petition to allow MPs to eat several kinds of cakes. What the SRS MPs say is a question and a problem, which is that the people have less and less to eat, and it's not the most pressing concern and the most obstacles and the biggest problem will anyone have more cakes here at the restaurant? I don't want to be incorrect and get into it, and say what happened in the relationship between Mr Kovacevic and some other people, prime ministers and some other people, as he shows up at different press conferences for the evening, it doesn't matter. I understand Mr Kovacevic, I understand him. (The voice from the hall: it's full of prowess. Maybe he's full of it, and maybe he's not, probably those who might be able to recalibrate him, I know that, those who might be threatening him, don't worry about it. You know who does it, who could do it. Fortunately, you're part of the government, so no one can do that to you today. Don't worry about it. When you go into opposition, Mr Kovacevic, we will protect you, believe me, no one will recalibrate you, no one will touch you and harass you, and what is certain, which you would have to take more care of as a MP, that is - how many Serbian citizens will have on their menu, not the MPs. We've got enough here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18664	We continue the discussion in detail. On the 28th amendment, with a correction, the MPs Petar Cvetkovic and Gjorge Mamula together submitted. The Government, the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Justice did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. There's a word from MP Petar Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18665	Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment to Article 28 refers to a fixed fee in heading 26. The tariff number 26 refers to the tax which has been established for the private suit and the countersuite. It is a taxi that has been found to be a minor criminal offence, where the state is not interested in prosecution through a public prosecutor, and these are the mildest crimes, such as insult, slander and similar crimes, which the state considers not to be significantly injured by social interest, so it is left to the Commission to prosecute this by pressing a private suit. The current tax was in the amount of 160 dinars for the private lawsuit, and now it is proposed to increase to 500 dinars. Given that the tax on the private suit with that amount of fees for the suit is not ending, but is going normally, as in all these cases before the court, and the first-degree sentence fee, so possibly, the fee for the appeal, the second-degree sentence fee, it increases by twice, about two and a half times. Therefore, since it is criminal acts that do not pose a major social danger, that are milder criminal acts, we do not consider that an increase should be made in this amount, as this implies that the amount of the charges on the suit is paid, as I said, and the fees for the first-degree verdict, appeal and second-degree ruling. Therefore, according to us, or as proposed by the amendment of the DSS parliamentary group, the planned tax should be reduced, instead of 500 dinars for the lawsuit, to stand at 300 dinars, as well as for the appeal, instead of 300 dinars, 150 dinars. I think that, given all the arguments that we have made in principle and in previous amendments, and that they are not huge amounts that would be collected on this basis, which would lead to one legal certainty, because the tax will be closer to the material opportunities of citizens and to the harms of their citizens, notably by the law of protected rights, which is honor and reputation, this article should accept the DSS amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18666	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 65, against 88, two abstentions, were not voted 28, a total of 183 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 29th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. The government, the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk member Dragan Colic, who submits the amendment to Article 29.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18667	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the motivation to submit my amendment to Article 29 is what all the MPs of the SRS wanted with their amendments, which is to reduce the enormously high court fees whose height certainly won't cheer up any participants in the court proceedings. The government of the Republic of Serbia is trying to convince Serbian citizens that another attack on the standard of citizens, an increase in the price of court fees, is indeed lacking in citizens. They miss it so much that they're worried, why the government hasn't responded before and raised the prices of court taxis, when it's all picked up: bread, electricity, when taxes are increased, when the economy doesn't work. Then why don't you make the citizens' courts comfortable by raising the prices of the court taxis. Well, in Europe, which you often advocate, the prices of court taxis are high. Then why should we be behind Europe, why should we be decadent? We Serbian radicals believe that the material position and well-being of all citizens of Serbia is imperative for each government. There's no way we can agree on an irrational price hike. We will vote against a bad bill, and your DOS majority will automatically "yes" for what will inevitably endanger many families in Serbia. Serbian citizens do not have enough money to eat from their messy salaries, and there is no speech about meeting the other needs. You DOS gentlemen, as if you live under a glass bell. The people are indignant by your rule and the increasing and greater demands of the state. Is it normal for certain taxes to amount to 12,500 dinars? Will the material position of the pavosuary workers, which you have brought down on the lowest borders, improve by increasing the court cabs? Do you DOS gentlemen only know how to raise prices? (Milka Marinkovic: Yes. One of the MPs told me that Milk was called a parrot. With great pleasure, I would like to congratulate you on your recent departure from power, on the enthusiasm and happiness of the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18668	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 37, against 115, the abstentioned were not voted 33, a total of 185 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 29 of the amendment, the MPs Petar Cvetkovic and Gjorge Mamula jointly submitted. The government, the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Do any of the applicants of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? He doesn't want to. I put the amendments to the vote. For 58, against 92, a abstentioned one, was not voted 36, a total of 187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic submitted to the 30th amendment. The government, the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic, who submits the amendment to article 30 of the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18669	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Article 30. The Government's Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judicial Taxes refers to changes in heading No 28, in paragraphs 1, 2, 3 and 4, and is replaced by the number "200" in paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 and the word "80 new" and the word "160 new" is replaced by "500". In particular, the government is asking for a lawsuit against the administrative act, which triggers an administrative dispute, i.e. a lawsuit against the decision of the competent authority, which triggers the administrative-account dispute, to be paid 200 dinars. So far, it's been paid 80 dinars. The lawsuit against the first-degree court's decision has so far been paid 80 dinars, and the government is demanding that it be now 200 dinars. For a retrial suit, the government is demanding 200 and 80 dinars have been paid. So in these three cases, the three positions of heading 28, the government is asking for an increase of two and a half times, and the SRS parliamentary group proposes that it be 160 dinars per attitude. Finally, in paragraph 4) the government proposes an increase of over three times, i.e. asking for an emergency review of the court's ruling in the administrative dispute, instead of the current 160 dinars, to be paid 500 dinars. We're proposing a significantly smaller amount, and that's 300 dinars. Maybe the minister would accept this amendment of mine, but there's no time right now, because he's busy with some other things. As we can see, what is really starting to worry, the government sees an increase in prices. They say half of it will go to raise the salary of judges who judge in courts and in that people's court, until one day the other one dies, it looks like they won't be able to get them an increase of 1,000 marks without it, and they promised. I wonder again, and then we're left with healthcare workers, we're left with educational workers, we're left with employees in the railways and other public enterprises and public services that the government needs to finance from the budget. What we're going to have to pay more to get everybody decent wages to live on. Therefore, the SRS parliamentary group calls on the government and you to support this amendment and allow these disputes to be conducted under more favourable conditions.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18670	Thank you. Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 39, against 121 abstentions, there were no 28 votes, a total of 188 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Blazic. The Government, the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here's a word from MP Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18671	Ladies and gentlemen, here we have one thought that, first of all, comes down to whether the height of the proposed increase in the tax is adequate to the current situation in society and the material possibilities of citizens. It all comes down to this, one estimate of the promoter is that this should go several times, and we estimate that current opportunities and material citizens are not like that and that this is really too much of an imposition, that this is one repressivity. It is not good that we create a democratic society exclusively with repressive methods. This (more) goes to some participation of citizens in the judiciary than we can say are taxes. This is the practical participation of citizens in the trial. That's why I think it's proposed here in Article 31, heading 29, that from 160 dinars the tax is increased to 1,000 dinars, I think it's still too much. I've tried several times in front of the SRS here, as much as I do, and to make one proposal that might be more constructive means 300 dinars. If it were a double increase, it might be more, but it's essentially so much increased that citizens can take this very hard. That's why I think this amendment should be accepted anyway.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18672	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 39, against 124 abstentions, there was no 28 vote, a total of 191 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. The Government, the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go. The word is made by MP Vitomir Plužarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18673	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment to Article 32. The SRS advocates a reduction in fees, so that it (amendment) regulates heading 30 for submissions requiring a conviction. The law proposes 50 dinars, and by amendment we propose that it be 20 dinars. It's modest. According to item two, 200 dinars are paid for the credentials, and we suggest that it be 160 dinars. I believe that the proposed amounts for court fees are too large, that they should be significantly reduced. I suggest that this amendment be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18674	I thank the People's MP. Is anyone else applying for a discussion on this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 35, against 127, the abstentioned were not voted 30, a total of 192 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 32nd Amendment, with a correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Petar Cvetkovic and Gjorge Mamula. The Government, the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by MP Petar Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18675	Look, I'll be very brief. The amendment to this article and to heading 30 is related to the heading 13 you accepted. The Justice Minister's representative accepted. Here in one sentence, it is proposed to pay a tax of 100 dinars for confidence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18676	I thank the People's MP. Mr Vladan Batic, Minister of Justice and Local Self-Government, came in.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18677	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I accept the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18678	The government accepted the amendment, but the committees didn't, so I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 144, there are no, abstentions three, no vote 44, a total of 191 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 33rd amendment was submitted by Parliament member Gordana Pop-Lazic. The government, the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here's a word from the People's MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18679	The amendment to Article 33, which regulates fees in heading 31, refers to the issuing of oral power to the minutes before the court, and the Government proposes instead of the 50 so far, because the party will declare on the record during the hearing: my authority in this dispute will be so. The recorder's gonna type that up. That's when he's supposed to pay 150 dinars. Also, for oral impeachment or dismissal of power of attorney, and for judicial notice of impeachment, that is the case where, for example, a power of attorney cancels the power of attorney in the absence of the one who gave him the power of attorney, then the court is obliged to notify him of such a letter, 300 dinars will have to be paid. For one verdict, which the judge will write on 20 and more pages, 400 dinars will be paid. Now you see how much there is in all of this, in measuring the amount of tax, how much logic there is. It would be good if this poor woman who works in a court of law, besides having 3,000 judges and prosecutors, had a lot of professional associates, assistants and writers, and at least this kind of money, given that that's what writers do for the salary of those notaries. This is how we're going to have a bookkeeper with a salary of 150 marks and a judge with a salary of 1,000 marks. I have no doubt that this salary will be able to be paid to the judges, since it counts, on an inflow of funds of nearly 400 million a month, three thousand judges times 1,000 marks, that's 300 thousand marks, and there's still hundreds left for material expenses, and in the budget we had those funds at the Justice Ministry for material costs and other needs of the courts. Therefore, judges and prosecutors will have these salaries, they are 3,000 and the other 17,000 are not at all interested in our government.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18680	The word has a minister of justice and local self-government, Mr Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18681	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, esteemed observers, I would like to deny that the other judicial employees will not have an increase in salaries. We, of course, want to raise the level of free and independent judiciary and to affirm, raise the salaries of judicial holders and thus raise the degree of their responsibilities. It's something that's perfectly appropriate, which is a practice in all countries in the environment, and it's no invention by the local government or the local government. On the other hand, I would like to say that the highest percentage of employees' salaries in any social activity are just employed in the judiciary and in various administrative, technical and other affairs. So, in any case, take care of the social status of these people who are also doing a hard and responsible job. As far as the proposed amendment is concerned, I think he's rational. On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I accept the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18682	I thank Mr. Secretary. The government has, therefore, accepted this amendment to Article 33, but since the committees have not accepted it, I am putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the Members of Parliament to plead with the vote. For 141, against 12, with ten abstentions, 30 of the 193 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic to article 34. The Government, the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here's a word from the People's MP Milorad Mircic, the applicant for the amendment to Article 34.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18683	General objections to this law, i.e. this tariff system proposed by the Government and brought forth and within the DOS coalition, one of the parties or groups of MPs, so that it is clear evidence that this Law and this proposal are missing something. It may be lacking for those who have objections within the ruling coalition, because this is the first time so far that the ruling coalition has treated its government this way. What's the second remark, the principle remark of the SRS, is that there's no way to recognize the methodology by which the increase is calculated. It would be good if, in this case, the Government, or the RES, gave about a methodology that would contain a percentage of the representation of individual cases, or a number of how many individual cases are represented in order to base it on a possible increase in taxi prices. What the proposal is on Article 34 is that heading 32 is concerned with the examination of the final cases and reports and data required from the final cases. The government has proposed to increase this five times, and we Serbian radicals, and in this proposal through the amendments we seek to make it within the framework of reality. What is the reality of the SRS will be decided by the majority in this Assembly. We don't think this has any real coverage and percentage and numerically I think this is very little represented, and in order to build on these fees some real possibility of increasing personal incomes, or wages, for all those who work in court. I think it would be purely psychologically good if, and also from a professional relationship, because we know who is most used in such cases, or who has needs in court, it would be purely professional to keep this correctness to fellow lawyers and to all those who are tied up, but what do we do, that's the government's proposal. The government and most in this congregation have some other reality in mind, and we still stand in the view that it should be more moderate.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18684	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 37, against 122 abstentions, there was no 32 vote, out of 191 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 35th Amendment was submitted by MP Lazar Marjanski. The Government, the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18685	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 35 and to heading 33. (Station 1) The law, which reads: "For copying court acts, as well as for copying acts from a collection of documents, which the court carried out at the request of the party, 5 new dinars are paid on the page of the original text." Your proposal is 20 dinars per page of the original text, and I suggest for the word "5 new" to be replaced by "10". I personally believe, and since I am not in this profession, that the number "10" should be halved and that it is more meaningful and cheaper for those of us who are suing or who we prescribe here, and I think at this point, Mr. Minister, or Dr. Batic, is the most measured to say it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18686	Are any of the other authorized participants there? Yeah. ) Minister, Mr Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18687	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I also think that this proposal has elements of rationality and, on behalf of the Government, I accept it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18688	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendments to the 35th vote, which was accepted on behalf of the Government by the Minister, and they are not committees, so I am asking the Members of Parliament to make a statement. For 126, against nine, with nine abstentions, the vote was not 43, out of 187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment most of the votes. The 36th Amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Mucic. The Government, the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18689	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SPS Parliament Club, I have submitted an amendment to Article 36, and I will briefly explain it, since I am convinced and deeply convinced that Mr. Minister Batic will accept it. I predicted in Article 36 that instead of the proposal sent by the Government, taxes would increase by five times, or from 20 to 100 dinars, and I suggested that the fees increase to 50 dinars compared to those they were. These are fees paid on the largest number of services used by citizens, i.e. those fees paid for extracting popular possessions, i.e. A lists. The majority of Serbian citizens are using a copy of the land book or other public books on immovableities to exercise their rights, which means that the increase in this fee would directly endanger the poorest layers of citizens in the exercise of their rights, and citizens have shown their opinion on these rights in the Latkovic elections in Ljig, where the Socialist Party of Serbia won 82 votes, while DOS had only 33 and I think that regardless of these measures taken by the government, the retention of the ratio in the payment of taxis, and also the acceptance of Article 15, where it is also for over-recorded, manuscripts and other taxes reduced from 100 dinars to 50 dinars, that if this principle is maintained, the relative increase of taxis, that the Government will accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18690	The word is made by Minister Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18691	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have to admit that I do not understand any logical link between the additional elections in the League and the increase of the ownership fees, but on behalf of the Government, I accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18692	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 120, against 9, abstentioned 10, the vote was not 43, a total of 182 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. National MP Stevan Kesejic submitted to the 36th amendment. The Government, the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Stevan Kesejic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18693	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, given that the minister has accepted this amendment, I would only point out what could otherwise be heard here during the debate, and it is about the funds that are collected by the fees of those citizens who use their rights in courts. In this regard, it was said that this wanted to achieve an independent economic judiciary, but at the same time, the urgency and efficiency of the court's work. However, I have to say that there are other cases in practice, and because of that case, I just want to say a few things. Citizens did not deserve individual judges and prosecutors, public prosecutors, public prosecutors' deputies to receive funds from citizens who spend their taxes and taxes on the funds, and those in courts act like cabads. It is, in fact, that some prosecutors simply show their political belongings and that in one court procedure, although he was not the subject of the MP, he simply told the defence attorney that he would appeal to the senior authorities because Miskov's deputy prosecutor, Miskov Vojislav, told his remarks- he complained to the MP. Of course, he also said the name of the MP and thus discriminated against certain political groups. Such are not the place in the prosecution, nor in the judiciary, and for these reasons I wanted to do with this amendment, which concerns a copy of land and other public books, I say that all the funds that are collected from citizens, of all citizens, regardless of whether members of certain political groups, nationalities and religions are fully equal in front of courts and that that is how those who receive funds from the budget, and who are singled out by Serbian citizens should behave.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18694	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 32, against 108, the abstentioned were not voted 42, a total of 182 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 37th Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Vukic. The Government, the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 31, against 102 abstentions, 49, a total of 182 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Zlatan Jovanovic submitted to the 38th amendment. The Government, the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is given by MP Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18695	Ladies and gentlemen, it's nice that the government wants our judges to have a salary of 1,000 marks, to become materially independent, but our government has to think about other budget users, education, health care and other users who are on the verge of existence. The amendment I filed in front of the Serbian Radical Party to Article 38 refers to heading 37. The bill of law, in fact, of an existing law. According to the proposal we are considering today for the assembly before the court of land book contracts and intubulation matters is paid according to the value: - up to 5,000 dinars the government's proposal is to pay a 300 dinar tax, and my amendment is proposed to be 150 dinars; - over 5,000 to 20,000 dinars, the government's proposal is to pay 300 dinars with an increase of 1% of the value of the contract, and my amendment says that 150 dinars are paid at an increase of 1% of the value; - for a value of over 20,000 dinars, the government's proposal is to pay 500 dinars of taxes with an increase of 0.5% and a maximum of up to 2,000 dinars. My proposal is to pay 250 dinars with an increase of 0.5% and a maximum of 500 dinars. In point 2, if the value of the contract is invaluable, the government's proposal is that the tax is 300 dinars, and the proposal that I made with this amendment is to make it 200 dinars. We have simply handled a reasonable and rational explanation, that the increase can and should go up to 100 per cent compared to the existing values, so I believe that the government should also accept this amendment, since Minister Batic has changed his mind abruptly and has become very in the mood to accept the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18696	I thank the People's MP. Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 32, against 98, a abstentioned one, did not vote 46, a total of 177 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 39th amendment. The Government, the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here's a word for Natasa Jovanovic's MP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18697	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are already at the end of the debate on the amendment of the Law on Court Taxes and heading 38, which has three points, treats something that are common and some that are rare in Serbia's courts today. What I have proposed with my amendment on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group, is our principled position at the beginning, that the proposed fees by the resolute minister and the government of the Republic of Serbia be reduced to an appropriate measure, in the opinion of Serbian radicals, which will not make the impoverished citizens' budget even more empty anyway. This is about cases which are common, especially in the case of the issuing of certificates of jurisdiction or enforcement of the judgment of the chosen court. The promoter put it to be 500 dinars, and we asked our amendment to cut it to 400 dinars. I suppose you all know that every verdict in the court of law must have a clause of law and that is why we consider this amount more appropriate. Also, when we asked the party to appoint a judge or president of the elected court to pay 200 instead of the proposed 300 and then to make a proposal to exclude the judge of the selected court, instead of 300, 200 dinars, we suggested it for a reason because these cases are also very common. When the party asks to change the judge of the competent court, and in practice it is most often in situations where the party has an open suspicion, and lawyers know very well, something which is unfortunately and how present with us in the judiciary, that, for example, they are in a close relationship between judges and lawyers, so the party is there as a damaged party. Simply, the judge is obstructing, because it is not rare for us to also conduct desert debates for 15 or 20 years, and that simply many judges are unable or unwilling, for their known reasons, to solve such cases. These are mainly citizens' complaints to us MPs, if they come to us for help in such situations, and they are very often objecting mainly to the fact that judges are biased, or that they are expressing open suspicion in their way of handling the case. That is why we believe that this is not something you should only consider as a proposal for a true opposition political party, the Serbian Radical Party, which does not want at all, at all costs, only to go on a change of members to change it, but rather a reasonable, extremely reasonable proposal, as they have all been. We feel that it is necessary to accept this and especially because every verdict must be governed by a clause of lawfulness of a verdict.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18698	I thank the People's MP. Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 36, against 98, the abstentions were not voted 49, a total of 183 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 40th amendment. The Government, the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here's a word from MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18699	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, I have submitted this amendment and carried out such a correction that I have proposed to reduce the tax on warnings given to citizens unless they have paid a certain tax to the court in time. At the same time, I would like to point out one fact, how much was the proposal's wish to achieve a certain effect and a certain objective, which is of great importance to the judiciary. However, I see one problem here, and that is - so much is manifested in practice, which is what the tax should have been percentageed to the Ministry of Justice, which is resolute, and that it has and corresponds, directs funds for the personal incomes of judges but at the same time, as the minister said yesterday, 16,000 employees, and I see that the desire to improve the material position in the front row of judges, and should, but also the other employees in the judiciary, as announced by the minister. The main problem, however, will be that the minister will have to keep insisting on those other 50% of the funds, whirring and asking the finance minister. I had a chance to make sure there were problems here, in the Republic Ministry. It was necessary to direct the ministry 100 per cent of the tax, that the tax goes exclusively to improve the material position of judges and all court employees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18700	The word has a minister, Mr Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18701	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, since this is a constructive proposal, or amendment, which does not disturb the meaning of the proposed law on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia at all, I accept the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18702	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to Article 40, which was accepted by the Minister on behalf of the Government, but the committees did not. I ask the Members of Parliament to plead with the vote. For 105, against 10, abstentioned 10, 56, a total of 181 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment most of the votes. Members of the 40th Amendment, with correction, were jointly submitted by MPs Petar Cvetkovic and Djordje Mamula. The Government, the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For vote 50, against 81, a abstentioned one, did not vote 51, out of 183 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Ljubomir Kragovic submitted to the 41st amendment. The Government, the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There is a word from MP Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18703	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 41 which reads: Article 41 is amended and reads "in heading 40 (1) the words "100 new" are replaced by "200". I believe that the proposed amounts for court fees are too large and should be significantly reduced. That is why I propose that this amendment be adopted. The tariff number 40 refers to a decision rejecting or rejecting the request for the exemption of the judge, the judges of the jury, the president of the court, the public prosecutor and other officials, and the tax in the case of what I have stated in the amendment, 200 dinars, and the government has applied for 300 dinars. So, according to the same principle that I handled when I submitted the amendment to Article 20, and now I submit to Article 41 by analysing the economic power and strength of our citizens. I think it's enough to increase court fees by a hundred percent. Everything that is more than a hundred percent makes it difficult to satisfy justice in the right sense of the word. I think there are arguments to accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18704	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 41, against 111 abstentions, there was no 33, a total of 185 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic. The Government, the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is from Mrs Gordana Pop-Lazic, authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18705	Article 42 refers to heading 41, which determines the amount of the application fee requiring the suspension of the execution of a criminal sanction, or the decision of the court on that application. The government proposes 300 dinars for the application, and 500 dinars for the court's decision. In view of the fact that the postponement of the sentence, the execution of criminal sanctions, is often required for health reasons, and it is not always just serious crimes, and even serious crimes, are the reasons for determining whether the delay will be accepted or not, but very often we have criminal acts that do not pose a major social danger, such as endangering traffic safety, or, say, one theft, ordinary forest theft, where someone steals half a metre of wood and gets some prison sentence, and his children are sick, is asking him to delay the execution of criminal sanctions. He has to pay 800 dinars for it. That's why we've submitted this amendment, and we're asking for an application, instead of 100 dinars so far, the tax is 200 dinars, and for the court's decision, instead of the current 200 dinars, that's 400 dinars.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18706	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? The word has a minister, Mr Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18707	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Government cannot accept the proposed amendment, for the simple reason that it is a common practice of misappropriation of the criminal sanctions institute, and yet, the whole mechanism of the commission that does so must come into effect. It's a huge engagement and we're doing the whole procedure. I think the proposal the government made is absolutely appropriate, and even objectively, he's modest. I've done it for 17 years and I've had a lot of experience in these things, so I think the tax is quite appropriate.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18708	I thank Mr. Secretary. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. Please state by voting. For vote 42, against 112, the abstentions were not voted 34, out of a total of 188 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 42nd amendment, with a correction, was brought together by MPs Petar Cvetkovic and Gjorge Mamula. The Government, the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There's a word from MP Petar Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18709	The amendment to Article 42 shall consist of two parts. The basic part, on the Legislative Committee, we agreed last night, is that two members have the same number - 42. This will be regulated legally, and that first part of the amendment regarding taxis, we accept the government's representative's argument, and therefore we give up this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18710	I find that MP Petar Cvetkovic has withdrawn the amendment to Article 42. Member of the 42nd to the entry into force of the law, the amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Petar Cvetkovic and Gjorge Mamula. Are you reporting for this amendment? The word is from Mr Vladan Batic, the minister of justice and local self-government.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18711	Well, since it's obviously a printing error here -- twice the article 42 has been repeated through the amendment, but it can be corrected, so we accept that amendment. It's more of a editorial thing than a legal thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18712	The amendment reads that Article 42 becomes Article 43. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. The government has accepted the amendment. Mr. Minister, did I understand, did you accept, did the government accept this amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18713	Twice, article 42 has been repeated. It's more of a editorial thing. The government accepts that amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18714	Since the Legislative Committee has adopted a legal-technical order, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Since we have completed a review of the Bill's proposal in particular and a decision on amendments, does the Proposer want a word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the search of the bill, in particular. I put the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on judicial fees in full. Please state by voting. I conclude the vote and declare: for 130, against 55, the abstentions did not vote 9, out of 194 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Court Taxes, in general. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: - PROPOSAL OF THE BUDGETS SYSTEM (principal debate) You have adopted the bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Srdjan Petrovic, Dragan Lazić and Dusan Ilic, Bozidar Vučurović, Veroljub Arsic, Dragan Čolić, Goran Cvetanović, Dragoljub Stamenković, Branislav Blažić, Vitomir Plužarić, Gordana Pop-Lazić, Lazar Marjanski, Stevan Kesejić, Miroljum Veljković, Aleksandar Vučić, Bozidar Vujic, Srboljub Živanovic, Slobodan Janić, Zlatan Jovanovic, Natasa Jovanovic, Petar Jojić, Ljubomir Kragović, Tomislav Nikolic, Milorad Mirčić, Rade Bajić and Hranislav Perić, Stevan Ž. Gudururuć, Ljubomir Muć, Slobodan Tomović, Nebojša Jović, Golub Rajić, Golub Rajić, Vladimir Mirić, Vladimir Mirić and Milić. The amendments, writtenly, were withdrawn by the MPs: Rade Bajić and Hranislav Peric as members of 58th and MPs Srdjan Petrovic, Dragan Lazic and Dusan Ilic as members of 12. It's a bill of law. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee, as well as the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the amendments submitted. At the meeting of the Finance Committee, the opinion was set aside by MP Ljubomir Mucic. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to submit lists of registered speakers to this agenda point. I'm opening a principled search. Does the proposalor's representative, finance minister, Mr Bozidar Djelic want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18715	Madam President, the Honorable Vice President, the Honorable People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to show you these two things: in my left hand is the 2000 budget, he has ten pages and 30 members; so it doesn't turn out that I'm talking about how this or that authority is now in my left hand the budget you voted on a few weeks ago, that's the 2002 budget. There's a careful explanation, but it's completely on page 36 and in about 20 members. In my right hand is the budget of the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians for 1927/28. A year. It was a parliamentary monarchy. If you open this reading on either side, you see this former state of ours, because we have some continuity, don't you, and you see, for example, projected resources for staff in various banks, you see by each ministry what exactly is foreseen, up to the last match. I can give you a few examples: the University of Belgrade -- there were 100,000 dinars for office materials -- heating for all buildings of the University, with clinics, university home and university library -- a million dinars; lighting and water of 600,000 dinars. It was the same thing on the contracts. Costs of service in border joint stations, according to contracts, etc. Put your hands on your heart, making a budget like this has never been easy. In many years, the government had to work for 12 years, because it was hard to vote this budget, and if I took the budget of some other countries in our environment... (A voice from the O.R.: Who was the finance minister then? )......................................................................................................... I don't know who the finance minister was back then, it wasn't signed. In any case, I can say that budgetary debate and budget management are at a much more envious level in other countries and were at an enviable level before World War II and in our country. Therefore, it is an extraordinary honor for me today to have this reading - the law on the budget system, which is in many ways technical law, to think that it may be one of the most important, if not most important, of those you have been offered since you've been sitting in the last 13 - 14 months. Why am I giving this grade? Because I think this law is one of the most important things that this home will bring, if you vote for it. This law is of a systemic nature and I am confident that it will improve the spirit of parliamentaryism and significantly strengthen the control of legislation over executive authority. The law very precisely regulates the planning, preparation and adoption of the budget of the Republic of Serbia, the planning, preparation and adoption of the budget of autonomous provinces, municipalities, cities and cities of Belgrade, the implementation of the budget, the issuing of state guarantees, the takeover of guarantees. As you saw, it was two days ago, for the first time in years, the subject of debate. This law is even better regulated. Debt management, budget accounting that must be specific, can no longer be committed to what the accounting of private enterprises are, because the goal of the state is not to make a profit. Budget accounting must be there to ensure better control, first of all. All of this will be possible thanks to one newly introduced institution of the vault of the Republic, or vault of lower levels of government. It also introduces internal control and audits, not only at the level of the Republic, but also at lower levels of government. They were established not only for direct and indirect budget users, but also for public enterprises and for all those companies where these public enterprises have a majority. I can say that this law at this very moment, with this Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, cannot go as far as it should go. This law will allow this home for the first time to have an accurate insight into what is going on in the domain of compulsory social security. What does that mean? It means that both the PIO Fund, and the Republic Health Insurance Institute, and other pension funds, for farmers, for independents, and also for the Labour Market Office, this law will finally give this home insight. For now, you will not vote because the Constitution is not possible, but you will give consent to the financial plans, and that is also very important. Today, in these budgets, the budgets of these mandatory social security funds have more money than in the Republic of Serbia's budget. Thus, this law will allow this home to have a full picture and to declare itself on all aspects of our country's public finances. In addition, this law will establish very firm rules of play. It's a very important thing because if we look at what the state of public finances was like today, and I wouldn't want to look back at that year again in that area, I think the 2000 budget inspection report, which was added to the final budget account for 2000, which, as far as I know, will be one of the points at the next meeting of this house, will be an opportunity to talk about it again. We inherited one non-existent budget inspection that had only four men for the entire territory of Serbia. Well, for that budgetary inspection, in the 2002 budget, we were forced to hire people from the PDO, people from the Republic Public Revenue Administration, all former SDKs, to do the necessary work. This is just to remind me of what has already been done to introduce fiscal discipline and strengthen public finances over the past 13 months. However, this law, if you vote it, will give the right framework for introducing order in public finances. It introduces new internal control systems in ministries and establishes this real budgetary inspection and revision as a mechanism through which the Ministry of Finance and Economy, on behalf of the Government, as well as in all modern countries, will be able to exercise control over those who have already carried out internal control, control of the application of the law in the area of material and finance business of beneficiaries of budgetary and public enterprises, and what is important. We have seen this in many public enterprises, where the review of the way of work and the more efficient implementation of the law has taken place, which means that this internal budget inspection and audit should not only be limited to the finding of some illegal actions or to the accidental spending of money, but also to be converted into an advisory body, in order to remove these phenomena in the longer term and to correct the way it is done in public finances. Of course, this picture won't be complete; as you know, we'll be working in this house by June of the month, because there's a bill to be drawn up on a supreme accounting court. It's going to be so-called. an external audit that will suit you, not the Government, and that will do a similar job, but in a different way than this internal audit which is also very important. The internal audit will serve the executive authority to check whether everything goes according to law and to give advice, and an external review, which the other law will regulate and create that top accounting court by 1 January 2003, will be the necessary complementary addition that will further strengthen the control, independent control of public finances by parliament. In seducing firm rules of the game, however, this law goes significantly further. It also introduces new institutions into our budget system, which will ensure a far more efficient management of public funds, as well as guarantee a stable implementation of fiscal policy. Key institutions - and I can say that unfortunately today Serbia is the only country in Europe that does not have that institution, which is the vault of the Republic of Serbia and thus the vault of the autonomous province and local self-government. This over-needed institution will be introduced to these three levels and will perform different functions. They are in line with all the solutions that have proved to be celery, and in some cases before World War II, and certainly also in the practice of other countries in our environment and in developed countries. I'd just like to point out here that this is going to introduce the so-called. the consolidated account of the vault, to which all budget users will have to bear their money, and not only the money coming from the budget but also all their other revenues. Thus, the budget does not want to put "whispers" on these original revenues, but this will finally record everything that these institutions are receiving. So what we saw in the budget inspection, and that's a lot of abuse with those own incomes that haven't even been recorded at all, will stop. Under this we will have a much stronger and more efficient management of everything the Republic has. What are the key functions of the vault? I note again, this does not introduce one centralisation on a small door after the vote on the Law on Local Self-Government or on an omnibus law on the return of some powers to the AP Vojvodina. No, I don't. The vault must be introduced not only at the level of the Republic, but also at the level of the province, at the level of local self-government, cities and the city of Belgrade. I hope that in a short time it will be done on a federal level, if it survives. We have five key functions in the vault. The first function of the vault is financial planning. This implies that all inflows on the vault account and all requirements for the execution of expenditure will be designed and monitored, so as not to result in any unforeseen, short-term deficits. Today, a heart-to-heart, even today, to this day, the way in which the budget is implemented is more like day-to-day restriction of desire and demands of various budget users, and I know that many of you have very responsible functions at the local level, and I know that's how it is at that level. Unfortunately, public finances have not recovered to such an extent that we can predict everything so that when the budget is adopted, budget users are safe every month, as in developed and regulated countries. I hope that Serbia will be at that level. They'll know every week that orders can be executed and in what rhythm. That's what we're supposed to be pursuing, but of course we're going to have to wait another few months and a few years to get to that situation. However, the introduction of the vault will greatly improve that function and we will be prepared to do so much better. The second function is cash management. Today, the implementation of the budget is often reduced, at all levels, to transferring some of the amount of money to some of the accounts managed by some other people and then optimizing that money in a particular way. It happens too often that at times when money is needed over in one place, it lies unused elsewhere. It's not in most cases because someone's being abused, it's because in unstable situations people want to "supervise". This gives a very unfavourable picture globally and at any moment does not lead to the optimal cash management situation the Republic has. The Republic in that area must be seen for the most efficient companies in our country and abroad. If cash is managed in an extremely strict way, at any moment it must be known how much money there is in the global, in order to pass that money on to those who need it most at that moment, but also if there is too much to place it in the most favourable ways. Thus, the money that comes from taxpayers will be optimally used, and that is not the case today. With that function, it'll be a case tomorrow. In addition, in that function already this year, if we feel the need, and I would say a moment for that, it will begin with the issue of bonds, government bonds of vaults. It will not be possible at a lower level than the Republic, and at the level of the Republic it will finally become a normal civilizational way to cover a short-term deficit of up to 12 months. We're not going to start with any long-term bonds at first, of course. This will in the foreseeable future, and I hope in the next 18 to 24 months it will be what is lacking in our capital market today. It is the backbone of the capital and bond markets, where all government bond deadlines show what is the least risky paper, again in the normal state, as it is now becoming Serbia -- under which companies and other legal entities will be able to be valued. The third function of the vault is cost control. It is, first of all, a control that is timely and it is a commitment by budget users. What's going on today? I know it happens at the level of the Republic, but it's the same at the local level. We have a system where different levels and various indirect budget users take on commitments, some often, some sometimes, some never, but in a global way, they often take on commitments that are budgetary, and that money is not provided or provided in that dynamic. Thus, the entire system is at great risk and commitments are taken by the state, and at no time anyone who manages the whole is not sure that it will be possible to do so at a given time. Where do the huge interest paid by our country at all levels? Of all those with whom it must be in debt; banks that at that time have profits just because the state does not effectively manage its assets. Therefore, spending control, which must be strict, is a control where budget users cannot decide when the order will be executed, although they will have budgets, quotas and insight into what is happening, but the vault needs to know when the reduction is coming. This must be predicted, that a second order can be executed at a given time, because no other mechanism must be allowed to enter again into this discipline that we have today. There'll be a lot of people at all levels in the system who'll complain. Some who managed and perhaps thought they had some part of the government that managed part of the cash will think they were affected by this. This is not true if it is taken as a common goal to manage as effectively as possible what the state has, whether at the level of the Republic, local self-government or the provinces or cities. The fourth function is debt management. Today we are in a situation where we have to manually record how many states on all levels he owes to, to whom, under what conditions, by which interest, when things come. We inherited in that domain chaos, not to mention what we were talking about when we talked about the E.P.S. loan guarantee law, and we inherited the situation when a piece of paper was given a guarantee, and no one knew about it, at least he didn't know this home. All of this has to be recorded neatly and must be managed. Debt is not an inert mass, debt will more and more be one living mass with which professionals in vaults will manage at all levels, so at any moment reduce costs for their level, costs of that debt and try to find an optimal solution, to reduce interest, pay-out deadlines and find sources of funding. Lastly, the fifth function of the vault is budget accounting and reporting. I have already noted that budget accounting cannot be the same as private accounting, simply the aim of these legal entities is not the same at all. At this point, we've already talked about this budget for 2002, we've already left without legal obligation, so on. The GFS methodology, which all the countries in the world have, but that's what we wanted to do to have series that will be comparable. This law will make it mandatory and therefore we will be quite comparable to other countries. And when we talk about deficits or spending on health, etc., we'll be able to compare ourselves much easier and see if we spend more or less, in what extent and how, for key functions in our country. So, to sum up as far as the vault is concerned: the vault is the core of the budget system because the implementation of the budget through it will be far more efficient, fairer and will greatly reduce potential fiscal risks in our country. One more thing, thanks to that, we'll erase another place where we're last in Europe, where we're the only country that doesn't have one institution that everyone else has. I know some amendments, unfortunately I'd say, are making a mockery of some provisions about the very calendar of budgeting. It seems to me, and we have noted this when voting this year's budget, which was adopted by emergency procedure, that it is not right to adopt the budget by emergency procedure, unless there are extremely serious circumstances why it has to be done that way. And that's why this time, there's a very pedantic one budget procedure, and I want to remind you of a few dates. First, the procedure under this law, if and when you adopt it, begins on 30 April. So, already on April 30th, there's an annual point to prepare the next budget. Already on May 15th, the government must adopt a budget memorandum containing all data on macroeconomic and fiscal policy, not only for the financial year, but for the next two fiscal years. Thus, this law and this procedure will allow us to look at some projects for two, three, and more years, so that when we decide on projects we have a whole picture, you can track it, and that the government has to follow something in general, that it doesn't happen like, unfortunately, so often in the history of our public finances, and not just in the last 10 years, that it goes into some kind of project, but after that, it disappears from the budget and that simply those works disappear. Under this law and in this way, of course, Parliament can do anything; it can decide not to vote in the budget for a year after that for one project to be continued. But this way we'll all have a reminder and we'll all know that there are a dozen projects that have started, so we'll ask you a question in front of you and in front of us whether we should place new projects or some of those that have already been placed finish. By August 1st, beneficiaries of budget and compulsory social security organisations must deliver their proposals to the finance and economy ministry. And it will finally be in our country as in all developed countries, and it's called a hot budget summer. Then when these proposals come from various budget users, there is this first synthesis and arbitration, while our citizens, hopefully in a growing number, are resting, going to sea and on vacation, budget users are in some friendly kid and trying to fight for the best position in the budget for next year. And that is a good thing because in this case we will be able to prepare the draft budget of the Republic already on 15 October, and the government is obliged by 1 November of the current year to adopt the draft budget and send it to you for adoption, so that in no case will this House have less than six weeks to analyse it through committees, through discussion, much more in detail. As I have announced, at the moment of budget rebalance due to the omnibus law, which will come to the agenda, we will have much more detailed insight into what is being spent, and perhaps at the level of what you have seen, but we will see. In any case, up to the fourth or fifth decimal of the GFS methodology. So, by the way, I think this law will improve Parliament's role in what may be most important, which is the approval of funds from the state register for the next year, in some perspective and for three years, will be foreseen, and that was the question that several MPs rightly asked, the plans of borrowing and giving guarantees. Parliament can know in advance what guarantees these are and what duties the state guarantee is proposing, so you can discuss it. Including, I just want to say, honourable Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, by adopting this law, I think you'll do a lot for the country, but it seems a lot for Parliament. I think the sphere of public finances has changed in many ways, in the urgency of payouts, in transparency, in honesty. However, this law will in fact make a decisive improvement. When you adopt it, with a few of these supplements I've been talking about, we'll be able to say that we've come into line with some civilized countries. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18716	I thank Mr. Secretary. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ) Does the People's MP Ljubomir Mucic, who voted out his opinion at the session of the Finance Committee? Here you are, MP Ljubomir Mucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18717	Madam President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, I have issued an opinion at the session of the Committee on Budgets and Finance, and I can explain a few things why I have excluded my opinion, and the main motive is to limit the time for discussion, given that this restrictive Rules of Procedure does not allow all MPs to participate and consider this material. I would really like to say that we got one good material, one good reading, as Mr. Minister said, and that what he said, from his mouth to his ears, but I don't think so, given that this year's budget was passed by an emergency procedure at the December session, and I have to remind the minister, if he forgot, that no law on the participation of municipalities in financing has been passed, so that municipalities need their budgets, those who are determined by temporary funding, that they bring it to the end of March, and that law should indeed be passed so that the municipalities can set their limits and their own funding frameworks. The budget system law was promised when the 2001 budget was adopted and we got it in December and here, we are now starting to consider it. I can really say that one unique way to settle this area of public finances, something similar to what it was through the Law on public incomes and public expenditures that was even more extensive than this law, as well as this budget that was in the Kingdom more transparent than ours. I think that this law is also due to those assessments that the minister said at the previous session, i.e. the previous session, with his inspired performance. When you have a credit arrangement ahead of you, I quote, if I can, ministers, "at 11 and 8 months from the beginning of 3 years and 2 months", these are arrangements that as a state itself would not be able to win. It's just that our foreign financial situation hasn't been solved to the extent that we can either issue bonds or at least get loans on such a long time. I think these assessments, as well as the evaluations by experts from international financial organisations, have contributed that this law must be passed quickly and considered. Otherwise, I, who did these finances, too, have long been expecting this law, but it reminds me of certain legal regulations of the 1980s, I just don't know by whose model, whether the French model of public finances and regulation, or whether it's a European Union model, and that's why I expected the minister at least to say this, and I have to say that in the '80s, we had a similar calendar, a procedure for preparing for the adoption of the budget, by having various resolutions, had five-year, or three-year economic development plans. Economic and fiscal development policy has been established by the end of August, so we have conducted a public debate just as we are now predicting and indeed, if it turns out that there is no need for this opportunity to regulate something like this. I think that indeed through the foundations of the budget, which were then valid, is now a memorandum on the budget and the minister already said in August when we all go on vacations, and we MPs, the ministry is going on the offensive to determine the draft budget decision. The opinion of our Socialists is that this bill on the budget system won't come to life quickly, given a few things. First of all, it seems to me that the Ministry and the Minister himself are obliged, the Minister of Finance has the highest obligation under this law, that within 12 months of the date of entry into force of this law, he adopts accompanying regulations and appropriate acts, and the authorities of the local government, or the bodies of finance in local self-government for 24 months, so I think he should make a commitment in some way to regulate it by moving into the 2003 budget in August of the month. By that deadline, provisions from 18 to 91 of the Public Revenue Act will apply. I think it's a good thing that budget accounting is regulated in one way at this point. Indeed, there has been a lot of wandering around budget accounting in the previous period, as well as budget users themselves, as well as accounting of budgets and budget funds themselves. I think that methodology should go to the government or the minister very quickly to get this information.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18718	Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word is by MP Miroljub Veljkovic, who will be authorised (SRS representative) on this agenda point. Deliver me for tomorrow's clearance.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18719	At first, I would like to thank Mr. Minister for reminding this parliament and the Serbian public about the historical fact that between the two world wars in this country, Serbian radicals were in power all the time, and what you held in your right hand, that transparent budget, and that is the budget that the ministers were bringing before the Serbian Radical Party, and so if there is justice and if God were already of the next election. Why are you so nervous, gentlemen? Mr Minister, there is absolutely no need to regulate the budget system in a single and comprehensive manner, namely to clearly define the planning process, as you said the adoption and control of the budget of the Republic and local self-government. So this is the law that the state needs, and there's absolutely no dispute there. In my discussion, I will not point to an extremely bad solution in this law. This will be done by my colleagues from the SRS parliamentary group, both in the discussion in principle and when they explain their amendments. I will talk about one fundamentally wrong concept implemented by this state administration when it comes to reforming the overall financial sector in the country. Due to the structural discrepancy in the fiscal sphere, the major fiscal deficit, excessive public spending and the huge internal debt and the lack of absolutely no financial market, all of us in this room who are a little on this issue and we know this problem clearly must be approached by the country's fundamental reform of the financial sector. But for such a thing, there must be a concept. So there must be a certain strategy. You can't do that from the hills of the valley, mixed up how this government does it, and I'll explain it closer. The concept should primarily serve us to make some strategic decisions in the direction of financial reform. I hope that Mr. Minister will agree with my claim that several areas should be covered under the reform of the financial sector, notably fiscal reform, then central bank reform, public debt formation and must be recognised because of the great negative legacy of the past, restructuring of the banking sector and ultimately the development of financial markets. I hope we agree here, Mr. Minister, and that's the alphabet of the profession, so it has to be done in the profession and believe me, there are no dilemmas about it. But what does this state administration do? This state administration of fiscal reform is the fact that there are increased rates of sales tax and that new burdens are imposed on both the economy and the citizens all the time. A gray economy zone, praised by this state administration that it's cut up, etc., believe me, it's not even touched. So where the huge fiscal reserves are hidden, they're not even touched. Then, if your central bank reforms are that Mladjan Dinkic is advertised by billboards or television, and that's the only thing we've seen from the reforms in the monetary sphere, if you consider restructuring banking systems as a liquidation of Serbian banking, then that's not it. What about public debt? Did the state answer what was wrong with the public debt and what was the public debt? What about the financial markets? She played this bond of old foreign exchange savings, so on the first day, you forced those from the Vojvodjanska Banka, so as to come and buy 99.9% and pay. Where are those financial markets? There's no movement there. I think it's quite obvious in the functioning of this government that there is no concept or strategy in this field. Moves and attempts at reform in the financial sector are amateur and versed, and that is what worries. That's how it works with this law. This law, which I do not dispute the state must adopt, must be part of a sound state policy within the framework of the country's overall reform of the financial sector. It occurred to this government, for example, that by establishing a vault and a single consolidated account, an unprecedented centralisation in the financial sphere has been carried out. That's not what Joseph Broz Tito dared to do either. You say there that's not so, that users will have sub-accounts, etc. Please, all the giro accounts of the users are abolished, both direct users, and here I mean the ministries, and so on those indirect, let's say, health care, and take health care as an example. So, they're all abolished, there's a consolidated coming, so the minister promises us he'll get some sub-accounts. It's an unprecedented centralization of all financial flows and resources under one paw. You know whose. It's not under Djelic's safety. Because the solutions in the law are extremely bad, because the law is not part of it, I repeat -- it is not part of a comprehensive concept and financial sector reform strategy, the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group will not support the law. Also, Mr. Minister, your discussion has stimulated me to ask you a question. We do not need to teach you, in order to carry out a successful reform of the financial sector, that reform must be supported by some other reforms, primarily by its own transformation, means liberalisation of the economy, the real liberalisation of the economy, the full economic stability must be achieved, a legal system that promotes the modern market economy, and ultimately, which is extremely important, I note - extremely important, all of this must be followed by a clear social programme. For the whole transition process, not only in the economic sector, but in general for the whole transition process, it has to be such a clear social programme. All over Serbia, you've gone, thousands of workers, and then it's -- imagine, the social program -- that someone take out and give you three or five thousand marks and go home. It's the government's social program. The fact is that part of the law has been passed here for these years and more, but what are those solutions -- they already show and give results. I think they're extremely bad. In the end, Mr. Djelic, I am appalled by one fact in your biography. I know that you participated in carrying out economic transitions in several Eastern European countries, and it was expected that you should know that financial sector reform is the most complex phase of transition. Isn't that right, Mr. Minister? This is the most sensitive and complex thing, and what is important is that this reform always comes at the end of that total transition. As a rule, it is also a positive experience in these Eastern European countries. What this law on the budgetary system is supposed to mean now, without this and this fundamental and thoughtful reform of the entire sector and with the accompanying reforms. Absolutely nothing, except what I said -- one unseen centralization. There's a lot more serious work to be done before that. So, huge professional and organisational logistics needs to be provided, and only then go into this serious business. What this government is doing, I'm sorry, but it's pure amateurism. For all these reasons, the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group will not support the law in principle. With your amendments... [[Sagar.]] You saw what the minister held in his right hand, it's the Serbian Radical Party programme... [[Sagar.]] our parliamentary group will try to fix, note - this is extremely bad, in a professional sense, the proposed solution and depending on the final wording of this law we will define whether we will accept the law in general. Although, among us, the proposed solution is so bad that it would be best to withdraw from the congregation procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18720	The word has been made by MP Dragan Tomic, a representative of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18721	Dear Members of the People's Parliament, we have before us a law of technical character with detailed instructions for the draft budget of the Republic of Serbia, territorial units, authorities of local self-government and financial plans of mandatory social security organisations. If you were to look at only from this point of view of the calendar type, who does what, when he brings, whose powers are, there really is no comment there, because he can only discuss whether a date in this document is valid or not, which in my opinion is not an important fact, is not even a matter of detail. However, there is one thing that certainly deserves attention and that we in the Socialist Party, when we received this bill, have thought long and discussed how to assess that area in general. This is the case with the establishment of the Republic's vault and it is not disputed, it is important and necessary for the functioning of a single state, however, there is a problem of an absolute centralisation of the financial resources of the Republic of Serbia, and when the financial resources of the Republic of the Health Insurance Institute, the Republic of the Pension and Disability Insurance Fund and the Republic Office for the Labour Market are included in this, it is indeed one complex conglomerate of the different rights established by the Constitution. The rights of funds and social insurance are the rights of users and donors, meaning not the rights of the state but of the beneficiary and the donor, and their rights are governed by decisions in a different way and have the character of the public sector, and users and service providers in the area have the most right to decide on their own resources. There's a reverse situation going on here. The greatest right to decide their assets has the Ministry of Finance. However, it is said -- we will approve financial plans, can be made available under these plans, and sub-accounts will be opened in all areas, so it does not appear that they will not have the funds. But still, when you add up all the resources and put them under one hat, in one hand, determine their dynamics of strict application, then I don't think it's the right of the user and the donor, but I think it's just centralization of the state. Absolute centralization. I already don't know which way it shows that Serbia is slowly in financial terms entering a dictatorship, a definitive dictatorship, and I don't think that such a dictatorship in the West has brought anything good, or in some country the transition has been applied and has shown some significant results. The terms were mentioned to discuss macroeconomic and fiscal policy in mid-May. I don't know what time I'm telling you that our fiscal policy is low. The fight against the gray economy is a very diabolical story from which there is nothing at this point, and when we talk about macroeconomic policy, I guess someone was thinking about economics. The economy in Serbia, at this point, is at a significant decline. I even think that even institutes that deal with everything other than what this citizen should live on, are most concerned with -- whose reputation is greatest in the public. Whether or not it is -- that's probably what voters will say in the next election, but they can't tell us how much production growth we have in Serbia at the moment, whether there is it at all, what it is in some branches of production, whether there is a fall, how much employment people in Serbia have done in the past year, how little work is left, whether we're here in plus or minus. These are some elements of macroeconomic policy. What are our prospects of hiring a young generation, when we talk about leaving and draining our minds from Serbia. We keep putting that in the rapper of the former regime. I must say that last year has shown that the largest number of people in Serbia in the past year left Serbia and went "by belly after bread" to other countries. When you talk about controlling the financial plans of social and pension funds organisations, it might be better if the social and pension insurance reform law came to this home. I think over two million people in Serbia expect a change in pension insurance, especially in the area of agricultural insurance, or insurance for pensioners in the country. For years, there have been efforts and persistent efforts by agricultural producers to provide voluntary retirement insurance. We have often talked about and warned that this is an important link, and to return to real taxation, especially that part of the population, that we are not engaged in the regulation, gross profits in the economy, which have nothing to do with the achievement of income in agriculture, so they have nothing to do with the actual incomes generated by agricultural producers, the actual costs and expenditures they have in the course of their activities, their occupations, and here they have a situation to pay taxes based on the gross earnings of employed workers in the economy. When we add up out of business, then we have to say that there are these powerful organizations, where significantly high personal incomes, which cannot possibly be a rapper for agricultural production, nor represent any element in this area. I'm talking about macroeconomic policy. Of course there's another fact -- it's now entering Serbia at the big door of the budget deficit. I'm afraid it stands, you've processed it nicely in a member, the budget deficit, and you've said that the elements for funding budget deficits are privatisations and company sales, the second element is donations and a third loan from the IMF, which is still a secret, what's going to happen to their about 800 and some million dollars. It is simply amazing that no one on either side sees how to raise the level of production in Serbia, how to create new jobs, how to avoid narrowing down production volumes, how not just to deal with projections in one area and only to protect certain areas of production? It's just amazing how normal something can look at all, when we put a bill like this in front of us. I don't see any significant problem here, but when you talk about macroeconomic policy, mandatory social security organisations and the way you construct the vault, we are already in a situation where there is an absolute centralization of finance in this country. To remind me that Serbia does not have its own national bank, that it does not have its own policy in the area, so that indeed, a man must be least restrained, although the SPS, when it comes to this bill, will be against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-20-0.u18722	Thank you. This concludes today's work and continues tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the First Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 147 MPs attend today's session. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their cards into the parliamentary units. I figure we have a quorum and we can keep working. I inform you that they are prevented from attending the following MPs: Milan Radulović, Stevan Lilic, Dragoslav Bošković, Nada Kolundžija, Vladimir Dobrosavljević, Dragan Jočić, Milos Lukić, Dragisa Binić, Sava Popadić, Ratimir Svirčević, Milutin Sverković, Pal Shandor, Radic Jokovic, Petar Misic, Sredoje Mihajlov, Kasa Jožef, Biaci Anton, Išpanovic Istvan, Zoran Novaković and Zoran M. Nikolic. The absent afternoons Anita Beretic and Milena Andric, afternoon Srda Popovic, and the MP Višnja Nezic will be late. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. Also, according to members 83 and 84. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I invited representatives of the People's Movement "Resistance" and representatives of the Association of Families of Kidnapped and Missing Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija to this session. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on the BUĐETSK SYSTEM (principle debate) I remind you that Mr Bozidar Djelic, Minister of Finance and Economy, submitted an opinion at the opening session yesterday, that Parliamentarian Ljubomir Mucic, as well as that MPs Miroljub Veljković, representative of the SRS and Dragan Tomic, a representative of the SPS parliamentary group, had participated in the search. Are any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, applying for a word? The word is from MP Srdjan Petrovic, deputy president of the DOS-DSS parliamentary group.
