ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17787	Madam President of the Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, seven days ago I sent an open letter to the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I do not understand the reasons why the ministry did not multiply the letter and share it with all MPs, to get acquainted with its contents. For this reason, I publish the text of this letter. "Dear Mrs Micic, I remind you that on February 12th this year, the full year has ended since I, according to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, launched the number of these and that the National Custodial Decision on the suspension of the remaining state symbols from the communist period. "The initiative is supported by 36 signatures, although I have no doubt that would be the final number of those who would vote for such a assembly decision, but unfortunately, that is why they were not given the opportunity. The sole culprits are your predecessor, Mr. Martian, and you. Why? Article 135(2) The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia explicitly say that the regulated initiative must be put on the agenda at the longest after 90 days, and in the event of a possible overrun by the president of the National Assembly will inform the MPs of the reason for the overrun. I didn't get the reasons for the deadline from Mr. Martian, waiting for him for 208 days. I've been waiting for 62 days for Mrs. Micic to admit that patience betrays me. So I suggest that by February 12, 2002, you give a firm guarantee to the signator of this letter that this initiative will be on the agenda immediately after the session is completed. Of course, I expect the MPs to, in accordance with Article 135(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, please inform of the reasons for such a drastic overrun of all deadlines. If such guarantees remain or the explanation requested is not convincing enough, we would like to inform you that the DOS-New Serbia parliamentary group will perform the solemn removal of the communist coat of arms from the National Assembly, in the session break, on February 12th of this year. We'll be transporting the same to your office right after the ceremony and handing it over to you for further use and use. I also remind you that on 5 December last year, I submitted a bill on the rights of Serbian citizens to the full availability and use of my own file, led by the State Security Service. In the hope that this proposal will not experience the fate of the previous initiative, receive the expressions of my usual appreciation. Of course, Mrs. Micic didn't answer in writing, but we agreed on it orally yesterday. Ms. Micic said that on the first day of the regular session, this initiative will be on the agenda. For that reason, we're closing this case. So those who enjoy the coat of arms still have opportunities to enjoy it. Mrs. Micic refused to take it to her office because she already has such a coat of arms. So, all we have is the possibility of putting him on a public tender. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17788	Since I am obliged to give you an explanation, Mr. Cirkovic, first of all, to tell you that you failed to exercise your right and that you yourself missed the deadlines to react while former President Dragan Marsican was. You didn't take any initiative to speed up or comment, but you waited a year, so now you're putting that remark on me. Secondly, we will see for a regular session, if the procedure meets the requirements of your proposal, if it is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, with the Constitution, with the laws. In that case, it will be put on the agenda at a regular session in March. Therefore, I did not give any firm guarantee that it would be in a regular session. (Zoran Cirkovic: I have witnesses that you gave guarantees. I can only put it to the vote if you are not satisfied with my answer. Members of the 43rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Miomir Ilic and Zoran D. Nikolic. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. The word has been given by MP Miomir Ilic, representative of the amendment applicants to Article 43.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17789	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SPS has submitted an amendment to Article 43. The bill, for reasons that it considers that the overindulgence of the president of the municipality, as authorities of local self-government, excludes one fundamental claim that local self-government is, above all, the express will of the citizens, who made their will in a statement by direct voting, through the secret selection of their representatives in the municipal assembly, where these elections are being held. Since a number of amendments and objections by opposition parties, including the leading parties within the DOS, to those of the president of the municipality are extremely large, we believe that this member should also be deleted for this reason. By giving such a great opportunity for the local self-government to see the executive function in one person, in a man called the president of the municipality, we believe that there is also a certain dualism. The minister, Mr Batic, said yesterday that objections to the collective executive body in the previous period, about many of the negatives that have been expressed in relation to the execution of authorities in the municipalities through the collective body, do not stand. Because the transfer of certain entrusted transactions, which are now passed by this law to municipalities, speaks of that one man cannot be the only one who brings, who chooses, who solves, who is both a prosecutor and a judge. For this reason, the collective body, as we have proposed to call it, as it has been -- the executive board, the DSS -- the municipal council, in any case, is a more appropriate solution for local self-government than the proposal that has been made here, that the president of the municipality takes so much responsibility that it can be freely said that it represents absolute authority. From yesterday's statement, the minister should follow: yes, if we do not need a collective executive body in local self-government, then why do we need the Government of the Republic of Serbia as well. The government of the Republic of Serbia, next to the prime minister, has its ministers, who are obviously working or not working and are one collective body. On that principle, as the minister said, we do not need ministers, but rather to disband the government and then elect the prime minister, so he can enforce the executive power at the level of this shortened Serbia, to which laws we have passed so far will apply, following this omnibus law for Vojvodina. For this reason, I believe that this member should be deleted and a collective executive body introduced. I would also ask a question, using the time I still have, the Minister and the President of the Assembly -- what about Article 27, because Article 27 is a regulated issue of the body of the assembly. According to the bill, there is a congregation of municipalities and a president of the municipality. The DSS amendment also proposes to be a municipal council. The municipal council was not adopted by that amendment, and therefore there is no body. New amendments, such as amendments to Art. Thirty-two. The bill gave certain rights, adopting by the congregation's majority, that there is a municipal council. I ask the question of the Minister and the President of the Assembly -- what about Article 27, where no amendment of the DSS for the establishment of the body of the assembly in local self-government -- has been adopted by the municipal council, since Article 32, which followed, was adopted by the DS amendment. I don't think that argument really clears up. I believe that we have great rights and that we have many authorities, along with the assembly of the municipality, the president of the assembly, who is the speaker, we have the president of the municipality, the municipal manager, the municipal defender. (President: Time. We now have a college or the office of the president of the municipality. We have so many organs that these people, who represent something in local self-government, won't know who's responsible for what or how. For that reason, I believe that article 43 should be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17790	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) I ask the MPs to wait a few minutes for a report from the Committee on Justice and Administration, on this and on the other members. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 46, against 117 abstentions, 19 of the 182 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 43rd amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. The word is submitted by the amendment, MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17791	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS, by applying the amendment to Article 43, has estimated that it is necessary to make changes to the proposed member, so much before the introduction of a new institution that is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Thus, in Article 113(6) of the Constitution, it is prescribed that the municipality executes, in addition to other transactions, and laws, although in the proposal of this law and of this member there is no provision at all, nor is it proposed. On the other hand, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in Article 116(2), states: "The assembly of municipalities is elected by committees in direct elections, by secret vote." What does that mean? That no one but elected councilmen can be appointed nor can a new institution be introduced by the Constitution that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia does not know. In addition, I estimate that in Serbia, we will have breathers who, in their 19th century, fled and removed from the central government, which among other things caused the first Serbian uprising. There are a number of powers foreseen for the president of the municipality. These powers are too great; powers that will in any case be centralisation, not decentralisation and democratisation of local self-government. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, this proposal in Article 43 is also contrary to the European Charter of Local Self-Government, in points 1) and (3). Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with the view that it is a number of powers, which do not know the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the SRS is opposed to introducing a new institute besides the speaker of the assembly -- the president of the municipality. As a result, the SRS has proposed to amend this member and this provision, so much as instead of the proposal will be the Executive Board, made up of the president and a number of members. The Executive Board shall be elected for four years from the order of the Board. That is why we believe that this amendment is absolutely in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we were an hour late today. The president of the assembly didn't come to the assembly, and he was obliged, because yesterday it was objected that we were an hour late. We're an hour late again today. For what? The president of the assembly didn't come to his post at 10 o'clock. That's number one. In addition, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are given phone calls to get the Assembly serious, to pay more attention to the rights of workers. One of the calls was a call from Somboro, 2,000 workers...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17792	Time and theme, Mr. Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17793	... You're on strike... (thank you very much, I'll finish right away) and who even go to the hunger strike, because 1,000 workers will be out of work only in one collective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17794	Is there anyone else applying for this amendment? Yeah. ) Here you are, MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17795	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today the Serbian Orthodox Church celebrates the Holy Tri-Jerarch, the cross of glory and the protectors of the Serbian Radical Party. To all Orthodox Serbs, and to Serbian radicals in particular, I congratulate this fame, and I want them to remove the DOS from power as soon as possible, so that Serbia can gain power as possible. I'm asking you not to touch us so much today, we're in a candlelight mood, and maybe we won't be able to answer that. The SRS amendment represented an important change in the bill. Either we will have the president of the municipality who will be all-powerful in the municipality or we will have one body that will be responsible for the SO, or for the committees, the only ones that the Constitution knows as representatives of the citizens who decide on SO jobs and who are elected in the direct secret elections. The president of the municipality does not exist in the Constitution of Serbia, you raise him above the legal order of our country, you raise him above all you establish principles for him that apply neither to the Prime Minister nor to the President of the Republic, nor to the President of the National Assembly. It's just that you're introducing an institute of a non-replaceable man only a biological death could separate from the function he's in. I am convinced that the government of the Republic of Serbia will not even be allowed to reach for the measure provided for here by the bill, which is to initiate a procedure for impeaching the president of the municipality. The referendum is being organised by the president of the municipality, which means that the referendum would not succeed if the government wanted to. Even the government would throw up if it was trying to bring down a local powerful man who couldn't do anything. He has truly terrible ingenuity, incomprehensible to our country. Clear and dress. Imagine, for example, the president of the municipality in Serbia who has its own private veterinary station. There's competition, and he's sending them an inspection. They establish that competition does not meet the conditions that are necessary. Who's complaining, who's doing the second degree? The president of the municipality. He can even sit at his station and write a second-degree solution. I'm talking about something that might happen tomorrow. It's probably gonna happen. Why not the executive board? Is it just because he's existed so far under the Law of Local Self-Government? Why is the basis for refusing what happened yesterday? Read the Charter you are referring to. The Charter mentions only the committees elected in the direct elections. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia fully respected the Charter in its chapter on local self-government. He can't go any further than that. Read, three members are concerned with local self-government and it is as if our Constitution prescribed them - citizens' jobs are decided by their representatives in the municipal assembly, and the council of municipalities is elected by the councils in direct secret elections. It's all clear. No sheriff, no mayor, nothing that would be out of the system. There's no local police, there's no one. We appeal to you to get serious and not to cut your skirt just because someone cut it short. If you look at it first, it'll cost you a lot of money. There are various kinds of fashions, not fashion everything that comes from the West, and especially not applicable to us here who have completely different principles.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17796	The word comes from MP Zeljo Huric, deputy president of the parliamentary group Reformists Vojvodina and the Sandzak Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17797	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment treats the issue of an executive committee, one body that absolutely does not exist. It does not exist in the proposed text of this law, as well as in the amendment to Article 42, so on the previous article, it is not accepted that such one body is installed within the framework of the SO. So then all the discussion about it, in my opinion, is completely meaningless. I agree that we should focus the discussion on those issues concerning the situation and, above all, on the position of workers. We'll do it first if we don't, we'll have some groundless conversations. Otherwise, the reason is only to be photographed in front of the cameras today, because, as you know, the scope of the view has been narrowed down. So we better discuss what needs to be discussed, which is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17798	Thank you. Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 51, against 118, two were abstentions, not 16 votes, out of 187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. In accordance with Article 84(2), which states: "The President of the National Assembly gives the necessary explanations regarding the work on session and other issues", I would like to inform you that I have received a report from the Committee on Justice and Administration, which, on the basis of Article 145. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, submitted seven amendments to Articles 27, 32, 43, 45, 46 and 47. I'm setting a 30-minute break for the Service to share material with the MPs and to continue the discussion in detail. [[After break - 12.20.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen, please proceed to the session, to determine the quorum. I figure we have a quorum and we can keep working. You have received a report from the Committee on Justice and Administration, which has laid down amendments to the proposal for a law on local justice within the meaning of Article 145. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Mr Vladan Batic, the minister of justice and local self-government, answered the words.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17800	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, distinguished guests, first of all, I would like to make a small progress and congratulate all the Orthodox believers and MPs of the Serbian Radical Party today on the glory of the Tri-Jerarch. Otherwise, I would like to inform the National Assembly that the Government accepts the amendments of the Committee on Justice and Administration to Articles 27, 32, 43 and new members of 45a. and 45b, as well as amendments to Articles 46 and 47.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17801	The People's Messenger Tomislav Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17802	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, article 145. The Rules of Procedure say that in the course of the review of the amendment's proposal, the draft law can be submitted in writing by the legislator, the competent committees, or the Government, but only if the need for an amendment has arisen as a result of the previous acceptance of another amendment. I agree that the Committee on Justice, the Legislative Committee, that is, always the parent committee, should monitor the assembly debate and assess when the time for amendments came, but we have received amendments here to the members of the law that we have not yet discussed. It is true that they are now referring to some of the powers of some new, newly established bodies, but I cannot understand with all this that the amendment written by the Committee is neither like the bill nor the amendments we accepted as the National Assembly during the debate. It turns out that in the course of the debate, although it is an extraordinary session, although all deadlines have passed, too broad or too broadly interpreting the 145th Committees are writing new bill proposals. As we all remember, and you should at least remember you who followed the debate, we said yesterday that we would now have a bigger one in the assembly that would control the work of the president of the municipality; that was the basis for yesterday's adoption of an amendment to the Democratic Party of Serbia and after that I heard the MPs of the DOS say -- now the law has passed. When you read the new amendment, which we have received and standing on our table, it says - the municipal council is helping the president of the municipality do business under his jurisdiction. There's no control of the president of the county. Why are we playing law-making here? Why don't we pass laws as prescribed by the Constitution, by the law and by our Rules of Procedure? What's going on, he's solving in the second degree, and there's only now going to be a conflict of jurisdiction between the president of the municipality and the municipal council, and it's yet to be harmonised. It is now necessary to amend the provisions on the president of the municipality. I don't think this amendment, with this kind of amendment, has reached a goal that he wanted to achieve the amendment that was accepted by the Assembly. The assembly has agreed to adopt an amendment whereby there will be a body to control the president of the municipality. This is what the chairman of the Telecom Management Board did not do with this amendment, and should be reminded that it does not only come when it is due to sign these amendments, but rather to participate in the debate. To all those who congratulate us on glory, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17803	And I congratulate you. I don't think there was any breach of the Rules of Procedure. The Justice and Administration Committee has acted in accordance with Article 145. Rules of Procedure for the adoption of amendments which produce consequences for the other members of the proposed law. Do you want me to put a vote in breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) On Article 27 of the amendment was submitted by the Committee on Justice and Management, on the basis of Article 145. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. A representative of the government has accepted this amendment. Does anyone want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 120, against 21, abstentions 6, there was no vote of 20, out of 167 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Pursuant to Article 32 of the amendment, the Committee on Justice and Administration has submitted, on the basis of Article 145. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The government's representative also accepted this amendment. Is anyone answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 117 against 20 abstentions, the vote was not 22, out of 168 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Pursuant to Article 43 of the amendment, the Committee on Justice and Administration has submitted, on the basis of Article 145. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The government's representative also accepted this amendment. Is anyone answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 115, against 25, two abstentions, were not voted 28 out of 170 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 43rd amendment was submitted by MP Istvan Ispanovich. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. A group of MPs: Vladimir Dobrosavljevic, Petar Majarevic, Zoran M. Nikolic, Dragan Jočić, Dusan Golubović, Slavoljub Matić, Milutin Svetkovic and Petar Cvetkovic submitted to the amendment. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the amendment's representative, MP Slavoljub Matic, want a word? No, I don't. ) Here you are, the word has been spoken by Parliamentarian Zoran M. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17804	We withdraw the amendment to Article 43.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17805	I find that the applicant for the amendment has withdrawn the amendment to Article 43. The 43rd amendment was submitted by MP Milos Lukic. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you are, MP Milos Lukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17806	(Glasses -- it's covered. ) Here, the Honorable Presidency, the minister is just saying that it is covered by this decision, and I am also familiar with the report that Article 43, article 6, has also been deleted, which was my amendment. There's no need to explain any further.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17807	I find that the MP withdrew the amendment, since it was adopted in Amendment 3. The Committee for Justice and Administration adopted by the Assembly. Members of the 43rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs: Cedomir Jovanovic, Nenad Bogdanovic, Milena Milosevic, Milan Markovic and Dragan Pavlovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. A group of MPs: Vladimir Dobrosavljevic, Petar Majarevic, Zoran M. Nikolic, Dragan Jočić, Dusan Golubović, Slavoljub Matić, Milutin Svetkovic and joint MPs Milan Jankovic and Sreten Mitrović submitted to the 44th amendment. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Do any of the applicants of the amendment want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17808	In Article 44, it states that the President of the Municipality is obliged to indicate to the Assembly, within 30 days of the date of the adoption of the General Act, on its contrary to the Constitution, the Law and the Statute. The municipal assembly is required at the first session to reconsider and vote on the disputed regulation or the second general act. The only practical consequence of this provision is that the president of the municipality has the right to convene an emergency session on the case. Everything else, it seems to us, is very illogical, since there is no purpose nor can any veto be considered a request for a review of the rules already in force by the Assembly, and this may have more serious consequences if a regulation or act is returned to the Assembly for review. The question arises as to what happens in the interregnum, or what happens in the meantime, and what if the assembly of the municipality changes its act or regulations. Then who's older and what happens to the application of that regulation in the meantime. So, simply, it seems to us that this is not logical and I would appeal to the MPs to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17809	Anybody else answer for a word? The word has been made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17810	I don't think the proposer of this amendment has detailed the amendment in detail. There is, in fact, another reason for the amendment to be accepted, and that is - the full illogicalness of this member. If you are reading Article 43 paragraph 1(3), it is the right of the president of the municipality to propose decisions and other acts taken by the assembly, as well as the way in which the congregation issues are resolved. And then, in Article 44, the president of the municipality -- he is required to point out to the assembly within 30 days of the adoption of a general act on his opposition to the Constitution, the law and the statute. He proposes to adopt one act, and now, after that, you give the right to indicate that this act is not in accordance with the Constitution, the law or the statute. You've really gone too far. This is analogous to the powers of the President of the Republic, who has the right to return to the Assembly one act which he has brought and which, when his services assist him in his work, he thinks is not in conformity with the Constitution. But it really doesn't make sense to elaborate on the rights of the president of the municipality so closely, that he doesn't really have any obligation to anyone in the municipality. He is not responsible for his work, so do not give him the right to command the congregation. There are ministries that are competent to determine whether the legal acts brought by the municipality's assembly, and we're going to get to those members that you once, while you were in the opposition, attacked hard, and said that the ministries were tutoring the municipalities. There are still those solutions in your bill. So there are ministries that are obliged to take care of the legality and work of the municipalities' congregations, so that this right should not be given to the president of the municipality at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17811	Anyone else want a word? Please, he has the word of Minister Vladan Batic, a proposing official.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17812	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Government accepts the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17813	Anyone else want a word from an authorized participant? No, I don't. ) The government has accepted this amendment, but the Assembly committees have not, so I am putting amendments to Article 44 to vote. For 141, two, abstentions, were not voted by 34, a total of 179 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. National MP Ljubomir Kragovic submitted to the 44th amendment. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There is a word from MP Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17814	Dear fellow Members of Parliament, Article 44, where the President of the Municipality is entitled to control the work of the Assembly of the Municipality and whether these acts are in accordance with the Constitution and the law and the statute of the municipality, is another of the too many powers, which are also in collegiate with Article 43, with powers that the president of the municipality has in relation to the municipality. In front of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment that was partially adopted and I want to tell you that this member should be changed and it should read: "The Executive Committee for its work corresponds to the Assembly of the Municipality. The Executive Board shall regularly report to the Assembly of the Municipality, either on its own initiative or on its request, on the enforcement of decisions and other acts of the Assembly of the Municipality. The Executive Board or any of its members may be authorised before the end of the time in which they are elected, on a reasoned proposal from the President of the Executive Board or at least one third of the committees, in the same way that they have been elected. The Executive Board, which has been resolved, either resigned, or suspended its mandate due to the disbanding of the assembly due to early elections, remains on the post until the election of the new Executive Board. "The reason for the government of the Republic of Serbia is that this amendment is rejected because the solution to this amendment is contained in the bill, already existing law. It's an argument that "does not drink water", because the fact is that today such or similar amendment has already been adopted. What is characteristic of this proposal is that most of the MPs present have pointed out that the huge flaw of this very bill is just too large, pre-named powers of the president of the municipality, so there is a situation where the assembly of the municipality, the committee, the secretary of the municipality only decor in the local self-government unit. This amendment seeks to point out one solution, which allows local self-government to function better, that the committees have an impact on the executive power they choose and can change it in the same way, which is more democratic and rational for the local self-government unit. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, while we are discussing amendments to the Bill on Local Self-Government, occupier power in Kosovo and Metohija, just by shutting down local self-government in the municipalities of Strpce and Kosovo Mitrovica and imposing some "democratic multiethnic" authorities, it offers Serbs the presidents of municipalities, Cypriot separatists and terrorists. What the occupiers have failed by robbing, indulging, terror, murder, kidnapping, now through alleged democratic institutions are trying to implement -- a Shiptar decision on ethnic cleansing of Kosovo and Metohija. We ask the Ministry of Justice and local self-government to act in accordance with the Declaration, which was adopted in this parliament, on non-recognition of constitutional frameworks for Kosovo and Metohija, and to protect the remaining Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija by countering the violent bringing of Cypriot terrorists and separatists to the head of the municipalities in the Serb environments in Kosovo and Metohija. Otherwise, Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija will see this government as the Noah government that bends its head into sand in front of those very big problems that affect citizens in Kosovo and Metohija, especially Serbian nationalities.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17815	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? There is a word from MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17816	Ladies and gentlemen, the People's MPs, the Government of the Republic of Serbia who is the Proposer, and also most of them created during the debate on the draft law in the National Assembly, are slowly changing the concept of this bill and would say that they are not ashamed, and I don't know why they should be ashamed of them, would prefer to rewrite the decisions of the applicable Law on Local Self-Government, provisions concerning the work of elected authorities in the municipality or the city assembly. Namely, from a rigid solution the president of the municipality worked on alone, without control and without help, by talking about the selection of a control body, there was an auxiliary body called the municipal council. We suggest that the assembly of the municipality or the City Assembly has an executive board, that it has a government, and not that it has a larger one whose rights and obligations are contained in only four positions of one member; not that it has the right to control the municipal administration, the work of the municipal administration, because then what will the head of the administration do, what will then be done by the president of the municipality, who has proposed the head of the administration; not that it controls the legality of acts brought by the assembly, because for that there are ministries, and only the functions are doubled. We thought that it should be an authority that will lead one municipality or one city, in which it will be a representative of the assembly majority, created by voting on the election of the president of the municipality and that executive board, where everyone will make sure that the management depends on the number of votes that can be reached in the municipal assembly for some decision. You first imagined it all in one way, in a very bad way, and then in a rough way, you wrote the amendments to only half an hour, on a bill written for a year, of any bad law, made one bag full of patches. It's only now that there's going to be anything and everything in the community. For God's sake, the city's president's rights have been reduced, and they're not reduced. For God's sake, there is a control mechanism that will make up representatives in the assembly, which is not. The control mechanism still has a duty to assist the president of the municipality in carrying out operations under his jurisdiction. Now he can even call out to them why they're not helping him, now the president of the municipality can say - tomorrow at 10.00 municipal council at my office (you call it a cabinet), coffee and drink, and even say what they should do. Well, there's no control, then those are the assistants. Each one of them will be able to be a errand boy, who will be hired by the president of the municipality to do something to help him, to buy him a pig, to get him a pig, to get him a pig, to buy him a burek. Really, figure it out, either you want local self-government, or you want Dodge City, Tombston, to have their mayor, the sheriff, to have bandits fighting that sheriff, to have bandits working with the sheriff.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17817	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? He doesn't want to. ) If not, I am putting the amendment to MP 44 Ljubomir Kragovic's vote. For 27, against 114 abstentions, 12 did not vote 19, out of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 45th Amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic and MP Slobodan Tomovic. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Do the applicants want a word? He has the word National MP Slobodan Tomovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17818	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 45. Proposal for a law on local self-government. The point of the amendment is to delete that member. So, in the light of the amendments, I had no intention of paving out the reasons why the president of the municipality could stop. These reasons, if we were to discuss each other individually, maybe they have a reason and maybe something like that can pass. But the point of the amendment is that we think that the managing authority in the municipality should be the executive board, not the president of the municipality. So, for these reasons, starting with the fact that there shouldn't be an authority of the municipality and the president of the municipality, we suggested that this member be deleted. I would like to say that it is almost incomprehensible that the proposing on one side wants the law on local self-government to inaugurate democratisation, decentralisation, etc. (if there is any in that law at all), and on the other hand, it puts a point in one place and says, here we will give all authority or significant powers to one individual. It seems that even the degree of development of social consciousness, and even individual, is not at this point such a thing can be done without consequences. That was the reason why we suggested what we proposed, and it seems that the promoter saw that, however, in the bill itself, he made a mistake. I conclude that on the basis of an attempt to correct now what can be corrected, then some control authorities are given to the president of the municipality, etc. I don't think that's good. So, I think if the solution is already inadequate, then trying to fix it is just more derogating and thus a solution is made. Finally, nothing else can come from such a solution but a hermaphrodite, you know, has one and the other organ, and it can't be used adequately either. That's why we think the right solution would be to accept our proposal and to abolish, as an organ, the president of the municipality.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17819	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic, as the applicant of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17820	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the next concept of local self-government that is in line with the SRS programme, we have proposed to delete this member. It is obvious that you will not accept this amendment, but I am now referring you to the need for another amendment, which could be written by the legislator or this "Telecom board". In Article 45(4), you propose that the Government of the Republic of Serbia may submit a motion to recall the president of the municipality if it considers that entrusted transactions are not carried out in accordance with the law. The amendment that you have set up for the municipal council, in Article 45b point (2), reads: "The municipal council shall supervise the work of the municipal administration, annul or abolish the acts of the municipal administration, which are not in accordance with the law, statute and other general act or decision of the municipality". Now the president of the municipality has no obligation at all, no responsibility if the assembly of the municipality adopts acts that are not in accordance with the law. On this basis, according to the amendment you adopted, the government of the Republic of Serbia can no longer call the president of the municipality because trusted transactions are not carried out in accordance with the law, but rather larger. By law, you trusted the municipal council to exercise control over the legality of the acts brought by the congregation of the municipalities. And that little possibility to the government of the Republic of Serbia to submit at least a motion to recall the president of the municipality has been abolished by Article 45, an amendment submitted by the "Telecom Committee". Otherwise, if he can't do better, there is an amendment by a national MP that provides for the possibility for a local self-government unit assembly to launch a procedure before the Serbian Supreme Court for resolving the president of the municipality unless he does his work in accordance with the law. You have so widely predicted by the law of his authority that it will practically, everything he does will be in accordance with the law. But it could remain an illusion that the Assembly is trying to bring everything back to legal standards. I think that the amendment of the People's Parliament, which provides that the majority of the committees at the session should have started a request before the Supreme Court, was to be worked by the Justice Committee and, in addition to some corrections, proposed by the National Assembly to accept it. Otherwise, this really doesn't make sense. There's no point in having a president of the municipality who'll be responsible for something that's not his jurisdiction. I wish he had enormous responsibility, not just enormous rights. (President: three minutes 30 seconds. But by this law you didn't establish it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17821	The word is from MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the DOS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17822	Mrs. Comic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I think we have resolved these issues with amendments adopted by the Committee at the request of the House of Representatives of the DOS, i.e. the DSS and the Representative of the Resort Ministry. Therefore, points 6) and 7 of Article 43 shall be deleted, which shall specify the obligations of the President of the Municipality, i.e. its rights. This is point 6 of which refers to competences in the process of resolving the administrative procedure in the second degree on the rights and responsibilities of citizens, businesses and institutions and other organisations of the executive work of the municipality. These powers shall be transferred to the municipal council. As regards entrusted transactions within the framework of the rights and duties of the Republic, these entrusted transactions remain as the authority of the President of the Municipality and they cannot be subjected to anything under Article 45a, which determines the competences and rights of the municipal council. The municipal council is a second-degree body that coordinates the performance of the municipality's president and assembly. So there is no room for this kind of danger that could possibly be indicated if we could transfer to the municipal council the responsibilities that remain attached to the president of the municipality. In fact, it is only a balance between a very significant function that represents a newspaper in the organisation of a system of local self-government and a committee that must retain a certain amount of control over the process of working within the local self-government. That's what our wishes are, and we've done it through this, not suspending the rights of either side.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17823	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) I put the amendments to Article 45 to vote. For 42, against 110, a abstentioned one, did not vote 21, out of 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 45th Amendment was submitted by MP Išpanovich Istvan. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) The word of the People's Messenger is Ispanovich Istvan.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17824	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, was here yesterday and today to say that the president of the municipality has too much authority and that his resolution is practically not possible. Based on experiences from other legislations and practices from other countries, I have made one proposal. I am very sorry that this amendment was not accepted by the Government. I am convinced that among the first amendments to this law will be the adoption of this amendment, unfortunately later. When it comes to the need for the president of the municipality to be resolved: one case is when such reasoning arises between the president of the municipality and the assembly of the municipality, the practical work of the assembly of the municipality is paralysed; another reason is when the president of the municipality works illegally. This second reason has already tried to explain before, and I thank him for it. I think the only way to determine that the president of the municipality is to do illegal, judicial proceedings. Previously, when it comes to dating between the president of the municipality as an executive body and the assembly of the municipality as a representative body, there is a very simple solution that is known to many countries: the municipality of the municipality simply makes a decision for most of all the votes of the committee on its disbandment. At the same time, the term of office of the president of the municipality ends. Then new elections are being held, as this allows the municipality of the municipality to work normally again, the president of the municipality and the assembly of the municipality are being re-elected. I think the current solution is in the law, that it goes through the election or vote to impeach the president of the municipality, a very bad solution. I don't know if this will be necessary, since we don't have an electoral law that follows this law, whether 10% of the votes will be able to resolve the president of the municipality, whether a qualified majority needs to be resolved, in which way. It will be chosen by 50% of voters, and then it will be resolved by 10% of voters. I don't see that possibility. If a qualified majority is determined, that at least 50% of voters must participate in the impeachment of the president of the municipality, I fear that no president of the municipality will ever be resolved. I want this to work, but I am convinced that, after the first attempts, you will propose to amend the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17825	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 31, against 109 abstention four, he did not vote 31, out of 175 members of parliament. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of MPs: Vladimir Dobrosavljevic, Petar Majarevic, Zoran M. Nikolic, Dragan Jočić, Dusan Golubović, Slavoljub Matić, Milutin Svetkovic and Petar Cvetkovic submitted to the amendment. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Do any of the authorized participants want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Milutin Svetović.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17826	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Elections, Article 45 defines how the president of the municipality ends his term before the time he was elected here in the draft law provides that the president of the municipality ceases his term of office when he resigns, when he is sentenced to an unconditional prison sentence of at least six months and by impeaching the elections. In fact, this proposal does not address all the reasons why the president of the municipality can stop, which can bring in one legal uncertainty. The DSS in this amendment, which has been taxed, states in six and seven points all the reasons why the president of the municipality may cease his post before the time he was elected and points out the specific reasons for the termination of the mandate which are subject to the other amendments. The term of office of the president of the municipality shall be determined by the ministry responsible for local self-government, and the Assembly of the Municipality shall determine the termination of the term of office on the basis of the act of the ministry. The exemption concerns the termination of the term of office because of the resignation and other cases which are not explicitly prescribed by the amendment. The proposed solution protects the integrity of the president of the municipality, which was elected directly from the citizens of the municipality, but avoids the possibility that the assembly of the municipality, more specifically the majority of the assembly, should initiate a procedure to resolve the president or obstruct the termination of his term of office. The decision is made by a third and neutral organ of the Republic rank. The end of the term of office of the president of the municipality before the election is also due to the fact that the president of the National Assembly is calling for a new president, and within 15 days of the day of the end of the term of office of the previous president. The exception exists only when less than six months remain until the town's president's term of office, when the elections are not being discussed, as the new president's term would last insignificant. I call on all my colleagues to vote in favour of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17827	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? Yeah. ) The word is held by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the DOS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17828	Mrs. Comic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, this is indeed a matter of precise defining the circumstances under which the president of the municipality can be resolved. Since we had previously adopted an amendment inaugurating Article 45a, by adopting this DSS proposal, we would actually overlap the members of the law. It will therefore be necessary to hold a session of the Justice Committee afterwards, in order to bring about this correction. Otherwise, this amendment is acceptable to us, because it deprives both local self-government and each one of us here, responsibilities that would monitor the possible non-compliance of the law with real life. So, we need to accept this proposal, but then the Justice Committee will have to meet, correct and then we should vote once more to get a final version of the law. This is just a precise definition and alignment with these ideas that are shown in the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17829	The word has been made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17830	This is what a debate looks like when you agree on the session itself whether to vote for the bill or not, so now you have to accept the amendments of someone else. Since they are not responding at all to the concept of the law, nor to any other amendments, we will again be waiting for the report of the Justice Committee and the adoption of the law will take place indefinitely. It's really incomprehensible. Don't, it's incomprehensible. [[elevator in the O.R.]] You are now determining how the president of the municipality will be recalled, and no one tells us at all how he will be elected. Now his choice will be regulated by some law that we will pass who knows when, and all of you here are determining how he will be recalled. Of course, I don't suppose he'll even be able to be elected if he doesn't have a place on the territory of the county he's running for office. Of course, there will also be a reason for the end of the term of office. In this law on local self-government, why the reason for the termination of the term of office of the president of the municipality, and we do not know when he will be elected, or how he will be elected, or how he will be resolved, if indeed voters decide whether to continue to be the president of the municipality or not. And, in the end, if it is local self-government, why now to accept the amendment to establish the ministry responsible for the affairs of local self-government the reasons for the termination of the term of office. Where the local self-government ministry is now involved to determine the reasons for ending the municipality president's term. Don't, if necessary, suggest we move on to another agenda. Sit down, agree, call those committees of yours who are doing something, make us a bill here that can be applied, even if we are Serbian radicals against such a concept, but we would like to see the concept against which we are. We're just about to fight a concept, you accept some amendments that change something. Indeed, this seems very unserious, and we will come to the last page of the bill, in which are transitional and final provisions, where there will be complete unseriousness and promoters and you who are now here in walking changing the bill and representing either the government or the congregation majority.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17831	Replica, MP Cedomir Jovanovic, is the basis for a misreading.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17832	Just a brief clarification, since it's obviously misread our idea. The Ministry of Local Self-Government must establish that the reasons for the termination of the term of office have been laid down by law. It does not deal with a political environment in which the president of the municipality can be resolved, but actually gives confirmation that the conditions for resolution have been laid down by law. That's what it's all about and nothing else. As for our work, he's public, I don't think there's anything controversial about it. The only obvious problem actually came from the fact that we adopted an amendment with two identical titlemakers.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17833	National MP Tomislav Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17834	Of course, I should be entitled to a replica, I didn't cause a replica, but here I am using the right to report a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I have not objected to why the ministry is given the right to establish that it can stop the term of office of the president of the municipality, the government of the Republic of Serbia has objected, rejecting this amendment. The government of the Republic of Serbia said it cannot trust the Ministry of Local Self-Government to determine the reasons for stopping the town's president's term.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17835	Do you want to vote on the injury of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. I think the argument is clear and it's not about anything else, it's about misreading the argument of both MPs and the other MPs and I think it was a useful replica. Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the 45th group of MPs to vote. For 90, against 40, with 15 abstentions, 30 did not vote, a total of 175 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment to the 45th Group of MPs, which will produce an intervention of the Committee on Justice and, according to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The 45th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Novica Djuraskovic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17836	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, yesterday and today the Parliament, with the nomination of the Government as a proposing, has accepted a number of amendments that, in my opinion, essentially change the law, so that the amendments of the League of Social Democrats Vojvodina and the Vojvodina Reformist have become groundless. In the debate in principle, I talked about this: it was first about the property of local self-government, then about the authority of the president of the municipality. This amendment doesn't make any sense anymore and I'm pulling it back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17837	The MP withdrew the amendment, making it stop being the subject of discussion in particular. National MP Zivko Selakovic submitted to the 45th amendment. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17838	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Soviet Parliament group in principle did not vote in favour of this bill, so with more than 20 amendments, it tried to contribute to its improvement. That is also the case with the member of the 45th Assembly Group of the Soviet Union, the amendment set out in Article 45(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The bill after the word "number of councilors" instead of the comma puts an end to the point, and the words "or the Government of the Republic of Serbia if it considers that trusted transactions are not carried out in accordance with the law" are deleted. Here are the reasons for this amendment. Since the president of the municipality is elected by a direct and secret vote by voters in the elections, it cannot be given the authority of the government of the Republic of Serbia to propose an impeachment by the president of the municipality, if it deems the trusted tasks not in accordance with the law. This team before they do, according to Article 42. The bill, the way in which the president of the municipality's term is elected, ends before the time he is elected, regulates the law, which will only be passed. So that question is prejudicial, that is, premature. Given that there has already been a major controversy over this Article 45, the Soviet Parliament group is unique when it comes to selecting the president of the municipality. The president of the municipality is elected by citizens directly, it is nothing controversial, but the way the procedure for ending the term of office is a little strange. What does that mean if the government estimates that it does not meet certain conditions, it does not respect the laws and so on. So, this is completely unnecessary, and we all know well, it's not the minister of justice, who's more famous than the other MPs, that the person chosen, and in this case the president of the municipality, can only be a citizen and resolved. So the position is the parliamentary group, which is why it proposed this amendment, to delete this, because we believe that the government cannot decide because it does not elect the president of the municipality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17839	Anybody else answer for a word? Yeah. ) National MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group:
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17840	The SRS parliamentary group cannot accept this amendment because it is completely out of the concept that we are representing during this debate on the proposal for a law on local self-government. We would like to establish even more situations where a procedure can be initiated to resolve the president of the municipality, not even to deprive the Government of the Republic of Serbia of the right to launch, or to submit a motion for its impeachment. Don't take the president's election away from the council's election. Both are elected in secret direct elections and each other are elected by citizens. The government of the Republic of Serbia has the right to disband the assembly of a municipality or city, if it considers that there are conditions for this: a session has not been held for three months; an act has been adopted which does not comply with the Constitution, etc. Then why can't she make a proposal? I'm even about to be able to replace the president of a community that doesn't do the job properly. I mean, from what I understand, I'm not saying I'm not very capable of understanding either, but as much as I'm capable of becoming increasingly difficult to understand what will eventually be written in the text. As I understand the majority's representative, it remains the president of the municipality's duty to take care of matters entrusted. So, the jobs the Government of the Republic of Serbia has entrusted him with, if he cares about them, have responsibility for them. You can't erase that responsibility. I think it is little to suggest that voters plead it; if it is clear, one of the courts should involve it, which would establish that he does not carry out the tasks entrusted under the law and that would automatically mean his resolution. The president of the assembly takes over his post, and voters are calling for new elections to decide who will be president of the municipality. I ask the President of the National Assembly to, in accordance with Article 139(1). Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly stops by adopting the bill and asks that the Legislative Committee, in co-operation with the parent board, this time the Committee on Justice and Administration, finally deliver those amendments, to know what it is. We are now discussing amendments to Article 45, which is quite certain that it will look completely different when the amendments of the Justice Committee arrive and all this story is deplaced. Take us on a blind track to discuss something that is no longer a bill, we know there will be no bill, and what comes as a proposal, we will no longer have the opportunity to plead at all. It was accepted by the government, proposed by the board, becoming an integral part of the bill. In a minute before the law was passed, a member of the law became an integral part of the bill. The congregation is just a theater here. I may have overstepped, and I see some of the MPs who just sleep in benches remind you that I've overstepped. Come out, sir, for a pay phone, you speak for 15 minutes, and none of the radicals will transfer you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17841	Reference to Article 139(1) The Rules of Procedure state that, if the National Assembly adopts several amendments, it may stop by adopting the proposal as a whole and ask the Legislative Committee to carry out, in cooperation with the legislator, a legal-technical editorial of the text of the draft law, or to ask the competent committee to agree on the amendments adopted with each other and with the text of the draft law. You are referring to the situation that has already taken place and because we have not had a report from the Legislative Committee, the Assembly has stated on amendments submitted by article 145 of the Committee on Justice and Administration. If it had been different, the Assembly would not have declared itself, but concluded that, with the report of the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Justice, the proposed amendment, agreed in a mutual relationship, had become an integral part of the law, so that there was no need for the Assembly to stand by the adoption of this law. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to Article 45, which was submitted by MP Zivko Selaković, and I ask the MPs to declare themselves. For 9, against 117, two abstentions, 39 did not vote, out of 167 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The proposal to add two new members of 45 after Article 45. and 45b. An amendment to add two new members of 45 after article 45. and 45b. He submitted to the Justice and Administration Committee, on the basis of Article 145. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The material of this committee was obtained by the MPs during today's session. Do any of the authorized participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. I'm putting an amendment to the vote. For 95, against 32 abstentions, the 27, out of 163 MPs, did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The proposal to add new members of 45a after Article 45a. and 45b. National MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Nenad Bogdanovic, Milena Milosevic, Milan Markovic and Dragan Pavlovic have tabled a joint amendment suggesting that new members of 45a be added after article 45a. and 45b. The government has accepted this amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Does any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For four, against 126, abstentions 6, there was no vote of 25, out of 161 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment of the group of MPs. A proposal to add a new Article 45a after Article 45a. A group of MPs: Vladimir Dobrosavljevic, Petar Majarevic, Zoran M. Nikolic, Dragan Jočić, Dusan Golubovic, Slavoljub Matic, Milutin Svetkovic and Petar Cvetkovic submitted an amendment proposing that a new member of 45a be added after article 45a. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The applicant for the amendment is withdrawing the amendment, which ceases to be the subject of the debate. National MP Tomislav Nikolic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17842	This doesn't make any sense anymore. Okay, maybe it makes sense. Maybe it makes sense. In fact, MPs belonging to the DSS group have submitted an amendment to Article 45, and we have already discussed it. You are now subject to amendments to be added by members of 45a, 45b, 45v, 45g, 45d, 45d, 45d, 45d, 45d, 45g. etc. Do you know the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? To what member of the bill do they submit an amendment? On Article 45? There's only one amendment they can give, and we've already discussed it. How rigorous you are, as the Secretary of the Assembly is rigorous when Serbian Radical Party MPs write amendments, as he asks us to verify the signatures on the amendments that we adopt within the legal deadline, and now adds to his parliamentary group 7 amendments in addition to Article 45 of the law. Where else is this, so now tell me it makes sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17843	The procedure for submitting amendments, the MP correctly noted, is that only one amendment can be submitted to one member of the law. To interpret is - whether adding a new member is treated as submitting amendments to the same member or to the next one; as far as I'm concerned, this is an error in the procedure; at the beginning of the search, you were obliged to point to what you consider to be a mistake in the procedure. Do you want to vote on the trust of the Rules of Procedure? (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: Yes, let it be voted for once. ) I ask the Members of Parliament to declare the violation of the Rules of Procedure in the procedure of submitting amendments. For 42, against 77, abstentions 8, 30 of the 157 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has found that there have been no violations of the Rules of Procedure, pointed out by MP Tomislav Nikolic. A group of MPs withdrew the amendment. If there was no respect for this National Assembly, it could be interpreted that MPs withdraw the amendment for these very reasons, but by respecting the intervention of the MP, we voted on the violation of the Rules of Procedure. [[You can't hear any comments from the gym.]] The proposal to add after Article 45b a new section entitled 3.1.3. Community council. A group of MPs: Vladimir Dobrosavljevic, Petar Majarevic, Zoran M. Nikolic, Dragan Jočić, Dusan Golubovica, Slavoljub Matic, Milutin Svetkovic and Petar Cvetkovic submitted an amendment proposing that a new section be added after Article 45b, whose title is 3.1.3. Community council. Do any of the authorized participants want a word? The applicant for the amendment withdraws the amendment, which ceases to be the subject of discussion in particular. The proposal to add a new article 45v after new section 3.3. A group of MPs: Vladimir Dobrosavljevic, Petar Majarevic, Zoran M. Nikolic, Dragan Jocic, Dusan Golubovica, Slavoljub Matić, Milutin Svetkovic and Petar Cvetkovic have submitted an amendment proposing that a new member of 45v be added after the new section 3.1.3. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Do any of the authorized participants want a word? No, I don't. ) Ambassador Slavoljub Matic says the applicant for the amendment has withdrawn the amendment. The applicant for the amendment withdraws the amendment, which ceases to be the subject of discussion in particular. Proposal to add a new Article 45v after Article 45v. A group of MPs: Vladimir Dobrosavljevic, Petar Majarevic, Zoran M. Nikolic, Dragan Jočić, Dusan Golubovica, Slavoljub Matic, Milutin Svetkovic and Petar Cvetkovic have submitted an amendment proposing that a new member be added after article 45v. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Do any of the authorized participants want a word? No, I don't. ) The applicant for the amendment withdraws the amendment, which ceases to be the subject of discussion in particular. The proposal to add a new Article 45d after Article 45g. A group of MPs: Vladimir Dobrosavljevic, Petar Majarevic, Zoran M. Nikolic, Dragan Jočić, Dusan Golubovica, Slavoljub Matic, Milutin Svetkovic and Petar Cvetkovic submitted an amendment proposing that a new article 45d be added after article 45g. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Do any of the authorized participants want a word? No, I don't. ) The applicant for the amendment withdraws the amendment, which ceases to be the subject of discussion in particular. Proposal to add a new Article 45d after Article 45d. A group of MPs: Vladimir Dobrosavljevic, Petar Majarevic, Zoran M. Nikolic, Dragan Jočić, Dusan Golubovica, Slavoljub Matic, Milutin Svetkovic and Petar Cvetkovic submitted an amendment proposing that a new member of 45d be added after Article 45d. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Do any of the authorized participants want a word? No, I don't. ) The applicant for the amendment withdraws the amendment, which ceases to be the subject of discussion in particular. Article 46 of the amendment was submitted by the Committee on Justice and Administration, on the basis of Article 145. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Do any of the authorized participants want a word? No, I don't. ) The government accepted the proposal of the Committee on Justice and Administration. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 94, against 35, abstentions 6, there was no vote of 20, a total of 155 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. A group of MPs: Vladimir Dobrosavljevic, Petar Majarevic, Zoran M. Nikolic, Dragan Jočić, Dusan Golubović, Slavoljub Matić, Milutin Svetkovic and Petar Cvetkovic submitted to the amendment. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. ) Amendment applicants are withdrawing the amendment, which is why it ceases to be the subject of debate. The 46th amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There's a word from MP Veroljub Arstic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17844	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, a member of the 46th draft law defines what the authorities of the city are. It means a slightly larger form of local self-government. It's the city. The committee has also submitted an amendment to this member. According to the bill, the city's authorities are the city's assembly and mayor. In the amendment tabled by the city's competent board, the city's authorities are the city's assembly, mayor and city council, and in the amendment I submitted on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, the city's authorities are - the city's assembly, the executive board, the city's administration and other bodies established by the town's statutes. It seems to me that neither the legislator nor the committee in charge had considered the conclusion of the article 49 with Article 65 on the municipal administration, i.e. the city administration. My amendment makes it quite nice to get into the legal order and determines which organs they are. So, the legislator and the committee in charge predict that there is an organ - city administration, but they do not formulate and give it as an organ in their proposal for law. What does that mean now? That means he can, but he doesn't have to. I think that such a formulation of the law is very imprecise and that the proposer is therefore very inconclusive in his proposal. As for the stubborn tenacity of mayors, I can say that the majority in this assembly, and also the legislator, and the committee in charge, seem to me, too much to watch American movies and series, and I still don't understand why they're so segregated about the executive board, which would actually be the executive body in the power of a local self-government. There were MPs here who spoke, I'm free to say, the biggest nonsense, that the collective executive couldn't function, that it couldn't determine whose responsibility, who was responsible, how and why. Now I ask the question - isn't the Serbian Government a collective executive? It's quite well known, so if our courts don't have writing materials, if the judges don't get paid, there's Mr. Justice and Local Self-Government and Minister of Finance. If in the state we have the forms of organised crime and organised crime, it's the Minister of the Interior's fault, and it's always the Prime Minister who holds such ministers. Now it's not clear to me at all -- so at a much higher and more serious level of government than the local self-government there is a collective executive body, but in local self-government, these powers are passed on to the mayor, or the president of the municipality, so the question is, who will then implement the decisions made by the city administration, the city council and the president of the municipality, or the mayor. There's no executive authority. Divided power must be in one law. That's why I think this amendment should be adopted anyway.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17845	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I am putting the amendment to article 46 to the vote. For 30, against 103 abstentions, there was no vote of 17, out of 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 46th amendment was submitted by MP Branko Ruzic. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Does any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I am putting the amendment to article 46 to the vote. For 30, against 100, the abstentions did not vote 20, out of 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Article 47 of the amendment was submitted by the Committee on Justice and Administration, on the basis of Article 145. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Do any of the authorized participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I ask the National Assembly to declare the amendment to Article 47. The Justice and Administration Committee. For 92, against 34, the abstention of three, was not voted 22, out of a total of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Members of the 47th amendment were submitted by MP Dragan Colic and MP Branko Ruzic. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Do the applicants want a word? There is a word from MP Dragan Colic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17846	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Article 47, paragraph 2 is deleted and the basic motivation to submit my amendment is to understand the concept of the local self-government body represented by the SRS. It is not possible for one person, mayor or president of the municipality to be left to manage, in an incoherent manner, as an executive body, all the jobs of the city, or the municipalities. That would mean that tomorrow the Prime Minister should perform all the functions of ministers and that we do not need ministers. This means that we do not need the National Assembly, since there are no instruments to control the work of the prime minister, or carryer of executive work. We Serbian radicals believe that the president and government must be elected in parliament. Thus, the Executive Board of the City Assembly, or the Municipality, must be elected. They must be responsible for their work to the MPs, or to the committees. The position of the SRS is that the president of the municipality or mayor cannot be the bearer of such powers to directly decide on all executive affairs of the municipality or of the city, but these must be the bodies elected by the council, and the committees must be responsible for their work. Only in this way will the basic value and the idea of local self-government be realized - that citizens, through their elected representatives, arrange their relations, do their jobs and meet their needs, control the work of the authorities who choose themselves and, depending on their assessment of how they carry out these tasks, resolve, or give confidence to those authorities. This disastrous bill of local self-government is overrun by all democratic principles. We Serbian radicals believe that the division of government must contain legislative, executive, executive and judicial, and they control each other. Due to the narcissistic understanding of democracy by DOS, the principle cannot be achieved at local level. The functions of the president of the municipality and the mayor do not contribute to the development of democracy, but a presidential system is being established, which is not good either at the state level and will certainly not be good at the level of local self-government. The president of the municipality has no one to change, the municipal government does not exist, and the president of the municipality, or mayor, is in itself a government. Where are the basic principles of democracy, if the president of the municipality, or mayor, as Minister Batic, the leader, said? You dos-mania suggest the president of the municipality, or the mayor, who is untouchable, who does not account for his work and who, which is incomprehensible, which is worst, the assembly cannot change. For all these reasons, we, Serbian radicals, are trying to point out to you all the shortcomings of the Bill on Local Self-Government. You can accept, you can not accept, you can avoid responsibility for the adoption of disastrous laws, but you will not be able to avoid responsibility for the citizens of Serbia and before history.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17847	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? There is a word from MP Zarko Obradovic, representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17848	Dear Presidency, fellow MPs, our colleague Branko Ruzic suggested on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group that the position of the 2nd member be deleted, for the reason that we believe that the scope and content of the jobs carried out in one city is so wide that it cannot be objectively fulfilled by an individual, it cannot objectively achieve all that the city's functioning requires. If hypothetically it can also be tolerated that in smaller municipalities, in municipalities with a smaller population, with a smaller structure and all that makes the content of one municipality, one in-house organ eventually covers all jobs, or to do them, we absolutely do not believe that in cities it is possible, or we believe that there should be absolutely one collective body in cities. We are, of course, conceptually in favour of the existence of the Executive Board, with all those powers that the Executive Board should have. We think that with this existing amount of work, which the law on local self-government gives to municipalities, a collective body is having a hard time doing everything it has, and what about these new powers that the law on local self-government gives to municipalities? We think that this whole scale of business, which the municipalities are now getting by law, such content, is such a scale that it will not be objectively fulfilled. I think that in Belgrade, we experience this problem in even stronger intensity than others, because in a city that has almost three million inhabitants, which has everything that Belgrade has, with 16 municipalities and with all that Belgrade means, we don't think that one person can do all those jobs that require Belgrade to function. With circumstances here, as fellow MPs, we also have Mr Bogdanovic, so perhaps he is more competent to say whether it is possible to achieve it. Personally, I don't believe that the mayor's personality, whatever her name is, and given the circumstances, there is now Mrs. Hrustanovic, can replace the entire executive board. The SPS Group and I believe that the Executive Board absolutely should exist, especially in cities. For this reason, we have as a parliamentary group and suggested that Article 2 of this Article be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17849	Wrong interpretation, MP Nenad Bogdanovic. To remind all the People's Messengers that the chairman, according to the Rules of Procedure, gives a replica, and that throwing from the bench to the Rules of Procedure is punishable and inadmissible.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17850	I'll be very brief. First, when it comes to Belgrade, if you have read this law correctly, and obviously you have not, it says that Belgrade will be governed by a special law. Therefore, I think it will be well arranged and you will be pleasantly surprised. So Belgrade will have a completely special organisation, it will have a special way of organising the authorities and that is perfectly normal. As far as Belgrade's municipalities are concerned, they will be arranged the way all municipalities in Serbia are. Therefore, there's not much to worry about, it'll be all right.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17851	The word has been made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17852	If only you knew how much Serbian citizens care for seeing you do the work they entrusted you with in the elections. Is there any other argument that we need to convince you that it is impossible for the mayor to now do the jobs that were previously done and the president of the municipality's assembly and the executive council? If you already claim that this is possible, then why (if you are moral and honest people) extend, who knows what time, this bad system. If indeed the only real solution is the mayor and the congregation of the municipality that is completely detached, why don't you tell us -- it's urgent, it's important, we go to next month's elections, to choose these bodies that are foreseen by this bill. If the current law has not been so good so far, why torture the citizens of Serbia, why not give them the opportunity to enjoy the benefits of the new law. Why? Why don't you leave one act to that Mrs. Krustanovic that she's doing all your work? The woman is capable, you trust her, you choose her and you already call her the mayor of Belgrade. Then what about the executive board? Why doesn't the mayor start doing the work provided for by this law? That's not true. Two million people, you've convinced us, you need even a special law, and now, all of a sudden, the mayor of business. It's not just Belgrade city. The new Sad is a huge city, and for Novi Sad, you didn't foresee any additional law. Whether the city has 500,000 inhabitants or two million, it's a huge city for our situation. Not to mention Nis, Kragujevac, Pristina, unfortunately, where we have no authority. Maybe one of you, who arrives in a minute from state to state, will be able to do this job alone, but then he's a member of 134. The bill of law is pointless. You're torturing us now -- an emergency emergency emergency session, you're trying to convince us that the current system, the principle of local self-government, that we're completely out of Europe, and then all of a sudden -- that's going to be worth two or three more years. Well, can we be out of Europe for two or three more years, or should we immediately (if this law is already a release of the people from tyranny, tutors, bureaucrats and centralization) this law to have an amendment to the judicial or legislative committee and to say - either accept our amendment, or elections, for the bodies established by this law, will be made within two months. Then I'll believe that you sincerely want better for the people.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17853	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 28, v. 99, a abstentioned one, did not vote 18, out of 146 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I would like to inform you that we will continue our work at 15.00 hours, by discussing the amendment to Article 47, which has been submitted by a group of MPs, and that the session of the Committee on Justice and Administration will be held at 14.45 p.m. on the ground floor.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17854	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please let us determine the quorum for the remainder of the session. I ask the People's MPs to take their seats, so we can continue our work. I figure we have a quorum and we can keep working. A group of MPs: Vladimir Dobrosavljevic, Petar Majarevic, Zoran M. Nikolic, Dragan Jočić, Dusan Golubović, Slavoljub Matić, Milutin Svetkovic and Petar Cvetkovic submitted to the amendment 47th. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I would like the representative of the amendments, MP Dusan Golubovic, to explain the amendment to us.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17855	Thank you. The DSS is withdrawing the amendment because it was regulated by the amendment of the Justice and Administration Committee. Otherwise, this is also the DSS's position, meaning that key position on the formation of municipal and city councils, and in this case higher. Namely, this is what's key. This reduces the authority of the mayor, i.e. the president of the municipalities. That's what we agreed on. That was the main goal of the DSS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17856	I thank and realize that this amendment has been withdrawn. National MP Goran Cvetanovic submitted to the 48th amendment. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here's a word from MP Goran Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17857	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 48. The bill reads: "The city's assembly consists of committees whose number is determined by the town's statutes, with their number being no more than 90". The SRS Parliament Club has tabled an amendment to amend Article 48 and to say, "The city's assembly consists of committees whose number is determined by the statute of the city, with their numbers not less than 75 or more than 100." I will now explain why the SRS parliamentary group has submitted such an amendment. First of all, Article 29 of the Law lays down the largest and smallest number of committees in the municipality. You know it's from 19 to 75 councilmen in the municipality. In any case, it should be established by law - and the smallest number of councilors in the city, as a form of local self-government, as well as the largest number. In this regard, the SRS submitted an amendment, as it would be illogical for the city to have fewer council members than the municipality. You, for example, have 110 council members in Belgrade, Nis 95, in Kragujevac 91 council members. So, they have the status of the city, and it's obvious that this proposal, where it says that the number of councilmen cannot be greater than 90, absolutely these cities cannot fit in, and apparently, the amendment of the SRS is precisely the wholeness of this solution. There is also a lot of illogicality -- let's say, in Leskovac, where I come from, we have 75 councils as a municipality, regardless of what there is likely to be justification for so many council members, because with 163,000 residents of the Leskovac municipalities is one of the largest in Serbia; and with some 144 settlements that stretch to 1,025 km square municipalities of Leskovac is one of the most divided municipalities in Serbia. If you look to say Novi Sad, who has the status of the city, has 70 council members in the City of Novi Sad Assembly, and Leskovac has 75 council members, it is absolutely a realistic solution proposed by the SRS, that everyone who has the status of the city has between 75 and 100 committee members. That way you would know exactly who has the status of the municipality and who has the status of the city. Obviously, there is a need for such solutions and you as MPs should vote in favour of such an amendment. Although unfortunately, Minister Batic is not here, I see that he has already announced in the local newspaper in Leskovac some competitions for his party, that graduate lawyers report to the Municipal Committee in Leskovac. Obviously, he realized that he could not carry out the obligation of the minister of justice and local self-government and that he needed adequate assistance from the lawyer from Leskovec and how he needed it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17858	Thank you. Is anyone else applying for this amendment? Here you go. National MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17859	The amendment to the 48th SRS parliamentary group merely wanted to remove one of the illogicalities arising from Articles 29 and 48. In fact, by defining the municipality and the number of council members in the assembly, the legislator said that the number of council members in the municipal assembly is determined by the statute of the municipality, but that it cannot be less than 19 or more than 75. When determining the city and the number of council members in the city’s assembly, in Article 48, the legislator did not provide for the lower limit of the number of councilors. He said the number of councilmen in town couldn't be more than 90. The question arises - if it is left to the city's assembly to establish by the statute the number of committees, what will happen if the city's assembly determines that the number of committees in the city is 60 and the number of committees in the municipality is 75? Why do we now single out some former municipalities as cities? Because there are a large number of inhabitants and a large number of inhabitants, it is likely that a large number of committees are going, that about (of course, it can never be evenly) the same number of citizens in each municipality chooses the same number of committees. That's why we predicted the lower limit, because if the upper limit is for the municipality of 75 councilmen, let the lower limit for the city be 75 councilmen. We think it's a small difference between 75 and 90 and that we should make it possible for the city to have up to 100 committees. If you convince us that there are cities that have a large number of inhabitants, and even the city of Belgrade has two million inhabitants, and if you respect the Constitution of Serbia, the Law on the City of Belgrade (except that the law will set the territory of the city of Belgrade) will not be able to determine the number of council members in the city's assembly. It is now clear that even in the Belgrade Assembly there will be no more than 90 council members. If there are 75 councilors in Leskovac, compare it with 90 councillors in Belgrade, something is wrong with it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17860	Thank you. Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 37, against 126 abstentions, there were no 16 votes, out of 179 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of MPs: Vladimir Dobrosavljevic, Petar Majarevic, Zoran M. Nikolic, Dragan Jočić, Dusan Golubović, Slavoljub Matić, Milutin Svetkovic and Petar Cvetkovic submitted to the amendment. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Do you take it back? I find that the representative of the applicants for the amendment has withdrawn the amendment to Article 48. National MPs Vladimir Dobrosavljevic, Petar Majarevic, Zoran M. Nikolic, Dragan Jočić, Dusan Golubovic, Slavoljub Matic, Milutin Svetkovic and Petar Cvetkovic have submitted an amendment suggesting that a new member of 48a be added after article 48a. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. And this amendment has been withdrawn. I find that the representative of the applicants for the amendment has withdrawn the amendment to Article 48. National MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic submitted to the 49th amendment. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17861	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the legislator is in Article 49. The bill provided for the municipal administration to prepare draft regulations and other acts adopted by the municipal assembly and the president of the municipality. At point 2) - executes the decisions and other acts of the municipality assembly and the president of the municipality; and all the way forward and always - the president of the municipality. With the amendment submitted by the SRS, which I am explaining, we propose that the municipal administration: 1) implement directly the regulations and other acts of the Assembly and the Executive Board; 2) carry out professional and other tasks established by the Assembly of the Municipality and the Executive Board. So, we're always affirming the executive board's regulation, and we're asking that the insiders, i.e. the powers of the president of the municipality, or mayor, to reduce. We believe that we also highlight democratic relations, the importance of democracy, because at all times the Executive Board is controlled by the councils of the municipality, or the city's assembly, and the president of the municipality and the mayor have such powers that it is virtually impossible to control them and not replace them. We believe that such great, imperial powers provide enormous opportunities to abuse such functions and all powers. One of the DOS MPs said it was a risk of democracy, that we cannot know in advance what kind of man will be elected mayor in the majority election, through the will of all citizens. Yes, but the risk must only be taken to the extent that it is justified, until it is so large that it can cause irreparable damage. Can you imagine what could happen? We have the president of the municipality's assembly elected by the councils and who corresponds to the councils in the municipality, and he invites citizens - don't pay for electricity; citizens don't pay electricity and come to huge bills; this was the case in Nis, with Zivkovic, the current police minister, and now there are daily protests in the city because there are also so many debts that no one can even pay the electricity anymore. Look, he didn't have any formal powers at the time, he was only the first among the equal, elected by the council board, and now he's become mayor, I'm sure that such a mistake won't happen again, but what he can do and what damage he can do to the city brings someone else with such powers. We therefore urge you to vote in favour of the amendment, although you have defined that we no longer have an executive board, that the Executive Board has a decisive role in managing the affairs of the city and the municipality.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17862	Does anyone else sign up for a word? MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the DOS parliamentary group, well, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17863	I asked the president of the assembly to allow me the right to reply, as the deputy Democratic Party president, Mr. Zivkovic, a person who has done the mayor's job for four years, has, among other things, won his victory in the 2000 elections, when the coalition of the Democratic Opposition of Serbia won a landslide election victory. I think the problem that at this point the local government in Nis is not a party problem, is the problem of functioning our system in which people were unable to pay electricity bills. The Democratic Party has never advocated a system in which something can be obtained, and nothing is given in return. The citizens we told about not paying bills for electricity, we told them why not to do it, and those who listened to us, are the citizens who gave us support. The problem of Nisha will be solved, and there we solved all the consequences we faced. But I can tell you that at this point, the biggest debtors on Nisa local hospital territory and all other authorities under the authority of the Republic have not settled their obligations during a period during which some other people were the republican government. I don't think we can build political careers and successes on that because they're symbols of our misfortune. Serbia's electricity industry is the biggest debtor at this point in the Republic's space and if we were to discuss responsibility, then we would have to talk on the basis of facts and arguments, and they are devastating and do not recognise party borders. I want to inform you that the local government, in co-operation with the Resort Ministry and in collaboration with the business banks, has found a way to bridge problems, without questioning the functioning of the system and not treating our society, at least in the territory of the city of Nisa, in such a way that something can be obtained and nothing can be given in return.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17864	We are continuing to discuss the amendments. National MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group, spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17865	I don't know what's going on here at this pay phone, but I do know that the biggest problem in Nis is that in other cities, the problem isn't so expressed, and everyone was having a hard time living, but in Nis, the one who's in power now, he's calling the citizens, at the time he was in opposition, not to pay the bills. Well, look now, there's another problem: what gives you the right to write off your debts for those who owe you and thus punish all those who paid on a regular basis. Why all citizens are not equal before the Constitution and the law, why they do not have the same rights and obligations. Now, I'm talking about Article 49, the municipal administration -- there are no government representatives, but how he's trying to figure out how bad this bill is, better or not -- but they should react to committees. The chairman of the Management Board of Telecom should react to Article 49 because there is something in it that needs to be removed by amendment. In Article 49, if you adopt it as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, it says that the municipal administration is preparing draft regulations and other acts adopted by the municipal assembly and the president of the municipality. Indeed, in Article 32, the assembly of municipalities, in accordance with the law, adopts regulations and other general acts, but the president of the municipality in accordance with Article 43 is not at all authorised to adopt a regulation. That right doesn't give him this law. When he doesn't have the right to make regulations, then he can't even get the municipal administration for him to prepare the regulations that he's supposed to bring and he can't bring. It's just a sign of how much you've harmonised the bill, although no more ministries have been written. This has been prepared within one ministry and is not found by someone skilled enough to read the bill and determine whether there are any illogicalities and some misunderstandings. The bill didn't come to us in one day. He's been spoken of in public for almost a year. You should have read this bill in detail. The president of the assembly doesn't lay down regulations. It's just a job if he's doing it, too. Then why do you need a congregation of municipalities? It will be a real decor, to celebrate the day of the municipality and to share some recognitions to the businessmen in the municipality. We need to remove this illogicality. You have not accepted the Executive Board, you have invented another body, but at least remove those illogicalities that are determined by reading the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17866	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 40, against 123, a abstentioned one, did not vote 15, out of 179 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of MPs: Vladimir Dobrosavljevic, Petar Majarevic, Zoran M. Nikolic, Dragan Jočić, Dusan Golubović, Slavoljub Matić, Milutin Svetkovic and Petar Cvetkovic submitted to the amendment. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I find that the representative of the applicants for the amendment has withdrawn the amendment to Article 49. The 50th Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Janjic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger Slobodan Janjic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17867	In Article 50, the legislator predicted that the municipal administration was educated as a single service, and municipal administrations for certain areas in municipalities with over 50,000 inhabitants could also be educated. With my amendment, I asked that the border be moved to 60,000 inhabitants, so that a small number of municipalities would come into a situation to create an excessive and predominant administration, which is already massive and burdening citizens. Of course, you're going the way you've been going since day one and you want to change everything in this country, even if it's three times worse than the solutions that are currently in place. I expect you to put in the procedure now this tourist resource that we have in front of the Assembly, if there is a conflict between the Municipality of Stari Grad and the Municipality of Vracar, to fight over this tourist resource, or these Cedine zebras, because now the excursions will come here instead of the zoo, to see Cedina zebra. I believe that the conflict will be severe, and I would like to see this clearly catastrianally distinguished, so that there is no conflict. I guess we're here to avoid conflict. You will vote here that white cows give white milk, black cows black, and Mr. Chad, who is so pale-yellow, did not make this black white zebra, and I say it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17868	Mr. Janjic, I warn you to return to the agenda, especially because you have two warnings.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17869	I think this is all about local self-government and these zebras in front of the Assembly, the Old Town Municipality, the Vračar municipality, it's all about the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17870	You can do that at the press conference, and now you've been told to talk about the amendment to Article 50.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17871	If you want to talk, I won't turn my back on you, and you let me expose you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17872	You turned your back on the MPs. Is anyone else applying for this amendment? The word has been made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17873	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, for the sake of the public, and also for those of you who don't read the bill or you don't know what it was like for you, to let you know why we wrote the amendment. In fact, such a member exists now in the Law on Local Self-Government, only more municipal administrations for municipalities that have more than 60,000 residents can be formed. You are now proposing that more municipal administrations can be formed for municipalities that have more than 50,000 inhabitants. There's a question of why. I would understand that the clock is going backwards, that we're going back to the 20th century, and then in the 19th century, and it's all about the pen, that there's no automatic data processing, that there's no computers, I'd realize that there's more and more municipal officials, bureaucracy and administration, but we got into the 21st century. People run giants with 15 to 20 employees in the administration, and now you, when everything is modernized and business is accelerated, is enormously accelerated -- and that's what MP Sredoje Mihajlov and I discussed, just 30 years ago what a computer was, how much room the one standing on the writing table was looking for -- now when it came to that, you say we can't reach with the municipal administration of more than 50,000 inhabitants. It could've been a month ago and 60,000 residents, and now it can't, it can't be just 50,000. What's this about? You should still be employed by the county administration. Don't you want to requalify the flag workers for the municipal administration? Who's gonna make money for those salaries? Is that why taxes, taxes, excises will grow, contributions? It's not working, it's illogical. I'd have the understanding to keep that promise you made that you'd cut the number of employees in the state administration by 20%, I'd have the understanding to go out and say - we haven't made it yet, but we'll make it. But to say that you will increase the number of employees in the administration now that none of those who produce and create have a job, there is really no understanding for that of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17874	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 45, against 119 abstentions, there were no 23 votes, out of 187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 51st Amendment were submitted by MP Branislav Blazic. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. The word is made by the MP Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17875	Ladies and gentlemen, in order to reform quickly and at an emergency session, we are passing a law that will apply in two and a half years and perhaps never. The main thing is the concept, because it's important to keep that concept that's been proposed, and now with these changes and amendments, I think the concept has changed completely. Now it turns out that in fact the promoter doesn't know what he wants, and by accepting some amendments, he's shown he won't even do what he wants. The fact that there are thousands of more important things that should be here on the agenda now and not something that will be applied in two and a half years, it doesn't matter here. It's important to rock and learn how to do something. The French saying says - the more things change, the more they're the same. This power has even changed a little bit, so the more things change, the worse it gets. The point here is to insist, and that's the concept that's changed, to know who's responsible. Now the president of the municipality is elected to be responsible, but he won't answer to anyone. He is the only one, by the ingenuity he will have, who can answer to God and no one else. And in article 51, he's appointed head of the board. Well, that chief of administration's answering to him, and since he's not answering to anyone, the head of the board is absolutely not answering to anyone. We have heard here an explanation from the promoter that this has already been applied in some countries, including Romania and Macedonia. If we look up to Romania, then we'll get far. In Romania, it is so good that now Nikolai Ceausescu, who participates in the elections, would win convincingly. So, the point is, gentlemen, that every government corrupts, and absolute power absolutely corrupts. It is not good to give this much authority to one man, not because of him and not because of this municipality that he will lead. Therefore, what we have proposed in Article 51, when we already have a secretary elected by the municipal assembly on the proposal of the president of the municipality, who is now an administrative person, but as a function of exchange, it would be logical for him to carry out these affairs as management of the administration. It doesn't make sense that now there's another man who absolutely won't answer to anyone and absolutely won't be replaceable.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17876	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 45, against 110, the abstentions were not voted 28 out of 183 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 51st Amendment were submitted by MP Istvan Ispanovic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. National MP Istvan Ispanovich withdraws the amendment to Article 51. National MP Radojko Petric submitted to the 51st amendment. The Government and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Committee on Justice and Administration has adopted this amendment. Whether the applicant of the amendment wants a word. Please, there is a word from MP Radojko Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17877	On behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary club, I have submitted an amendment to Article 51, with a proposal to supplement it in such a way as to place a person without an examination for work in the authorities of the state administration but for up to six months. In practice, the problem arises that, immediately after the elections, such a profile of the staff that meets the high professional and experience criteria is provided. In this case, it was completed by the Faculty of Law, five years of work in the profession and passed the exam for work in the authorities of the state administration. As an example, it could serve after the September 2000 local elections. For the secretaries of the municipalities' congregations, which are also secretaries of municipal administrations and which are now performing the tasks provided for by this law for the mayors of municipal administrations, almost the same conditions have been laid down in terms of school preparation, work experience and this submitted exam for work in the authorities of the state administration. Due to the inability to provide conditions for secretaries in a few dozen municipalities, I note - in a few dozen municipalities, persons who did not have a professional exam to work in the state administration have been appointed. With specific data available by the Department of Justice and local self-government. It is therefore necessary to adopt the amendment and to allow the possibility for the officials of the municipal administrations to be appointed by persons who have completed the Faculty of Law, five years of experience in the profession, but also without a professional examination, by having to pass the exam within six months, in fact to be left to prepare and pass that exam, in order to be able to be permanently deployed. The adoption of the amendments will regulate the legal way in which many frequent cases are dealt with which, in the future, will inevitably appear in practice. It is better to show pragmatism in lawmaking than in the beginning to create almost certain and inevitable conditions for its breach in practice. The government replied not to accept the amendment because the Law on State Administration does not provide for the possibility of setting up acting officers. This is no convincing reason, because it is the laws of the same legal force and therefore I do not know why this law is bound to it. On the other hand, the Committee on Justice and Administration, as the parent board, whose chairman, Professor Hiber, has accepted this amendment, and I expect you, too, that MPs accept this amendment by a large majority. In the same sense, I have submitted an amendment to Article 52. The proposal for this law, which refers to the appointment of a management chief in municipalities with over 50,000 inhabitants, if the municipality has organised a administration in several special administrations. I will not answer for the word for the reasons of this amendment, because it is the exact same and I believe that they are convincing and pragmatic reasons for us to accept both amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17878	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Please, there is a word from MP Zeljo Huric, deputy president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17879	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, if we look at the complexity and scope of the affairs carried out by the municipal administration, we will conclude that people who do this work must have, among other things, and passed the exam to work in the authorities of the state administration. Then how do you let a man who should be first, in front of all of them, not have one such exam passed? For these reasons, this amendment is unacceptable to us, and on the other hand, it seems to us that by accepting something like this we are opening up a space for extending those manipulations that were otherwise characteristic in the previous period. In fact, the president of the municipality himself, based on this defined professional capacity of the head of the administration, will be able to appoint a person who has not passed a professional exam. This means that within six months, that same person can pass a professional exam, but, of course, it will be mandatory to perform the tasks and to do what the president of the municipality tells him to do, or "play as he plays". For that reason, and to prevent these manipulations, we will vote against this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17880	Thank you. National MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the parliamentary group, spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17881	There should be a measure here. It cannot be said that during the past period there have been abuses, that the president of the municipality or the president of the assembly has set up a face without exams, because the president of the municipality had no jurisdiction within the field of employment, and secondly, he did not appoint anyone, but they were all elected by competition. This time there will be abuses, now, but there is a need to think a little bit about the amendment of MP Petric, because we are thinking about small municipalities, of municipalities that have always been cobbled with human beings. Let's think about the municipalities that have always cobbled with the staff, municipalities where there are not enough persons with a professional exam, or a test for working in state authorities. Think about the situation, for example, that the president of the municipality, who is now setting it all up, and we're going to talk about it in Article 52, suggests someone, and this one refuses and comes to some vacuum, where there is no chief of administration; and why can't he be bridged by a performer or someone who doesn't have that expert exam? Don't forget, in many municipalities, in underdeveloped environments, where frames don't have much motive to stay, you'll find it hard to find people who will meet all the requirements of this bill. Of course, as a final solution, there is no need to think about it. Then why are the exams in place? But, as a temporary solution, as a bridge to the problem, with some limited time, that should be considered. This is where the question arises - will the Vojvodina exam apply? You didn't say if it was the state exams now. Will someone be able to work in Black Grass with the exam he passed in Vojvodina, on your omnibus? Or will the one from the Black Grass be able to confess to him the exam he passed and not pass in the territory of the Duke?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17882	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? He has the floor of MP Branislav Ivkovic, president of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17883	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the essence of this amendment is to accept reality, and you, when you came to the local elections on September 24th in a number of congregations to power, you set up secretaries who didn't have a judicial exam. It is logical to expect, especially in small areas, candidates for municipal secretaries who do not have a judicial exam to appear. And why is it a problem to set a six-month deadline in such a situation, to finally strengthen competition, to pass a judicial exam? It's simply accepting reality, especially in smaller environments.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17884	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) I am putting the amendments to article 51, which was submitted by MP Radojko Petric. For 53, against 96, the two abstentions, were not voted 29, a total of 180 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 52nd amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? The word is made by MP Vitomir Plužarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17885	Ladies and gentlemen, we have submitted an amendment to Article 52 of this Law that regulates that several municipal administrations can be educated in municipalities with over 50,000 inhabitants. It is proposed that those administrations be managed by the Chiefs (Art. 50th and 51st.). This legislative project envisions new names such as: manager, architect, speaker of the assembly, municipality president and management chief. We don't think this unsub has any quality positions in this place. He is tasked with replacing the secretary, and the secretary is nowhere, or he is regulated as invisible. Amendment to Article 52. - Article 52 is amended and reads: "In terms of terms and conditions, as well as the duration and termination of the term of office, the Secretary of the Authority of the Municipal Administration shall be subject to the provisions of this law relating to the Secretary of the Assembly of the Municipality. Exceptionally, the secretary of the municipal administration's authority may be appointed a person who has not graduated from law school, but has a suitable high professional capacity, compared to the workaround of the body for which he is appointed. If a person who does not comply with the conditions laid down by this law is appointed as the secretary of the municipal administration, the ministry responsible for the affairs of local self-government will warn the municipality. If the municipality's assembly fails to annul an act of appointment, within a month of receiving the alert, the act will be annulled by the ministry responsible for the affairs of local self-government. "The amendment is in line with the understanding of the concept of local self-government authorities and their competences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17886	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? There is a word from MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group. [[Zagor in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17887	What are you complaining about? Have you heard of a work celebration of the holidays? You didn't? Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is about to become the Chief of State. I'll have those stories about the chief again - don't, Commissioner, when I beg you. So look at the example of a municipality that has 200,000 inhabitants. Under Article 50, municipal administration will be educated, four municipal administrations will be educated. He will be one chief of staff and then the head of all these municipal administrations, in all these administrations, will be organisational units, whose leaders will be appointed by the chief. The authorities will be all the chiefs to the commissioner. What is it and how do you think you are doing and why you repeat, in Article 53(1), Article 43 paragraph 1 point 8) - that the head of the municipality is appointed by the mayor, i.e. the head of the municipality and the head of the administration of certain areas, I do not know. But it's obvious that they're going to multiply and power up the administration. Now, whoever you're planning to hire from your political party, from the parties who vote to pass some law, from the masculine, from another village, there's room for all of them here. With this bill, you will have as many jobs as you want -- none will be available to all citizens. It'll just be a setup. Why - will it be repacked, when the power is changed, that hundreds of thousands of employees know that by changing power, they lose their jobs because someone else will come and set up other people? And why don't you have professional people in the municipalities who'll do their job, no matter who's in power? Why should the commissioners, why should the secretaries of the committee, why should political commissioners set up in municipalities and those whose only condition is to work, their expertise, their knowledge, what citizens most value in the public authorities? Knowledge and expertise, efficiency in doing jobs, legality in work. This will turn into a party state. Fortunately, since you're not in agreement, that's how you're going to set it up. She'll be light, she'll be here for everything and everything. All your relationships in each individual municipality will be broken here in the Assembly during the adoption of such important laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17888	I'm warning you, time's over.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17889	You should have warned me, I can't see from here. Everything here will be decided and we will wait for two or three hours - if a parliamentary group has agreed to accept an amendment, which is why it has become the head of the municipal administration, for example. in Kragujevac, not to say a place less, so people get angry.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17890	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 47, against 95, the abstentioned were not voted 39, a total of 181 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 52nd amendment was submitted by MP Radojko Petric. The government and the Legislative Committee did not accept, and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He doesn't want to. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 40, against 98, a abstentioned one, did not vote 39, out of 178 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 53rd Amendment was submitted by MP Lazar Marjanski. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. The applicant for the amendment is not present. National MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group, spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17891	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, at the time you were in opposition, I listened, and I talked myself out, talking about how it was wrong for the government to be in the hands of one man, and I welcomed you, who spoke of it most, to get into the hands of the bill establishing that system. According to you, the president of the municipality is appointed by the head of the municipal administration, the head of the municipal administration is appointed by the heads of the organisational units; the head of staff and the work of the administration corresponds to the president of the municipality, and the president of the municipality does not answer to anyone; one above all in the municipality, who is not responsible for his work to anyone. You may rightly tell me that in some situations some have the right to submit a motion for his impeachment, but he does not answer to anyone for his work. He had the right so far to propose that someone be suspended from work, that someone lose their job, but that's what the procedure was about, so he might as well be wrong. Now, the Chief is responsible for his work to the president of the municipality, and there is no law. Well, if this one is not in the mood today, the chief is no longer at work; if the coalition between coalition partners is broken, the captain is no longer at work; if a new coalition is created, the next day a new chief is coming. It all depends on the president of the municipality. It bothered you when everything in the state depended on the president of the state, with the right. Throwing it out of the O.R. Who listened as I spoke knows if it bothered us. Why did you transfer it to the micro court now, why did you transfer what was wrong in the state to the municipality? Do you want me to be wrong in the community? It can't work when the government is in the hands of a man. Why not control the assembly of the municipality, why the executive body, why not let the body you have set up under the amendments control the work of the municipal administration, but the chief, and the president of the municipality. You're bringing us back to a time when there were few people who had some basic qualifications to do state affairs in local self-government. Now there's a lot of people like that. Now it's a completely different situation. If you establish the principle of responsibility, it cannot be determined by one man, never and nowhere. (President: Time. Even before courts, it is not one individual who determines whether someone is as guilty as it would be, for example, the fault of losing a job. You need to be consistent. You should see what you really want with this bill -- to construct some small municipal gods. (President: I warn you of an excessive amount of time. I don't see anything from here. It's not possible in the coalition at all. Just because everyone in the future is going to have to make coalitions, predict that it works as a collective organ, not as incoherent.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17892	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 44, against 100, the abstentions were not voted 34, out of 178 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by the group members: Vladimir Dobrosavljevic, Petar Majarevic, Zoran M. Nikolic, Dragan Jočić, Dusan Golubović, Slavoljub Matić, Milutin Svetkovic and Petar Cvetkovic. The representative of the applicant for the amendment withdrew the amendment to Article 53. The amendment was submitted by MP Išpanovich Istvan. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. National MP Ispanovich Istvan withdrew the amendment. I find the amendment to Article 53 has been withdrawn. The 53rd amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Nenad Bogdanovic, Milena Milosevic, Milan Markovic and Dragan Pavlovic. The government has accepted this amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does a representative of the applicants of the amendment want a word? The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17893	Mrs. Micic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will remind you that we will discuss Article 53. The Law on Local Self-Government, which determines the process of electing the mayor of the municipal administration. We were not satisfied with this proposed legal solution, since it completely excluded the function of the congregation committee. We want that in the time ahead, during the transition, people who are also elected to the elections can influence that kind of human policy. We have therefore proposed by amendment that the president of the municipality be promoted as an authorised proposing and that the right to vote be transferred to the assembly of the municipalities, or to the committees, which I think avoids all the even bad consequences that might arise as a result of some kind of local will. I think this is logical and that the Assembly should support it without a problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17894	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 97, against 37, two abstentions, were not voted 38, out of 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. National MP Stjevan Kesjejic submitted to the 54th amendment. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. The amendmentr wants a word. The word is made by MP Stevan Kesejić.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17895	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS parliamentary group has tabled an amendment to Article 54, and we could, and we have also submitted, of course, objections and amendments to this whole chapter concerning municipal administrations. This entire chapter is unacceptable, since it fully derogates the congregation of the municipalities, councils, and the executive board of the congregation. DOS seemed to have taken Aladdin's magic lamp into his hands, rubed it, and Cardellus and the Batinashi came out of it. This article in 54 tells us that the head of his work corresponds to the president of the municipality, which implies that these two men are untouchable in the congregation of the municipality. They can negotiate whatever they want and pass by the Executive Board and the Assembly to make any decisions and transfer it to the authorities of the administration. They can agree on everything that is important and concerning not local self-government, but on the management of a certain municipality or a city, and on the recommendation of the ruling majority, or government that is currently current. That's why I'm proposing to the MPs of the DOS majority that they realize that they won't always be in the majority, that they won't be in power and that they keep making sure that those batinans who came out of Aladin's lamp can be smitten with that tolag and on the same ones who propose these kind of criminal laws. The committees would be statistical in this case, so local self-government would be completely pointless. The Executive Board is not mentioned here at all, and the Chief is not in charge of him, nor is anyone in control of him, except the President of the Assembly or of the Mayor. Such examples and practices as you propose by this law are in cities where you are now in power. Probably taught by such a practice and you propose such laws, because in certain cities and municipalities, small gods have already begun to do what this law provides, which is that money is taken from the budget into their pockets, whenever and as long as it wants, and that the minister of justice and local self-reaction is not responding at all. This, of course, happened in Somboro, where they took more than 10 million dinars from the budget, the procedure was launched, and then it stopped, because it was a senior official of the Democratic Party... (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. ....................................................................................................... and the New Democracy officials. And, of course, you want to translate your behavior into this law and then do it according to your will, not punishing the laws you want to adopt today. Therefore, the SRS considers that this Article 54 would have to be changed and, in accordance with its understanding.... (President: Four minutes. )......................................................................................................... The local self-government, reads: "The Act on the Organisation of the Municipal Administration brings the Assembly of the Municipality. In the municipal administration of education as a single body, internal organisational units are educated, in line with the type and scope of tasks the body performs." The Act on Internal Organisation and Systematization and Jobs and Tasks in the Municipal Administration should be brought with the consent of the Executive Board, not the Chief... (President: Mr. Kesajic, four minutes and 50 seconds is, the debate on amendments is three minutes. )......................................................................................................... and the president of the municipality.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17896	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) I am putting the amendment to article 54 on the vote. For 35, against 99, two abstentions, 29, a total of 165 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of MPs: Vladimir Dobrosavljevic, Petar Majarevic, Zoran M. Nikolic, Dragan Jočić, Dusan Golubović, Slavoljub Matić, Milutin Svetkovic and Petar Cvetkovic submitted to the 54th amendment. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Do the applicants want a word? The amendment shall be withdrawn by the applicant of the amendment, and the amendment shall cease to be subject to discussion in particular. Members of the 54th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Nenad Bogdanovic, Milena Milosevic, Milan Markovic and Dragan Pavlovic. The government has accepted this amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? National MP Cedomir Jovanovic, as the applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17897	Mrs. Komic, the Honored Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, is in fact an amendment that is being corrected in the direction in which Article 53's correction has already been made. As far as the Community and the Commissioners' relations are concerned, I think it's logical that this amendment is supported, given that we've already done something like this in the previous case.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17898	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. In 1994, against 26, the three abstentions, had not voted 38, of the 161 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment to the 54th group of MPs. A group of MPs: Vladimir Dobrosavljevic, Petar Majarevic, Zoran M. Nikolic, Dragan Jočić, Dusan Golubović, Slavoljub Matic, Milutin Svetković and Petar Cvetkovic and National MP Zivko Selaković submitted to the 55th amendment. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Do any of the applicants of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Petar Hungarian.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17899	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is a single body that is now sticking out in this bill, and since we have adopted the variant that there are three bodies in the municipality's assembly, which is the president of the municipality, of the municipality and of the municipal council, as well as certain authorities of the municipal council that predict control over the administration. This intelligence that's provided here for the architect, means the jobs that the architect does and his appointments are, I think, in colluding with what we've already adopted. I don't think there's any need especially for them. In addition, someone who is a member of the municipal council can run these things and the president of the municipality proposes a municipal council, so that according to this and its powers helps the president of the municipality. I think it's quite unnecessary for him to remain a member. And in some municipalities, even with a population of 50,000, the bill itself provides, meaning Article 50, that it is possible to organise a special unit of municipal administration for such matters. I suggest, in order to bring it together, that's what you have to say, that it suggests the minister to withdraw it, that the municipality chooses it. We don't know what to do. [[Zagor in the O.R.]] Okay, well, if the board's gonna do that, then in that case, we're gonna withdraw the amendment. We're withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17900	The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17901	Mrs. Komic, respected colleagues, this is about important functions of the city's architect and I think there is no reason why the principle of his election differs from the principle of choice, let's say, the head of the administration, and therefore we suggest that this amendment be withdrawn and that the Committee on Justice and Administration aligns this member of the law with the previous amendments, because this is the result of the changes that have been previously established. So this amendment would be good to withdraw, and then procedurally edit it the way we did, I mean by Article 45.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17902	The word has been made by MP Dejan Mihajlov, president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17903	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we agree that this is the way to be arranged, and in this direction all our objections have been made that the essential authority in this case is transferred to the assembly of the municipality, not to the president of the municipality. The amendment we submitted went in the direction of taking away one part of the government to the president of the municipality, which by proposing the city architect, as well as later the city manager, would have too much in his hand to open the door to corruption, because we all know what kind of corruption the government, especially in these areas, in urban and construction and giving these ingenuity to one man, would be too dangerous at this point. That's why we suggested erasing. Since there has been a change in the concept that was in this law, that a good part of the authority is being transferred to the assembly itself, this change is also valid, meaning that the Assembly itself appoints both the city architect and the city manager, that it has greater control by the assembly and greater obligations and that those who, after all, directly elected by the citizens, participate in this. In this direction, Mr. Hungaryevic and we, as legislators, withdrew this amendment, so that later in the process through the Committee it would simply be complemented and to get a complete, consistent concept in relation to these amendments that we have adopted so far, having a concept where it will still be the assembly that will be the most important ingenuity.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17904	I find that the applicant of this amendment has withdrawn the amendment. Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17905	Of course, I could also object to the withdrawal of amendments during the debate. Namely, the applicant of the amendment is no longer even the owner of the amendment; the owners of the amendment are MPs and we can only make our own decisions available to him, but may it be that you can withdraw the amendment now during the debate. The explanation given by the president of the DOS parliamentary group is, in fact, the right violation of the Rules of Procedure that you must no longer allow. In fact, the main architect of the municipality is something that is treated only by Article 55. The bill doesn't even mention it anymore, it's got nothing to do with it, and it's got nothing to do with it. No committee can now, no government can, no one can submit an amendment to Article 55 and say that the amendment is the result of previously adopted amendments to some other members. There's nothing to get along with. No member we have changed so far has produced a change of members on the main architect of the municipality, not a single member, not a single amendment. And by the end of the bill, no amendments, any amendments, will be made, will produce a change of article 55 concerning the main architect of the municipality, especially the one who appoints the chief architect. It can't: either it will remain the main architect of the municipality appointed by the president of the municipality or we will accept your amendment to delete the chapter on the main architect of the municipality. And why wouldn't that be? If he doesn't, then I'll ask the motionary's representative, if the chief architect is no longer appointed by the president of the municipality, what will it do to you? It was important, I understand, the concept of the law was that the president of the municipality was responsible for everything. Hence, the manager, the architect, sets up the chiefs, and that is again a concept, which is destroyed by the fact that the assembly chooses the captain; it is destroyed by the fact that the president of the municipality does not appoint the chief architect; you will have to declare yourself to the manager; and then why would you not accept that with the act, it is a pity that you have rejected our amendment to Article 54, which brings the municipality, determines that there is a major architecture of the municipality and that it is chosen in the same way as all the other officials of the municipal administration. This isn't how it works. You can, of course, say, as when you have adopted amendments to the Rules of Procedure, and even members who have not been changed at all in the Rules of Procedure, you can do anything, but one day all of these will come to the review in front of people who will exclusively be on the legal side watching what you did and will not get carried out, they will not be run by politics. You cannot: either this amendment will be accepted or there will be no more amendments to Article 55. It's simply not possible according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17906	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) Since this amendment was tabled in the same text, and a group of MPs withdrew the amendment, the amendment in the same text was submitted by MP Zivko Selakovic, and the amendment must be voted on. I ask the MPs to declare the amendment to Article 55, which was submitted by MP Zivko Selakovic. For 37, against 84, with four abstentions, the vote was not 43, a total of 168 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment to Article 55. National MP Miroljub Veljkovic submitted to the 55th amendment. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, he's not there. ( b) Does any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) I am putting the amendments to the 55th MEP Miroljub Veljkovic. For 39, against 95, the abstentioned were not voted 37, a total of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Slobodan Pavlovic submitted to the 55th amendment. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Slobodan Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17907	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the colleagues who threw something away while I was passing by, I'll answer when I get back and don't want to abuse the pay phone. As for what I was about to say, let me do it in the next one. So on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I proposed an amendment to Article 55. The Law on Local Self-Government, which differs essentially from what a group of DSS MPs have proposed and what a fellow MP from the Serbian Radical Party has proposed, where they have proposed, however, from the Party of the Serbian Unity, to delete Article 55, and I ask that the Minister also pay attention to what I say. So I didn't propose to change or delete. I suggested in Article 55 that instead of "the chief architect", it says: in the municipal administration, we can set up the main "urbanist" of the municipality, and then in point 2) and point 3) I added powers within the work of the main urbanist and in position 2. I proposed that the main urbanist be appointed by the Executive Board of the Assembly of the Municipality, i.e. the Assembly of the Municipality, as you have now arranged. The reasons why I suggested that instead of the main architect of the municipality, the institution of the main urbanist has many, and all those who deal with it professionally, and often amateurally, know the reasons. I'll just list six reasons that seem important to me right now. First of all, everyone knows, and the legislator should also propose laws, the dniability of local self-government units and the authorities of local self-government units exist in the area of urbanism and do not exist at all in the area of architecture. This is confirmed by the full text of the Law on Local Self-Government, in particular Article 19, where the original competences of the municipality and Article 32 have been established where the responsibilities of the Assembly of the Municipality have been established. Nowhere in the text of the law is the term architecture and not applied anymore. The team has been surprised by the response of the Government of the Republic of Serbia (for which I do not really have the words to characterize it), which is actually non-shallantly without comment, so that these jobs can be done in the way that it is proposed, which is completely pointless. Secondly, architecture is basically a matter of investors, and urbanism and urban policy are generally of general interest and are important to local self-government and the unit of local self-government, its authorities and citizens in general. Third, all of what it says in the current article 55th is that it is still the authority of the main urbanist, not the chief architect.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17908	I remind you that the debate on amendments lasts three minutes per participant in the debate, and now it's the fourth minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17909	I'll be done in a minute. Urban institutions, construction directors, land management, public utility, public enterprises, public enterprises, and I could count by morning. It's all someone's got to put a buckle on and coordinate. It's not the chief architect who does it. It's the chief urbanist. All those who know this thing nod their heads out of the O.R. The urbanist deals with continents, including new ones in existing buildings, etc. I have prepared expertise, I have no time for this and I ask Mr. Minister (and this has nothing to do with the party, nor with politics, nor with me personally, with one concept and with an objective state of science and technique) to accept the amendment proposal and to introduce the main urbanist instead of the chief architect, with the explanation that I have given.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17910	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 34, against 90, the abstention of four, was not voted 37, out of 165 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Sinisa Mitrovic submitted to the 55th amendment. The Government, the Committee on Justice and Administration and the Committee on Environmental Protection have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Member of the 55th Amendment was submitted by MP Išpanovich Istvan. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The applicant withdraws the amendment and thus the amendment ceases to be the subject of discussion in particular. Members of the 56th Amendment were submitted by MP Milos Lukic, a group of MPs: Vladimir Dobrosavljevic, Petar Majarevic, Zoran M. Nikolic, Dragan Jočić, Dusan Golubović, Slavoljub Matić, Milutin Svetkovic and Petar Cvetkovic and National MP Nebojsa Jović. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Nebojsa Jovic first answered the word, and then MP Milos Lukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17911	Honorable MPs, a discussion in principle and the current course of discussion in particular unequivocally confirms that the proposed law on local self-government is more of a declarative formal democratic character than it provides essentially some new solutions for better functioning of local self-government. Decisions are offered to which citizens, i.e. the committees, are almost completely losing their ability to be a subject of local decision-making. Some new institutes are being introduced that are foreseen in developed local self-governments, self-governments in Europe, and not in all countries. One of these institutes is provided for in Article 56. The bill, which reads: "The status of the municipality can provide for the use of municipal manager services to do the work of the municipality. The conditions and the way in which the manager services are used are determined by a contract concluded by the president of the municipality with the municipal manager." On behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to delete the article in 56, for the reason it is of purely academic character, which shows that there was no security in the proposal regarding the definition. It seems to me that the possibility of using the municipal manager's services is only to meet the demands of the Council of Europe, rather than essentially offering the right solution that is in line with the functioning and implementation of the local self-government system in our terms. The question is, what are the criteria for setting up a municipal manager? The most discussionable is, which is why we are asking for the removal of Article 56, which is why the terms and conditions of use of the manager's services are determined by a contract between the president of the municipality and the municipal manager, as stated in the bill. So too many powers are given to the president of the municipality, which establishes a presidential system at local level, with great powers and almost no obligations towards citizens. If the president of the municipality has such obligations to the citizens, I wonder who the municipal manager will answer to. What if he does something against the law if he proposes a project that does not contribute to economic development or investment that has no economic justification? So, the municipal manager (under the Bill of Law) corresponds to the president of the municipality; and the position of the president of the municipality is further determined by the manner of his recall, which is due to the complicated procedure and the large number of citizens who are to be made known about the change, almost impossible, thus creating conditions for the conduct of speculative affairs between the president of the municipality and the municipal manager. In the end, another reason why I'm asking you to delete Article 56. - this is that the establishment of a municipal administration as a single service managed by the chief, and within the municipal administration, organisational units are formed for the performance of related administrative, professional and other tasks. If we have made a decision to form cabinets, municipalally larger, so there is a president of the municipal assembly, secretary, chiefs of the organisational units, this would result in duplication or overlapping of affairs, which is not in the interest of the functioning of local self-government. For all things forward, Article 56 should be deleted because it is inapplicable, as well as a whole law that will probably never come into force, as the provision of this law will be said to apply from the implementation of the next regular elections for the councils of local self-government units. I'm asking a question here -- if there's an emergency election, is this law going to be applied, and it's probably going to be an emergency election, whether someone wants it or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17912	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Milos Lukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17913	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I would firstly like to remove the dilemma about the amendment to Article 43, which I submitted on behalf of the Serbian Unity Party, because this amendment has been practically accepted, however, as if someone is not responsible for saying it is. So, we've suggested erasing Item 6 in Article 43, which was later accepted by the government, as well as by the committees in charge. Well, let's get rid of that confusion. As for Article 56, we in the Serbian Unity Party, as well as the number of amendments that have been submitted so far, are going to make one additional contribution to this law to the better regulation of this area. When it comes to the municipal thinking manager in the Serbian Unity Party, they're going the next way -- we're not against hiring the manager, and our goal is not to delete this function at all. However, we believe that by widely interpreting this regulation it turns out that the municipal manager of the contract with the president of the municipality is elected for four years for all areas needed by one municipality. Our view is that the president of the municipality, i.e. the municipal authority that is now extended and larger, should and must hire managers from different areas, so that, during one term, he could hire more people from different areas, such as agriculture, high-tech technologies, energy, industry, etc. So that would be regulated by contracts, and after the end of the job, that municipality would not have an obligation to this manager. On the other hand, there is a question of the content of the contract - if it is already said to be regulated by the contract, it should also be said what the contract should contain, given that we are in the Balkans and that it is immediately interpreted here in another direction, that this manager will serve the president of the municipality to do dirty work, those jobs that are not in accordance with the law. Our position is that the president of the municipality should be the first manager in the municipality, that the rest of municipal leadership should also behave in the spirit of management, work for his municipality, attract investment. As a result, we do not see the reasons for the special arrangement of the area of involvement of the municipal manager. We believe that a member of 43rd, under the authority of the president of the municipality, is quite enough of the rights given to the president to hire a manager, so we believe that this member, as well as a member of 57, is not required in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17914	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. Please, there is a word from the representatives of the amendments, Mr Slavoljub Matic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17915	The MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia will withdraw this amendment with a desire to reach an agreement, which we already have with parliamentary groups and a resolute ministry, in a different way, compared to what was proposed by the Bill on Local Self-Government, the municipal manager, i.e. On a proposal from the president of the municipality, the municipality shall elect the manager. It is in our role to limit the enormous power of the future president of the municipality, which was so under the bill; however, we have managed to achieve one part of our goal, at least when it comes to the Law on Local Self-Government. So we withdraw this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17916	I find that MP Slavoljub Matic, on behalf of a group of MPs, withdrew the amendment to Article 56, but the amendment remained, in the same text, of Milos Lukic and Nebojsa Jovic. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 30, against 100, three abstentions, 35 did not vote, out of 168 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposed amendment. The 56th Amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Vujic. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He's not here. ) Here you are, the word has been made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17917	We'll clear that up now. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, by carefully reading the amendments, which was submitted by MP Bozidar Vujic on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group, you understand that we are in favour of erasing Article 56. It's a bill of law. As with several amendments before that, (but I did not respond, and now I would like to because the minister acted as I was passing it) we also took advantage of the opportunity to develop, by amendment to Article 57, the idea we started in Article 56. It is the conduct of proceedings before the authorities of the administration, the requirements for exemption, because the law did not deal with it. I do not accept that the legislator has the right to refuse the amendment in words - that the amendment does not apply to a member of the law he treats. If we write - Article 56 is changed and it is, then it is an amendment to the bill, and we have the right to submit it and it must be made clear by the legislator, not by saying - does not apply to a member of the law that I have proposed under number 56. By changing the full text of article 56, we ask that your article be deleted in 56 and that you give us objections to our article 56. It's one business opportunity that we always want to use, especially when we find that the bill promoter missed one piece of matter to regulate. Indeed, it is not regulated, you will also see it in our amendment to Article 57, first that the law is applied in the procedure before the authorities of the administration, and then who solves in complaints; if the complaint in the affairs of the municipality was with us, it was the executive committee; and now you do not have this executive board, but indeed, after all these amendments, the chairman of the Justice and Administration Committee should sit down and do his part of the work. In many members of the law, it would now be necessary, in order to accept some amendments, to make corrections in order to make everything clear and precise. So we don't need a municipal manager. We think the municipal manager is the president of the municipality. You've given him so much authority. We may also need a municipal broker, we may need a lot of things in the community, but I'm surprised that all of you who predicted it, and the urbanist, and the chiefs of the service and the head of the administration, very broadly accepted our suggestions and suggested that they be chosen by the congregation - that you don't touch it in the function of the general manager of the municipality. Only the chief manager remains to have a direct... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... Here, I'm finishing up, having direct contact and a direct contract with the president of the municipality. You don't let a congregation of municipalities and elected council members get mixed up here. It's a job to do business, so to speak. And you left it to the president of the municipality. You're the general manager of the municipality, actually, the president of the municipality. This will be just a person who, on his behalf, will do some of the jobs. I'm really interested in why the bill promoter didn't list what the municipal manager would do.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17918	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? The word is from Mr Vladan Batic, the minister of justice and local self-government.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17919	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Government has not accepted any of the proposed amendments, as the Government considers it necessary to retain the institution of the municipal manager, as well as the municipal architects, and this amendment, which we specifically have on the agenda, concerns one other matter that may be the subject of debate. However, not for this member, because I repeat, we want to keep that institution. In the principle debate, one of the honourable MPs said with a single dose of malignancy that this law, among other things, has the characteristics of some scientific and entertainment character, and that the confirmation of this scientific dimension of the law is the proposal of the institution of the municipal manager. The malignancy went further, so it was said that for the municipal manager, they were like crazy citizens of certain cities in the Republic of Serbia, with lists of these cities. As for this work, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, for those who think so, I must inform you that we live in Europe, in the 21st century and that we need as bread dried up, and for Meroshina, Bolec, Batocino, Zajecar and Jagodina, and city architects, and municipal architects, and municipal manager. For if it is not so, certain cities, and among other things the Krushevac, will increasingly be reminded of the time of the king Lazarus' time.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17920	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 36, against 108, the abstentions were not voted 29, out of 173 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 57th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Milos Lukic, a group of MPs Vladimir Dobrosavljevic, Petar Majarevic, Zoran Nikolic, Dragan Jočić, Dusan Golubović, Slavoljub Matic, Milutin Svetkovic and Petar Cvetkovic and MP Dragan Jovanovic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. National MP Dragan Jovanovic called for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17921	Dear People's MPs, the Honorable Presidency, I have submitted an amendment to Article 57 which speaks of the functions of the municipal manager and I have suggested that these functions be deleted. I did in the principle debate speak against the municipal manager, believing that there are many officials, commissioners, larger, different presidents, and that it is enough to develop jobs in the municipality. I thought it was much more important to introduce the function of a municipal magician, given the financing of municipalities. But everyone has a right to make mistakes, so do I. I mentioned a number of cities, and from these cities I received reactions from citizens of these cities, and Minister Batic reacted negatively. One citizen says, "Employee Jovanovic, it is amazing how much you lack the sense of modernising municipal self-government has shown speaking in your discussion against the function of the municipal manager. Didn't you understand that the new authorities need professional municipal managers, who would professionally take a commission for various permits, construction and others, to sell locations, to issue business space, to issue concessions for municipal services, etc." One citizen from Aryl says, "Mr. MP, speaking in the principle of local self-government law in a negative context, you mentioned the need for Ariel, under the new law, to choose a municipal manager. You may be right about economic and municipal services, because we are already in Europe, but you are wrong about cultural and entertainment life. He's with us at quite a low level, so the municipal manager would be required to bring singers and singers, to organize horse racing, to secure a symphony orchestra concert, to bring the opera, to prepare quickly for the soon entry into Europe. "I apologize to the citizens of Aryl and Meroshina, and I also mentioned to Meroshina, I received the following letter: "Dear Mr. MP, we address you because in your discussion, when you spoke about the municipal manager, we do not need a municipal manager in Meroshina. What we're trying to tell you is that you're making a lot of mistakes, because we have a football club that can't get into a higher rank, so maybe that manager could help us buy points and get into a higher rank. "As a MP, I really respect the wishes and will of the citizens, and I think I have made a mistake, so I am withdrawing my amendment - to delete the municipal manager. That is what Minister Batic has convinced me, speaking of the need for a manager. I don't even think it should be academic, that it should be mandatory; that it shouldn't take effect when the law, in two and a half years, but that within eight days. I don't even think he should be a manager, but he should be able to be... The manager's word is not understood, because it's the most important thing in Serbia right now, and I think that local self-government would have progressed very quickly, and that's the wish of all of us MPs, at least I hope so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17922	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Does the MP Slavoljub Matic, on behalf of the applicants of the amendment, want a word? (Employee withdraws the amendment to Article 57) Does MP Milos Lukic want a word? (Employee withdraws the amendment. ) Since all applicants of the amendment have withdrawn the amendment to Article 57, I find that this amendment has been withdrawn. National MP Bozidar Vucurovic submitted to the 57th amendment. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. National MP Bozidar Vucurovic is not present. The word has been made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17923	Now that I see how much of a function the congregation of the municipality or the city would be denied, maybe we should give up the amendment we're asking to erase the function of the municipal manager, but we can't change our position from session to session. I think this proposal left out a lot of things, and the minister could have asked his direct associates and introduced many other functions into the municipality or city council. He could've introduced the lead rat. In the municipality he already has one in Kragujevac. He could have introduced the chief manager for buying and selling football players, as he already has in the parliamentary group, and he could have introduced drug manufacturers, as he already has in his parliamentary group. Anything you can think of. (Lowers from the O.R.: And the undertaker.) And the undertaker, I could bury you, however many of you there are. I've buried far more valuable people than those who are now sitting in the MPs' benches of DOS.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17924	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Mr Vladan Batic, minister of justice and local self-government, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17925	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the proposed amendment has no logical connection to that member we're discussing right now. Simply, that's why the government refuses to propose such an amendment. Also, I must say, when I took the word, that there was an objection that this law, apart from science, had some sad dimension. I would like to say to those who make such remarks that once in this assembly an MP told a story about grandfather and grandson, a story with a sad ending. I just want to remind you that someone who tells a story with a sad ending usually has a sad ending.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17926	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 38, against 105, a abstentioned one, was not voted 28, out of a total of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Sinisa Mitrovic submitted to the 57th amendment. The Government, the Committee on Justice and Administration and the Committee on Environmental Protection have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Ispanovich Istvan, a National MP, submitted to the 57th Amendment. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? It's pulling the amendment. ) I find that MP Išpanovich Istvanovič withdrew the amendment to Article 57. The amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic to Article 58. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. The word is made by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic, subject to amendment to Article 58.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17927	In Article 58, there is something that extends through this bill, which is that an act on the organisation of the municipal administration is taken by a decision of the assembly on a proposal from the president of the municipality, and that the internal organisation of the same administration is regulated by the head of the municipality, with the agreement of the president of the municipality. It's too much authority for the president of the municipality. Gentlemen, you're living in delusions that all over the world this kind of authority has the president of the community. Everywhere in the world is the place of mayor or president of the municipality honor, not power. However, the truth works, there is a state in which such a government has a mayor, or president of the municipality. It is Croatia, Republika Srpska, Bulgaria, and something similar has Romania. If those are models we should look up to, then thank you, gentlemen. Here's the thing: The essence of the government of a local self-government is reflected in its administration. It's the most qualified part of local self-government, the most professional part, which is the part that, essentially, by its decisions, maintains a local self-government, it is funded. Everything else is conditionally variable. Everything else can be good or bad, but management needs to be qualified, it has to be capable. The administration of the congregation must have power, control. That, under the current law, was done by the congregation through the secretary. See what absurdity - in this law is foreseen as secretary of the assembly. In fact, what is the role of this man - to organize the work of the congregation, to organise meetings of the congregation. The assembly session must be held at least once every three months, which means four times a year. This man, who under this law is to serve as secretary of the congregation, has the role only to organise a total of 16 sessions of the congregation. The most qualified person in the local self-government is the secretary. He has to have a judicial exam, he has to be a professional person, everything is foreseen. What's his role? Nothing. The work of the local congregation can organize services, the secretary of the congregation can organize. That's not a problem. Gentlemen, some illogicalities must be corrected. We propose to delete this amendment or to clearly define that the assembly of a local self-government must be rational and cheap. So what's the secretary for? This is where you called him Chief, and I think the Chief could be the current or current secretary of the Secretariat.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17928	Anybody else answer for a word? The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17929	If you had accepted our amendment to Article 54, even though the Government's representative said that he was rejected because it does not apply to Article 54 at all, this substance that is regulated by Article 58 would have already been regulated. It's about who's bringing in acts on the organisation of the municipal administration. According to the draft law, they are adopted by the Assembly of the Municipality on the proposal of the President of the Municipality, and the Act on the Internal Organisation and Systematization of the Municipal Administration is adopted by the Chief, with the agreement of the President of the Municipality. Now that you have somewhat reduced the authority of the president of the municipality, I am interested in why you have not responded with the amendment and to this member. Namely, why would the president of the municipality propose acts on the systematization of the municipality to the assembly? It's not his job, it's a completely separate business. I can't find any threads to tell me if you've finally given up on that emperor called the president of the municipality or not. You've given up an amendment to one of the members. By not accepting the amendments to other members that would be completely rounded up, you continue to leave him with the competences provided for by the basic proposal. I'm just afraid that we're going to be very surprised by the Justice and Administration Committee and that you're actually playing a game here by accepting or refusing some amendments, and you're waiting for the amendments of the Justice and Administration Committee, who knows what to do with this bill (or they're already writing them and doing it evil under this bill). But basically, until the end, to the last member, we're going to try to reduce the authority of the president of the municipality, because we don't need such a strong figure, unchangeable, absoluteist figure, in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17930	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 43, against 116, there are no abstentions, 15 did not vote, out of 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 58th amendment was submitted by MP Toma Busetic. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. The word has the People's MP Toma Busetic, who submitted the amendment to Article 58.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17931	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I have proposed an amendment to Article 58 by the Assembly of the Municipality to adopt an act on the organisation of the municipal administration on the proposal of the Executive Board, not on the proposal of the President of the Municipality, as set out in the draft law. In this way, we reiterate the need for the survival of the executive board or the municipal government to be elected and resolved by the congregation of the municipality. In order to avoid confusion, we are not against the election of the president of the municipality or mayor with a direct statement, especially as we know that SPS candidates would be absolute favourites, so that we have the highest number of presidents in mind the human resources of the SPS, the SPS programme and practical policy. Human resources in the SPS are the best and we all know that. Software definitions - enough is just free education, we will not go any further; we are the only party leading practical policy, with us cheap electricity, cheap bread, greater concern for workers, greater concern for banks. We know what it's like in DOS today. So we're against other reasons, because the president of the municipality has too much authority. These powers are greater than the president of Russia and America. Local self-government is democratic fluid, but not through a presidential system like this. Secondly, bad experiences for 10 years and in the SPS, but also in the Together Coalition. We know what the presidents of the congregation of municipalities were, with much smaller prerogatives and responsibilities -- real pastures. What's he gonna be like now? A few more important questions. What will happen to environments where human rights are constantly at stake, although we all know that Serbia is a country where human rights are with the highest standards. Nowhere in Europe is like Serbia. Will there be a ministate in these municipalities? In the end, everything and everything has been said these days in the Assembly about this law. Some said the law is necessary because of decentralisation of government and money, thinking that all money is going to Belgrade. The Dukean MPs said this law was good, because now the Vojvodina will be better. We also heard DOS MPs say, when it comes to Belgrade, that Belgrade will only find a specific place with a special law, thinking that Belgrade invests more in the Republic and less in it. The truth is in the middle. No one's been robbed, no one's profited particularly economically. Serbia must live so that solidarity is the most important principle. (President: Time. ) It must continue to be a top principle. In the end, it doesn't matter how you vote for this amendment compared to the farce that started today in The Hague.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17932	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? The word comes from MP Dragan Markovic, president of the SSJ parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17933	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is that the Executive Board no longer exists. We've had enough of the executive board; we know what the executive boards were doing in Serbia's cities: the executive board makes a decision (there are usually 15 to 25 members in the executive board) and no one is responsible, because they say - it's everyone's and nobody's. The time has come for one man to be responsible -- the president of the municipality, elected directly in the elections, where citizens will decide and choose the right man. In particular, I'm going to give you an example where Jagodina has suffered a lot of damage from the executive board. The city of Jagodina and four villages was flooded because the executive board did not make a decision on the breakout of the dam, they could not meet, and huge damage was done both in agriculture and in households. If there were a president of the municipality then, he would sign a decision to bring down the dam and not be a flooded city and surrounding villages. Therefore, the time has come for citizens no longer to be deceived, as it was in earlier years, for parties to decide what will be done in the municipality. Now one man, or citizens of Serbia, will decide. If Serbian citizens trust a man for the president of the municipality, the man, in addition to having great powers, has great responsibility. Therefore, the Soviet Union will not vote in favour of this amendment, because the Executive Board has so far not been in office of citizens and cities; we know what has been happening to us lately. When I say that, I mean DOS, gentlemen, because you had power, like the Together Coalition, in a large number of cities. You've had power in certain cities for six years. The same goes for the SPS. The SS will not vote for this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17934	The right to a replica, MP Cedomir Jovanovic, on behalf of the DOS parliamentary group, as president. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17935	Mrs. Micic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is true that the new concept of government is that local self-government is reformed and that the traps that have been observed in the previous organisation are avoided. To mention the coalition "Together" and DOS as examples of a poorly organised system of local self-government is pointless, especially from the position of the coalition partner of the JUL. If you'd been with them this time in the coalition, you'd probably have easily knocked down the dam and half of the Pomorava, as was the case in your time of power. So when you agree within the coalition with JUL, you'll be able to promote some new concept of organization, or even criticize us. As you speak about DOS and the Together Coalition, do not forget to talk about the democratic forces that came to power with the electoral will of citizens, not the coalition that was formed out of political and predominant personal interest, with the program's totally opposing party, what your coalition was in the past years in Jagodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17936	You're the one who caused the replica. Right to replica, MP Branislav Ivkovic, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17937	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I did not ask for a replica, but as president of the parliamentary group, I asked that I use my right to speak of this amendment. Make it a replica. The previous discussions show that the elections may be close and it is clear that MP Dragan Markovic reacted more strongly to the presentation of SPS MP Tomo Busetic, because they are both from Jagodina and are likely to have a slightly stronger collision on the party plan. In that sense, I am experiencing a reaction and the head of the DOS parliamentary group. What's the point? Article 58 speaks about who proposes an act of the municipal administration organisation. At a time when it was not known that, however, the DOS would be resettled to realize that the president of the municipality is too big a pasture in his pasture, which is completely immeasurable, we asked that an act on the organisation of the municipal administration be proposed by the Executive Board, because we were on the grounds that the functions of that scope should be performed by a team of competent professionals. In the meantime, DOS has retarded into its municipal council, as some kind of control body that reduces the president's authority, and that's at least one shift to the best. Perhaps even if the amendment could be changed, it could also be a variant of Mr. Busetic, that an act by the municipal administration suggests a municipal council council, which you of the DSS and DS (in a coalition that apparently lives without a problem again) agreed. As for the role of the individual and the team, anyone who enters serious affairs will always be identified more for those capable and smart people, where there is no volunteerism and where there is no knowledge of who does what. An individual who thinks he knows everything usually goes to ruin. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-12-0.u17938	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? (Dear Markovic, from the scene: Replica! You don't have the right to a replica. Mr. Ivkovic, did you use the right line or did you answer as president? The right of replica was used by Mr. Ivkovic, and you have challenged the replica, Mr. Markovic, so you do not have the right to reply. He's got a word... Have you answered your word? No, is anyone else answering for the amendment? No, I don't. ) Before I put this amendment to the vote, only a brief notice - a session of the Justice and Management Committee will be held at 9.45 p.m. on the ground floor. I am putting the amendments tabled by MP Toma Busetic. For 33, against 119 abstentions, there were no 16 votes, out of 168 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Goodbye, we'll be working on tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, today's session is attended by 138 MPs, and please, in order to determine the quorum, insert identification cards into MPs. I figure we have a quorum and we can keep working. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Miroslav Markicevic, Miodrag Jaćimović, Dragan Jočić, Vladimir Dobrosavljevic, Stevan Lilić, Slobodan Radulović, Marin Krešić, Juhas Atila, Torde Laslo, Branislav Pomorijski, Djordje Cukvas and Momir Radoic. In the morning of the absence of Petar Misic and Natasa Milojevic, and the delay was announced by Bojan Kostres and Visnja Nezic, I would like to inform the National Assembly that the meetings were invited to attend the president, vice-presidents, ministers and secretary of the government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the secretary of the Republic Secretariat for legislation. Also, according to Articles 83 and 84. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that I invited representatives of the National Movement "Resist", representatives of the Association of Families of Kidnap and Missing Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija, representatives of the OSCE, as well as representatives of the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities of Yugoslavia on the third item of the agenda. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: - Proposal for a LOCAL Self-Government Law (single) On Article 42 of the amendment, the Committee for Justice and Administration, on the basis of Article 145. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Is anyone answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 101, against 13, the abstention of four, was not voted 28, a total of 146 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Article 45 of the amendment was submitted by the Committee on Justice and Administration, on the basis of Article 145. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Is anyone answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 106, against 18, the three abstentions, did not vote 26, a total of 153. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Members of the 43rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Miomir Ilic and Zoran D. Nikolic. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. That's what we voted on, I'm sorry. We've already decided on this amendment. Little mistake, sorry. A group of MPs: Vladimir Dobrosavljevic, Petar Majarevic, Zoran M. Nikolic, Dragan Jočić, Dusan Golubović, Slavoljub Matić, Milutin Svetkovic and Petar Cvetkovic submitted to the amendment. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The representative of the applicants shall withdraw the amendment. I find that the amendment to Article 58, which was submitted by a group of MPs, has been withdrawn. Here you go.
