ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-11-0.u20041	Dear lady, the presidency, ladies and gentlemen, all societies have a problem harmonising real life and the legal world. Ideally, one thing always fits one another, but in reality it rarely happens, so it's either right in front of life or it's the other way around. Of course there's a need to coordinate those two things. If we look at this eye the relationship of life at the university on the one hand and its legal regulations on the other, over the last 18 months, i.e. After October 5, 2000, we'll see that life at universities went ahead of legal regulations. On the condition that we agree that the 1998 University Act was a bad solution. In fact, an agreement has been reached between the ministry, at the time of higher education and later education and sports, that the law has actually been applied since 1992, and that it is dressed in the legal suit of the 1998 positive law. Thus, all the elections at the university were returned to the 1992 law procedure with the normal, common role of teaching and scientific councils and other professional bodies of the university. The same way was made to select most deans and their crews, college boards. In this way, through practice, life, the needs of the university, and the general mood of the public, have been balanced with an outdated, poorly-coordinated ideological legal model. No one is responsible and serious at the university complains to the Ministry of Arbitrality, so the majority of the university's mood is that it has been returned to university autonomy through practice, despite the formal validity of the 1998 law. That's what we came up with in the practical balance phase, despite the legal imbalance of an anachronous legal solution with modern demands of the world. Of course this fact balance has to find its own legal term. He's in front of you today. Some willfully notice that legal balancing could have been done before. Our answer was - it could, but it didn't have to. On the one hand, the Ministry of Education and Sports held that the new law was built by creating consensus between universities, student organisations and all those interested in normal functioning of higher education. Building a consensus, we all know, it's going on. On the other hand, the country's priorities in the transition also dictated the agenda of the assembly sessions. The needs of the state, the way the Assembly works, the relations in it, the limits of human endurance, the overload of the agenda, are just some of the reasons that prevented this law from being passed faster. At the same time, during all this time, the behaviour of the state authorities enabled normal regular work of the university. I sincerely hope, even I know, that most people respect these arguments, and that the extended time won't take it as a failed promise. But in this domain, it's the only thing that matters most. Because it can't be claimed that the existence of the 1998 law has bothered once with the positional parties, and now it's opposition. They also brought it in, arguing that what they bring is the best in the world, and the assumption is that their intention was given what they had, the longer they lived. The fact that they have caused the seas of inconceivable consequences of the worst species in university life, of course, is not important to them, and the consequences are expressed in a three-crypt number, namely about 200, people who have left the university, willingly or reluctantly, mostly reluctantly; in destroying and depreciating university life in a sea of ghastly, powerless dissatisfactions and in bringing to the university a number of people, who feel like persons without a ticket on the bus. They're always afraid that the controller doesn't kick them out of it and they're ready to teach them "the horse where the boss tells them to" and science doesn't take it. Those who were idea makers and voters of the current legislative solution have no moral right to oppose their own acts and actions. The law that is now before us is a transitional character. For the necessary alignment with the European educational process, we still have time for the Bologna Process for at least a few years, and we also need to answer five previous questions, in order for the coordination to be quality and finally. The five questions are - in which direction will change the plans and programmes of the university, and the length of the studies? In doing so, modernization is not controversial, but the alignment of concrete steps is still under way. Secondly, who is the bearer of autonomy: colleges, which is in our case today; or universities, which is a world trend. If this is another, then the question is -- can large universities, like Belgrade, still be unique or should be formed more smaller, and by what criteria? The third question is - how will university funding be organised? In fact, we are witnessing that our study was almost a social category, and that the data on the cost of studies for each highly qualified profile does not exist. We're on our way to an exact figure on how much the state costs one lawyer, one doctor, and so on. This is the only way we come up with a real picture of the relevant taxpayer, therefore, of the one who defines the study of all of us. The next question - what are the social needs for certain profile experts? These data can only be obtained after the full stabilisation of the market, and we need it for registration policy and court on the university network. So, only by our own feelings and sympathy so far can we talk about too many or too few colleges and students at the country level. In view of the normal and legitimate tendency of the local community to open college, on the one hand, as a desire for self-preservation of existing universities, on the other hand, it is clear that the decision to streamline the university network must rest on serious and exact parameters on the financial opportunities of the state and the human needs of society, not on sympathy. Arbitration. Finally, the last - it is a question of the relationship and role of private initiative in the educational process. Whether and to what extent our country will open the door to this initiative and capital, that is the question to which it corresponds by setting standards for accreditation or licensing of work. The formation of these standards will be in the jurisdiction of the bodies that are just being established by this law. Because of everything said, as the basis of the new law, which is now before us, he served the 1992 model of the law, with certain important improvements. The main of these are the following - the Republic Council for the Development of University Education has been reactivated; it also existed under the 1992 legal text, but never in practice came to life; and its role was strengthened. Some of the ministry's functions have been transferred to it to obtain autonomy, primarily accreditation and evaluation functions. When I say credentials, it means licensing colleges for work, evaluation evaluation of values, or the quality of the university's work. Secondly, the redefined authorities at the university, at the expense of the social community, or state, increased the number of representatives of employees and students, so that they got the control package and thus they were told to the colleges - the management is yours, and yours is autonomy. The following is also created by a legally formed student parliament, which has two roles: - the first is to find all student organisations, similar to our assembly, which is the meeting place of political parties, and that those in it make decisions relevant to the life of students, decisions that will follow the authorities of the university and implement; the second is the educational process and refers to the education of students for democratic discussion, argumentation and decision-making, in order not to show up in the future unloved scenes, which we are now witnessing in individual parliaments. For this parliament, students have fought and fought, starting in 1992. There are open opportunities for modernising schools by introducing three-months, credit system, numerical evaluations and foreign language classes. The area of autonomous autonomous law has been increased at the expense of state law, as one part of the legal matter has become a legal matter. The entry into force of this law will also mean the passage of the 1998 law to a depot of history. Most of our people have been looking forward to it, and I'm not talking to them. The following words I refer to the minority, the congregation and the general, with a desire to tell them honestly and openly about the reasons why this congregation and government have a chance to enter history. Compared to the state of things created by the 1998 law, Tito's age and self-government age for the university were Periklov's golden age. The 1998 law is the best proof that Ljosa was right when he claimed in "Sagi o Majta" that some things in life don't have the bottom, that the depth of the sink often didn't surprise us. In 1998, even something happened with the notion of a legal person, who in the world of legal rules assumed that person’s independence. However, the ideal creator and legislators of the 1998 law have managed to create an unknown concept of an independent legal entity until then. Dependence has become relative to the Serbian government, it has been setting the leadership of all colleges and universities, regardless, mostly against the will of teachers and students. She named rectors and deans, including members of all-powerful boards. It's even said that colleges are divided by percentages between parties. And, as if that wasn't enough for them, she kept the Ministry's right to agree to the choice of each regular professor, and she transferred the elections to another calling from the council to the deans, which she set herself. This is a military structure, a university hierarchy in which the government was the Supreme Council of Defence, the Minister of Enlightenment of the General Army, the rectors of the generals, and the Deans of the Colonels. Soon, however, it proved that Marques was also right- "The Colonel has no one to write," so the world stopped communicating with the Deans - colonels and letters and postcards. We got the most education out of the world. If it is known that science does not suffer isolation, that in isolation it ceases to be science, then the consequence is that colleges, with little of their guilt, have stopped being scientific institutions. There are as many witnesses in this country as there are people who have continued, in a controversial period, to communicate with their colleagues from abroad. So much to remind ourselves. The question that is now being asked is this - whether it is enough to catch a connection with the world to eliminate one law from the legal scene, or whether it is necessary to make another legislative attempt, that democratically, in a professional way, be cleared with the consequences of that law. Of course, I'm talking about retroactivity. Its ban is democratic fluid, the basis of which is the need for legal certainty. And that's not a question. However, the brutality that individuals, not all deans, applied this law, has led to both general and individual consequences, which are based on every educational system, including higher education. Six categories of teaching staff have been affected, in one way or another, by the actions of the 1998 law. These are: 1) persons who have lost their jobs under the fact of the law; 2) persons who have taken over the small door have entered colleges in higher education; 3) persons who, despite meeting the legal conditions, have been denied promotion; 4) persons who, although not eligible, have made progress; 5) persons who, due to political inadequacy, have been denied entry to the university; 6) persons who, mainly because of political similarities, received seats at the university. If this list is carefully looked at, it is clearly made according to the principle of water and fire. Each affected corresponds to one privileged. The problem, as always in life, is that two people compete for one place. I know success doesn't irritate those who profited from it, but it irritates those who have lost unjustly and particularly irritates the taste of injustice across the social community - the public. The interests of science and education are not worth wasting words for, for they are obvious. Is there more common interest than that? Because the final product of university education is - a high professional, who will be running this society tomorrow without any political colors, or interference. The bill that is before you is an attempt to wash the bitter taste out of the public mouth in the most painless way and satisfy the general interest. By launching a process that has traces of retroactiveness, only by the dean and the cathedral, it is clear that the legislator does not intend to ride on the wave of rematchism, but to leave the decision on correcting the consequences to the professional public. If this is added that the initiative cannot be launched suddenly, but that the coup occurs after two months of the law's entry into force, that decision, by initiative, is taking a larger half of the votes, and the only question remains -- who avoids looking at himself. This law also has a time and content very limited fact of retroactivity. During a short period of time, the cathedrals and deans may, and may not, initiate a decision of the council concerning the appointment of teachers and associates by the dean, without the influence of the council, so beyond the centuries, the usual, academic procedure, and the larger can, and not necessarily, make a revised decision. The society of this interest is measured by the importance of university education in Serbia today and the need for its final product to lead Serbia tomorrow. Finally, the retroactiveness of this law, according to the promoter, is at a low level, justified and hidden. In this last, a secret -- non-hiddenness, this law differs significantly from the 1998 law, whose retroactivity was a hidden bomb with an extended fact, which produced many injustices. This retroactivity has the aim of removing you from injustice. That is why it is said forward and said that this assembly has a chance to enter history, but not as a body that passed a retroactive law, but as a body that was forced to correct the injustice committed by an important segment of society in 1998. There are injustices that can never be corrected. What's and who's supposed to be massively brought to colleges, beaten up students, kicked out, and prevented teachers from coming in, and even teaching classes, getting dicked to bodyguards and stuff like that. What is and who should have been mass disciplined and financially punished by employees and students, even to the level of the study ban, who are trying to think with their own head, even wrongly. What is and to whom the mass enrolment from the university should make homes for social cases, receiving unlimited number of students, without spatial, technical and human resources, and thus, those who are willing to study, deny that right. We won't have any answers to these or similar questions, but we can tell them. Also, this law has no ambition to correct you and similar injustices. Finally, this law was mostly written by colleges and universities. There seems to be a good reason to open up a chance for development by adopting it, a chance that was harshly amputated in 1998. To conclude, the motion is that this body has a well-balanced proposal for a transit law ahead of it. The radicalism that some attribute to this text, which is exhausting in the notion of weak retroactivity, is not due to the radicalism of the promoter. He is the product of the need to correct earlier radicals. After all, it's been said in the line long ago: "one of which breaks down, two cities." There's something else I'd like to inform you about. This law has been passed through the Education Committee, which will be discussed later. Many of the amendments initiated by individual MPs, representatives of individual parties of the assembly, were also amendments to the government. That is why you can't see it sometimes, but as the Government's amendment, something is going on that was actually an amendment to a particular political party. For example, the Democratic Party of Serbia -- limiting the mandate -- we have limited it to two consecutive times, and there have been other examples. Unfortunately, the time and technique of the assembly procedure, therefore, the right and legal procedures sometimes erased the name of the motionors from your papers, so it seems like something, suggested by the Serbian Government, and in fact, sometimes a joint proposal from the government and some political parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-11-0.u20042	I thank Mr. Secretary. Do the officials of the committees want a word? Here's a word from MP Predrag Stojanovic, chairman of the Education Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-11-0.u20043	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to draw some basic lines, which have already been issued by Minister Knezevic. The text of the University Law that is now in front of you is relatively long in line with the demands of higher education institutions, which are very sensitive to their position in society. The Committee on Education, which was offered the proposal, complete with the amendments accepted, accepted with two separate votes of one parliamentary group, is the opinion that such a law corresponds to our current social moment. The law is transitional, it is European by character, and it is directed towards the Bologna Declaration. It is very likely that when the Serbian university's reforms are based in its framework, it will be replaced with new and fully adapted to the modern and progressive demands of the European environment. I would like to ask you to confirm with your votes the decision of the Educational Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-11-0.u20044	I thank the president of the Education Committee. Do the presidents of the Legislative Committee and the Committee on International Relations want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Do MPs who issued an opinion at the committee's session want a word? Please, MP Vladimir Garčević, who gave an opinion at the Committee on Education session. Here you go. Five minutes is time.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-11-0.u20045	The Honorable Presidency, respected ministers, fellow MPs, during the adoption and review of the situation, concerning the law, can say that I am glad that in 1992, Daca had a law that was pro-European and that now basically the law remained the way it was in 1992. However, I must say that the government of Serbia, or the Ministry of Education, has kept some provisions from 1998, when the government should decide on colleges; means what the government uses it leaves for itself, and what it does not use, the Assembly eliminates. On the other hand, I have proposed on the Education Committee - if there are any problems from 1998 until the coming to power, until October 2000, that we form an educational committee that would establish a factual state of affairs regarding any cases that existed in the present situation. But normally, the government never wants the truth to be seen. Why? Because for years she's launched and blocked her college work, and I'm sorry there's no Ms. Assistant Minister asking what she's doing with the students right now. I'd ask the Minister's question -- that everything that's been done in a year and a half, less than you've done in a year and a half at college, coming to work, giving diplomas and those who have graduated for a short time -- you've waited for legal regulations. On the other hand, I do not approve of any procedure if it is abuse, but abuse can be determined by the board of this assembly, not by any party in power. So, by working together, and then I'd be ready in the Assembly to support this. That the law was left without Articles 141, 142 and 143, a common solution could be found, regardless of the opinion on certain amendments, that this law could be accepted as a whole. However, we do not have faith, I do not have faith, knowing that individuals who take a high place are also in Soros. Watching "Mask" on BK TV, I had the opportunity to see that Mrs Turlajic convinced students to accept responsibility, that the Serb people would accept responsibility for this previous period. Minister, I think you could find and question what's going on, who's putting political pressure on students? On the other hand, the Committee on Education asked the following question, Minister, (I didn't get an answer) - does their organisation "Resist" mean a government organisation, financed from the budget of the Ministry of Education? And the second question that I'm asking here, and I didn't get the answer, is whether the appointed members of the "Resistance" for controllers on admission exams, and that's what the public is asking me, and I want you to tell the public the truth about it today. Therefore, this law without transitional provisions, with the establishment of a committee that could and could determine the actual state of affairs, could solve problems and pass an adequate law. Now, I want to ask if you can, right here, you have an MP with a three-year-old school to get into college, under what conditions, can he not take an exam to get on the board? Let them think if they're here today. Therefore, everything needs to be reconsidered, I am responsible for every person where there has been abuse, but not one who judges and determines responsibility. That's why we're going to vote probably, since the bosses are going to make a statement about the whole law; so let's, if you want democracy, set up a committee to determine the actual situation, but not from 1998 to 2000, but to this day.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-11-0.u20046	Do any of the MPs who've singled out want a word? National MP Bora Stanimirovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-11-0.u20047	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Ministers, I have not issued an opinion that I would criticise this law, because it is, in fact, a copy of the 1992 law that has been passed by the SPS, and because when adopting this law, some attitudes, even, from the 1998 Law, are used, and these are the members most criticised by some university professors. I did not take the view that I would criticise the biggest critics of the 1998 University Act, who said that the law was uncivilising, that it was choking autonomy, that too many states interfered in the work of universities and colleges, who were so disgusted that the very idea of the law simply didn't want to enter the university building, or college. But what happened? After October 5th, these same people did not mind taking up the highest posts at universities, universities, starting from university rector to dean, board president and accepting the calls of regular professors, and at a time when they had no support in some collectives, not even a member of a teaching council, but on a proposal from the minister of education and sports, they became and remained, and in fact until September 30, 2002, so they will be able to work on the basis of the law most criticised. But, ladies and gentlemen, that's not why I've singled out my opinion, I've singled out my opinion just for two things. First, because of the transitional and final provisions of the university bill and secondly, because of the very reasoning of the law. As for the transitional and final provisions, we have just heard from the minister and that the retroactiveness that is being taken in some milder form; however, this is one problem - perhaps the Assembly will not enter into history, but the minister will surely enter history as the first minister to propose a law on the university with a retroactive fact. This basically means that all those elected, all teachers, university professors, under the 1998 law (but, watch out, only by October 5th), can lose that job and will be applied to them, unless they are party equalists, all those clauses foreseen by the 1992 law and not to those chosen after October 5th. I am responsible for saying that there were more choices after 5 October to 11 April, to this day, than it was until 5 October under the 1998 Law, with some mitigation of the 1992 law that was not in force. So, from July 1998 to October 5, 2000, and you see where we are now. That's what we talked about earlier, and that's why we advocated that the members of the University Law Bill offered here are practically deleted, because there are retroactiveities in these members. However, the Ministry has accepted this most drastic, i.e. when it comes to prosecution. Please, according to this bill, it was envisaged that the teaching and scientific council would play a role as public prosecutor, that they should initiate, say, disputes against teachers who were elected. Therefore, the amendment has been accepted, but these three are not the remaining ones, which in some way indicate that there will be a rematch and that it will be done as proposed in the law. Secondly, the only reason for the law contains so much hatred, so much rematch, but also so much cowardice that it's just amazing that in one view of the tadzacon, I'm not reading right now, it says that in fact at the universities and universities of Serbia, the police went into colleges, that they arrested students, that the deans had security, etc. Please, maybe it was in Belgrade for a couple of colleges. but it should have been said, it wasn't in all of Serbia. [[growls]] I'm responsible for saying that there was no...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-11-0.u20048	Mr. Stanimirovic, thank you, you've exceeded your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-11-0.u20049	... The police didn't go to college. It was similar at Kragujeva University, but it should have been said because of generations to come. Imagine, some historian who, say, 50 years later will study all that, what he'll say about such a university. Nobody guarantees us, let's just say they'll...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-11-0.u20050	Mr. Stanimirovic, I warn you that you have exceeded your time, and I see that you have also been reported for debate in principle.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-11-0.u20051	I'll continue later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-11-0.u20052	Thank you. Do the MPs Pal Shandor and Dragisa Djokovic who have issued an opinion want a word? No, I don't. We are moving on to the debate of the president of the parliamentary groups. The word has the president of the DOS-DSS parliamentary group, MP Dejan Mihajlov, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-11-0.u20053	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of Parliament, Mr Minister, before we begin to discuss the Law on the University, to put forward views and objections and, of course, what is good in this law, should be analysed before this law, as well as the reasons why, year after year, there has been a tightening of ring around the university, which for the last 10 years has been a shock to all the protests that have arisen and spread throughout Serbia. It was this dissatisfaction that young people first and foremost felt all these years, which has been articulated through various protests over the last 10 years, that has been a shock to all other protests and has contributed greatly to the changes that followed in 2000. On the other hand, from year to year, the regime tightened its ring around the university. The crown of that ring was the 1998 Law. He completely subdued the Belgrade University to the government, the state and built a company from the Belgrade University. There has been completely wiped out every autonomy of the university, the university is reduced to the level of the company run by the Prime Minister or someone else, and in this case it was Mira Markovic; so Belgrade University became everything but the universities of his autonomy there was no "a". These were the basics of which democratic power came when it came to these positions where it came from. Regardless of the various considerations surrounding the University Act, we, as the DSS, believe that this law is primarily transitional and transitional and as such we experience it. We don't view it as some final solution that needs to ensure the full authentic autonomy of the university as one civilizational liquid, but we consider it a transitional solution from the 1998 Law to one such law. That's why we at the DSS will support this bill as such. It just wasn't enough conditions to start by passing a new law. First of all, there has been no fundamental reform of the entire education system and no objectives of education have been established, and on the basis of which a new university law should be passed. We believe that this law can allow changes to be made during this transition period which are necessary and which are in spirit with the changes that occurred after the change of the previous regime. This law refers in a strange way to the 1992 law, which had less than the logic of the autonomy college and more than one self-government logic. It may be the logic of the tadzakon, of course, because the law was Milosevic's laws that arose after a self-government period. We believe that if we were going back to the laws that were in force, it might have been better to go back to the Kingdom of Yugoslavia law on the University of 1930, which was then a modern, democratic law and, in accordance with other democratic states, guaranteed full autonomy from the university. If it is noted that in Yugoslavia and Serbia in 1945, the state first took part in university management, then we can see that it began with the arrival of communists to power. By 1945, the university was in terms of management absolutely independent, and the funding was -- of course, in addition to the legislation and all that remains of the university -- on the mantles of the state. So the state, before 1945, had consciousness and wanted the university to just be an authentic intellectual base to help that very state. Care of university autonomy was then a strategic goal of the state, as one of the possibilities and one of the conditions for the rapid development of the state and for the inclusion and approximation of the state then to modern, democratic and developed countries. We believe that such a law, which would bring full autonomy to the university -- which will follow, of course, after this transitional or transitional law -- is something that is the ultimate goal of all changes when it comes to the university in Serbia. I must say that there was co-operation between the DSS and the MP's club with the Ministry in the draft of this law, and some objections and amendments that were submitted by the DSS were already incorporated into the text of the law itself. We believe that in that part this text of the law has been improved. The DSS has more amendments; we expect some of them to be accepted. What we are particularly interested in from the DSS is whether the provisions relating to the ban on religious action, or organisation at the university, are a ban on the return of the Faculty of Education in the frameworks of the University of Belgrade or not. So this should be resolved, because we have an initiative to abolish a solution that has been expelled from Belgrade University's Belgrade University's Faculty of Education. This session will discuss it. So, we want to know whether it's preventing the inclusion of the Belgrade University of University of University of Education in Belgrade or not. The ambiguities created by this law following these provisions concerning the student parliament, the minister, in his opening statement, somewhat diverged, because the student parliament will not refer to a political organisation called the student parliament, but will be for the students of some kind of parliament as we have here. This is unclearly introduced into the law, and we believe that some special act is needed, and it is likely to be passed, organised by a student parliament that will have its own special rules and likely full autonomy within the Belgrade University. There is absolutely no possibility of the influence of the professor or of any other, or of the state authorities themselves, on the functioning and organisation of the student parliament. It is then something that will allow students to participate in Belgrade University's management. We, as DSS, are fully in favour of it. Also, the worst is one injustice, and the 1998 law was an injustice, primarily to teachers, students and all other citizens of Serbia, to correct another by injustice. The annulment, or revision of some of the titles received since 1998, is acceptable, but this should not have a form of rematch and should not be corrected by other injustices. We will insist that all of this be under special attention and under the glory of both the public and the professional bodies, so that indeed those who do not deserve the title will be deprived of those titles, and those who deserve it, of course, will get that title. Undoubtedly, there are those who deserve their titles under that law. We just have to stick with it. We at the DSS will insist that the final court on the quality of this law is given precisely by teachers and students, because they are the ones who need to implement it and most apply this law to them. As I said earlier, we will vote for this law because we are experiencing it, as is said, as a transitional and transitional solution, not as a final solution -- which will follow the reforms that our education and our education system must experience, in order to clearly identify the objectives of education and ways that it will work in the first place. We believe that Serbia needs a new law on the university to provide full, authentic, civilization-specific autonomy of the university, so that we may then return to some of the basics Serbia had in 1930, in the Law on the University of Yugoslavia.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-11-0.u20054	National MP Zeljo Huric, the authorised representative of the parliamentary group, Reformists Vojvodina and the Sandzak Democratic Party, spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-11-0.u20055	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the Vice-Presidents, the Honorable Mr. Minister and the other members of the Government, honourable fellow Members, dear guests, respected and respected citizens, is before us a law on the university which, together with the laws on elementary and secondary schools, makes legal legislation for our country's education system. If we assume that about 1.5 million Serbian citizens participate in the formal education system, and of which about 80,000 teachers, teachers, teachers, and as such represent the most educational part of the population, then we conclude that this is also the most significant national resource. Nearly four million citizens have direct education needs, including the vast majority of young students, students and students. So important, I'd say to the most important resource, in the last 10-12 years almost without any attention being paid. True, the country has embarked on a transition process, but without any change in what and how it is taught in educational institutions. Everything that has been happening to us, especially in the field of civil rights, has had an important impact on the institutions of education which, of course, were not models of the democratic process or of affirmation of peace and tolerance. As we know, it was a very common strike, and education expenditures were at the lowest level. True, accessibility and equality in education were declared, but they were not fully realized. In particular, the absence of developing tolerance towards diversity, elimination of xenophobia, development of a system of values, knowledge and respect for human rights was evident. The only, as we heard, legal change in the previous period, which took place at the university, was the adoption of a new University Law in 1998, which almost completely abolished the autonomy of the university and which also trampled some of the rights of autonomous provinces. In many of its provisions, it was contrary to international documents signed and ratified by Yugoslavia, thus creating a space for various discrimination based on personality traits, which has been very often happening in practice. There were various forms of violence, the mass presence of armed persons, the mass layoff of professors and students, the uncontrolled enrolment of students, the self-will of deans, almost legalized bribery and corruption, and a lot of things I really don't want to talk about more explicitly this time. As far as the proposed university law is concerned, he represents a modest attempt to make these and many other faults of the ID. Of course, the promoter in his attempt was limited by many, mostly by the status of universities. Therefore, this law is and must be for the time being of transition and temporary character. Important newspapers, which have already been discussed, are primarily in the enhanced autonomy of the university. Some of the country's responsibilities, i.e. the ministry, have been transferred to the Republic Council for the Development of University Education. Reintroduced university members, such as institutes and university libraries, are being reintroduced. Universitys, i.e. colleges, can establish companies, so-called incubators, who are left alone after laying their foundations and as such have a better chance of a successful business. The governing bodies of this law provide for the domination of representatives of the university and the institutes in relation to the representatives of the founders. Much of the legal matter was left to be arranged by the statutes of universities and colleges. Universitys and universities can organise teaching in the three-metres, which is also one of the important newspapers. The student parliament, which elects a student proceded and student procurator, has been institutionalised by this law, confirming its significant democratic role. True, I am not personally satisfied with the planned participation of student representatives in the functioning of the university, or university. I think it was necessary to strengthen the role of students, especially when making decisions on their objections and abuse of positions by employees, especially teachers. In the hope that this high house will accept my amendment that removes this deficit, I can express my satisfaction with the proposed text. All in all, as I have already announced, for the Sandzak Democratic Party and the Vojvodina Reformist this proposed text of the university law is acceptable and we will support it with our votes; in principle, of course.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-11-0.u20056	The word is from MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the DOS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-11-0.u20057	Mrs. Micic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think we've had a lot of important laws ahead of us over the past year, that we've discussed very serious issues, looking for solutions. But I don't believe that there can be arguments that could be left in some other plan today's debate, nor can there be arguments that the law on the university and the laws that will follow, I mean basic and secondary education, could be taken away from the title of the most important agenda points that we as MPs have discussed and decided. I think it would be good to have as few phrases as possible in this debate as possible, to have a lot more facts, concrete proposals, careful analyses, preparedness to accept mistakes for what has been done and willing to take responsibility for what we do today, by adopting this law, I believe that this will happen, we do. We heard one remark that the university was treated as a company between 1998 and 2000. This is the correct assessment, by adding that this company was actually a party cell and that, if we analyse the period of collapse of our university, this period is much longer than has been represented so far and that it cannot be ignored the way this government is faced with the consequences of the decades-long destruction of Belgrade and all other universities. Let me remind you that the period of collapse of our university has actually begun with the change of society in our country. In 1945, new authorities entered the university with bayonets and Belgrade universities. Even today, we do not know the fate of professors who worked in Belgrade and all other universities until 1945. We don't even know today the fate of associates, and from Mr. Michiz's memoirs, we can get to know the fate of students who attended our universities at the time. There is a practical difference between the fate of university students in a period that followed immediately after the war and the fate of university students in Serbia in the last decade, but in its essence, the difference is minimal. In one case, the students, professors and assistants of the university were the victim of a political reckoning; the reckoning with the healthiest power of our society; the reckoning, given such a constitution, which was more than brutal. I think that's why we need to carefully find answers here to questions about what our university is like today, why it is, so we don't repeat the same mistakes, and then see if there is a consensus in Parliament and in society on the vision of the future university and then assess whether this law is one transitional regulation to what we want together to create. When we talk about universities in Serbia, we're actually talking about something much deeper than the question of a professor or a particular generation studying, we're talking about something that's shaping our future. So it's very important that at this point we try to determine the facts that describe the situation at our universities. The university has been practically since the 5th of October 2000, a university that functions with the characterization and minimum respect of the law, which we have highly criticised and which leaves deep consequences behind. Deep consequences, above all, because the only intensities of the law were a political coup, not an improvement of the university. Those who try otherwise to justify what was done in 1998 will face incontrovertible facts. The university, after the period of power of the previous regime, left behind 130m marks of debts. The university left behind a list of 200 professors and assistants who had only been expelled from university for two years. The university finally left behind a whole series of unprofessional people who, by political protection, acquired their titles and titles. It's the most concrete example of medical school. From 28 May 1998 to 5 October 2000, the title of professors and assistants was obtained by 513 persons at the Faculty of Medicine, with respect to the law only 250. Now I ask you - who are the people who have decided on these titles and who are the people who can deal with the problems of the Medical Faculty today, who no longer has room to choose a new professor and new assistant, unless once Milovana Bojic takes that title, since he illegally acquired it, both he and many others. It wouldn't be good to personalize that kind of responsibility for the chaos that governs our university, but it's very important that we say what is our essential intention. We return the university to this society, break down the political structures of our society, ready to assume the kind of responsibility the state must assume. We will be responsible for some new debt created at the university, but we will never again be the authority that will be responsible for non-compliance with the law or political protection, which serves a student or an assistant, a political protection that pushes the university into an ambience, as it has been the case in the last decade. Therefore, some criticisms have already been made in the initial appearances of MPs, with respect to the 1998 law, or 1992. This is a transitional law. In the area of education, we can't behave the way we behave, say, in the area of economy. The factory can fail, but the university can't. The factory can be privatised, but the university cannot be privatised unless those rules and standards that are common to the world are respected in the process. Because when you make shoes you can make those shoes with the idea that they are sold only in Serbia, but when you teach students and you give them diplomas in hand, these diplomas are worthless if you think about the idea that they can only be used in the Belgrade University atara or the former Kumrovska School. This practice is a practice that is interrupted by the application of this law, which I believe will be supported by MPs. I think it's very important to say that the state, the government, we as a parliament, are disowning management functions in college. Afirmish is a republican council for improving university education. The authorities are returning to the departments, teaching and scientific councils and minimising the role of representatives of the authorities in the authorities operating universities in Serbia. The simplest thing, I will quote some members of the law, i.e. paraphrasing: the number of representatives of the government, therefore not members of the government, is equal to the number of representatives of the students, and the number of representatives of the universities. The Republic Council for the Promotion of University Education, University Representatives, or Rectors, four universities times three representatives is 12, and on the other hand representatives of the minority government are obliged to serve the university and cannot impose their solutions. It's the most concrete contribution that can't be minimalized by some kind of criticism or cartoonation of what's essentially the effort we've made in this area. The thesis that this law could have been passed earlier can be justified if we think about the consequences of applying the previous law and therefore, in the first periods of coming to power, we actually minimized any kind of damage that followed the application of the existing University Law. We could choose between the attitudes to regulate the state of the university without laws or attitudes that were prevailing, which received the support of the university, to change the situation through evolution, with the agreement of new authorities and university representatives. That's why it's been a year since the Republic government's election, since the arrival of new people at the Ministry of Education, to this debate. You can read in the accompanying materials that in this debate is a consulted university, a professional public; therefore, you can see everything that was not the dominant feature in the laws that marked the previous decade in this area that we are talking about today. I think that's why it's important to focus on those important points that are actually going to represent a fundamental difference compared to everything that's been present so far. It's the minimum role of the state, it's affirming the role of students, and it's restoring trust for professors, through the idea that they're implementing not only their university management, but they're deciding for themselves everything that's important for the functioning of universities, in frameworks and at levels that are crucial to them. The role of the state will primarily be assessed on the basis of what the state is willing to do for that university, which is not only the law on the university, it is the creation of a climate in which the university will be respected, the creation of a climate in which the university will be a priority. Through the treatment of the fact that, as a state to the university, we remained in debt to 130 million marks or about 65 million euros, I did not want to leave all those people who had lost their jobs by applying the 1998 law. At that time, only something happened to the university that represented precedent and something that has no example in the modern practice of editing this area anywhere in the world. Teachers working on this job for 20 years had to make a new contract with their employer, the Republic government, a new contract with party representatives, who have been trying to destroy the university for 10 years. When you look at the composition of the Belgrade University Management Board, then you will face the inconclusive evidence that the university was then a party cell and would have been a party cell if it hadn't been for those who resisted that kind of relationship to the university. They are the most worthy of what we are talking about today, because if Goran Matic, Ivan Markovic, had taken care of the university by Vojislav Seselj, had only been taken care of by Branislav Ivkovic, Mirko Marjanovic, members of the university's board of directors, today the university would have shared the fate of Serbia, which we faced on 5 October 2000. We must be grateful to those people from the university who had the strength to stand up to it and the strength to carry out that burden, which wasn't just theirs. Why was the university a basis for political freedom - only because there are normal, reasonable people, people who think about their tomorrow. Not because some party has manipulated the university, although it is true that the university has become the cradle of democratic Serbia in which we live today. I think it's very important at the same time to look back at those segments of this law that actually sanction all the harmful consequences of the law that has been applied so far. I'm not just thinking about retroactiveness and reviewing the titles that were given in the previous period. This retroactivity is binding and it does not stop on 5 October. It will be binding until the day this law is passed. I believe it will happen in the next week and she will cover everything. Those who are professionals have no reason to fear, but those who have received an index or calling at the university have a lot to worry about, because we are ready with an iron broom to clean something up. It will never happen again at Belgrade University of Practice, which took place in the previous period. The Republic Council for the Promotion of University Education has a great task. He practically has to travel the path of university development, not us as parliament. We have to provide students with a job after they graduate from college, we have to be honest and say that this country can have as many students as it can provide quality education. We can't build social institutions from the university, because at this point, there are only about 80,000 people at Belgrade University. There is no example of such a university in the world. Find one. That's defeating knowledge. The second level that is very important is the affirmation of the department, the teaching-science council, the afrimation of the university council, as well as the emphasis on the new role of university rector, or dean of the university. It's no longer a party clerk, it's not a person who answers exclusively to the government. It's a person who corresponds to his colleagues and his students. It is a person who depends on the decisions of his colleagues and his students, much more than on the decisions of a minister or a Prime Minister. That's the advantage this law gives, and that's something that can't stay out of the way. At the same time, I think there is no fear of the kind of function of the student parliament, which could produce some new political tensions at the university. Since it is in preparation for the law on student organisation, the role of the student parliament will be very clear, but I have great experience in this regard and I think it is necessary to enable students, regardless of political positions, because I think that every conscious being has certain political views, to decide together on issues that are important to the university. This kind of civilization shift will contribute to the development of this society, because stable Serbia cannot be stable without knowledge, and knowledge is lame if it comes from a university that is a party cell or from a university that is no longer a party cell, but no one else cares anymore. That's why I welcome this proposal. I think the good amendments that have been proposed and that we will support a large number of amendments. We cannot support the collapse of Article 141 because it would actually confirm injustice, and we have no right to such a thing. It wouldn't be good to turn this into a debate about individual responsibilities, because I think those who set themselves up like that have to face the devastating facts, and I'm not sure they're ready for that kind of thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-11-0.u20058	Thank you. He has the word National MP Alexander Vucic (replica).
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-11-0.u20059	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I answered the line, surprised by the exposure of the speaker. In fact, from here, from this pay phone, believe it or not, he began to talk about people who, even some in just two years, cared about the university, and he did it in such a cynical way, and he said -- well, imagine, he also mentioned the name of Professor Vojislav Seselj. You know, Vojislav Seselj was the youngest doctor of legal science in the former Yugoslavia, when he was 25 he was a doctor. He doctored on the theme "Political essence of militarism and fascism". He did what he could, in a way and in conditions that were extremely difficult; for what he did and how he did at the University of Belgrade and Law School Management Board in Belgrade did not get any single dinar, as well as any other representative of the SRS; and no one weighed him to come to a certain place except in a short period. I don't think the SRS at Belgrade University had any deans. But who are you, Mr. Jovanovic, to talk about, who are you to salt your brains and teach doctors legal or any science, who are you to mention them, to take them in your mouth? Where did you get the face to talk about them? I'm maybe a year older than you or we're the same age, I don't know, 10 years ago I finished it, with the best success and the highest grades. You might want to take away some college graduates that they've been finishing because you don't like them? You mentioned 1945 - it's true, 2000 is the same as 1945. I don't know what you did with the bayonets. I know what happened to the automatic rifles. Now, that's how Gašo Knezevic first entered his university, and before he went and asked to be rejected, so he could work in so-called. AOM, is that what it's called, at the AOM which was financed from the outside, where they had unmatched higher incomes than our professors had at the University of Belgrade. Don't tell us who finished our studies correctly -- which we did within the deadline -- I can't say that it's something particularly fast, I wasn't one of those who ended it before the deadlines, who were more successful in that sense -- and who know what was going on in colleges. If you really think you're feeling better at university today than you were three years ago or 10 years ago, it's not. Not at all. Ten years ago, you had professors like Mr. Knezevic and others who made ads on the boards of the Faculty of Law and uploaded them, to condemn the aggression of Serbs on Sarajevo, to condemn the aggression of Serbs on Vukovar. That's what they did. They weren't just teaching colleges. That's what they're doing today. Unfortunately, we had that three years ago, and four years ago, and five years ago, and nothing changed, except something was tried in that period to do. So I invite you not to say such things, because you should know what's going on at our university, and these are facts, whether someone likes them or not. In any case, I think it would be much better and smarter if we were talking here about the bill, than some of us were making heroes, because they were students or teachers in, for God's sake, dictatorial time. And today they decide fates, throw out and banish whoever they want from college, whoever they don't like politically, whoever thinks otherwise. Ask me who can become an assistant at the Faculty of Law in Belgrade today, who can't and can't become an assistant at any price.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-11-0.u20060	Mr. Wolfie, second time I'm warning you of a time-out.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-11-0.u20061	I'm done, don't take my money, please, I'm done. So, as far as this is concerned, you can never say such things to Serbian radicals, but since you have introduced one practice, harassing and shagging of all those who do science and think otherwise, be assured that everything that happens in the future will no longer be a precedent, it will no longer be the first time. What you've introduced, it's a lot like 1945, and I fully support you in that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-11-0.u20062	The word comes from MP Branislav Ivkovic, president of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-11-0.u20063	The Honorable Madam Chairman, the principle of working, I have the right to a three-minute replica, so please add to my time, a three-minute replica and the time I am entitled to as president of the parliamentary group. Dear Mr Jovanovic, I was not comfortable when you said in a pesoriatic sense that one university was led by Ivkovic, although I support your approach that you should not go into individual responsibility, and I want to tell you that this one Ivkovic is four times a bioxiere at world conventions, while others have paid to come to Congress, that I have five of my monographs, published in English, Russian and Spanish. Just enough, that I am one of those who has installed a degree in Belgrade's Faculty of Civil Engineering as is the institution of his name, as is academic Nikola Hajdin and many of the university's top professors from Belgrade's Faculty of Civil Engineering, which is why the degree of the Faculty of Civil Engineering is recognised and understood in the world. And in that regard -- who manages today's university, instead of the Deputy Prime Minister, Professor Vojislav Seselj, Science and Technology Minister Branislav Ivkovic and others, today manages the university, by law, a member of the Supreme Court, Mr Ivosevic, who should otherwise already be retired because he has grown over the legal right to be a judge for years; he is the chairman of the Management Board, although you have brought the law here most of the time, which is incompatible with his function, to be president of the University of Belgrade Management Board. It's just as much - how you do it, how who manages it. Let me get back to the subject. I'm sorry, this was part of the replica. However, I wanted to answer you because I believe that this spirit should be maintained, that here, first of all, we who are from the university, have an exceptional moral obligation to concentrate on the law and avoid any political connotations, although it is inevitable that when the president of the parliamentary group, the opposition Socialist Party of Serbia, has to be obliged to comment on a number of stings sent by the minister of education and sport in its opening statement. The university is really a couple of excelent institutions of every state and every nation. Basically, there is a meeting at the university of knowledge and desire for knowledge, meeting wisdom and those who want to gain that wisdom. We really have a moral obligation here to talk about the university in the right way. But it's really inevitable and let's ask you from the DOS regime -- why you haven't changed the university law before, the law you called a disgraceful law. Many deans, even those I know a little better, don't miss to say - the shameful law of the university. And when you think about it, you're applying it to school 2000/2001. A year, in school 2001/2002. A year and since you're in the mood for him on September 30, 2002, I have to tell you, gentlemen and ladies of the DOS, you're applying him more than those who voted him in parliament. It is interesting, however, how the minister of education experienced the law on the university. He says it's the military administration, that basically there's a general staff and he probably saw himself and he saw it, applying this law, as Chief of Staff. And, as things stand, I am terribly concerned that Serbian citizens understood and understood how the law under the DOS regime, the 1998 University Act, was implemented for almost two and more years. As they conducted it, it shows perhaps one example, a lovely university lady, Neda Bocan, after October 5th, otherwise the dean of his university, is three times the majority, secret vote, elected Dean of his university, again. However, here is the Minister of Education and Sports present, despite having 70% of the vote in the third vote, beware - after October 5th, after the crisis headquarters that broke into the colleges and the crisis headquarters headed by Prof. Maria Bogdanovic, who entered the university, you experience that one professor, Neda Bocan, gets 70 percent of the support of her employees, whom the dean had previously appointed as Professor Dr. Kaldeburg, although he did not have the majority and support of those present. Therefore, you have, as I estimate, unwittingly extended the duration of this law, but in all its extremes and how you have consciously applied it and there is a problem, because you have truly seen this as a military administration, as a dictatorship, as a general staff and minister as chief of staff. I have to tell you, it's very good that this law is going to change, because you are extremely applying it. It is certain that there has been extreme application in the earlier period. We have to really speak honestly, and I know one or two colleges where there were problems, but that's why in a huge number of colleges, starting with mine and beyond, the deans still respected the teaching-science council, the deans convened larger regular professors, bigger regular and extraordinary professors, and made every effort to work with their collective. To a great extent, you've had very fair application of that law, respect for the tradition of the university, and you've had the fact that those who sign the referendums know they're putting their name and name on it. And even though the dean may have had the right to agree with some choice, he didn't take advantage of it himself, but he asked the council, you always had signatories, three or five signatories, university professors, who put their signatures and how they thought. I believe there were things that weren't good. There's always them. I also believe in what's been said about the Medical School, that there may have been some rapid advances, but to a great extent, it must have been all fair and fair, in the spirit of the tradition of the university we live on. Because, you know, the university and life on it are special specifics. We've all been looking at ourselves for years, first as students, then assistants, interns, assistants, and then regular teachers, and then extraordinary teachers, and it means a lot to the spirit of the relationship that's being nurtured. But it's not good when you start manipulating people. Especially not good when someone else's kids are being manipulated. You know, something good came in on October 5th. The snow has fallen and many have shown the trail. Before October 5th, for those of us who were in public and knew who we were, that we belonged to one, to another or to a third party, we knew very well our party commitment, and that we wanted to work against our conscience, to manipulate our children, we couldn't do it. The tradition of the university is that when it enters the building of its university, politics cannot exist. It's a tradition of the university that when you enter an O.R. where other people's children are sitting, who have come to know, that you know that from where you're motherly, and that's the point. They were disabled, and they wanted people from the SPS and other parties that were in power to do so because they knew who they were. But that's why many worked, pretending to be independent, that they were intellectuals, but after October 5th, there they were in the government of the Republic of Serbia, there they were in G-17, there they were in the DSS, the DOS parties. After October 5th, we recognize who introduced politics to the university. After October 5th, we recognize who manipulated other people's children, took them out on the street for the sake of other people's interests, his own interests. Now we're on our own. Now, gentlemen, from Gas Knezevic, the minister of construction in the Serbian government, to many ministers in the federal government, in political parties, in G-17, you are now all gentlemen to be recognized. What are you doing now? Now you're introducing a student parliament. Instead of a student organisation, the Students' Union, which is a totally apolitical organisation, we now hear from Professor Gaš Knezevic's mouth that a student parliament is being introduced as a meeting point for political parties. What the hell are these kids doing here? In what state in the university is there a place to meet political parties? Do Republicans and Democrats at Ohio State University meet? Oh, guys, the university is a civil institution! The university is about knowledge, wisdom, not the meeting place of political parties. This introduction of the Union of Student Parliament is essentially an attempt to thank those who have formed student protests, i.e. "Resistance". Ceda Jovanovic is the case. He is right from the leader of the student protest to become vice-president of the Democratic Party, isn't that an example of how politicised the story was and how many students and youth worked as independent intellectuals, and here they are now in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, both in the federal government and leading people of many DOS parties. Now, that's only good after October 5th. Dear gentlemen, we're all here now. Now everyone knows who's where and I know that for sure, and that you will, you can't deal with politics at the university anymore, because youth is in a worse position than it was a year and a half ago. He must be paying your tuition. You hereby abolish the co-financing of the students. Tell them we're removing the co-financed students. Introduce their tuition. Is that your gratitude to those kids you were taking out on the street, so that you could come to power? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-11-0.u20064	The word has a minister of education and sports, Mr. Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-11-0.u20065	A lot of things, a lot of things said, are associated with the answer, but I have no intention of using it. However, something written here and I read, Mr. Ivkovic tried to show it differently. I will simply read again what I have already read: "A legally formed student parliament has two roles. The first is to find all the student organisations, similar to our assembly, which is the meeting place of political parties." It's not a student parliament meeting place, Mr. Ivkovic. You're a professor at the university, interpret words.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-11-0.u20066	Right on line, MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-11-0.u20067	Ms. Micic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the last line, not to defend myself, but to ask you, did you, as a professor of the Faculty of Civil Engineering, as a member of the Belgrade University Management Board, turn the phone to a colleague who lost his job? Did you introduce any students whose doors to the university are closed? Did you ever condemn the terror of hundreds of thousands of arrests and eventually become a member of the Belgrade University Management Board for writing in Spanish, or for listening to Slobodan Milosevic and Mirjana Markovic? In what language did Bojic write, in which language did Leposava Milicevic write, in which language did a Bija write? You made a party cell from the university, and that's why you created a political consciousness at the university that changed this Serbia, much more than anything that threatened you until then. And that's why in the future you're going to meet people who are conscious of that university, from that university, step into politics, to prevent any future like you from coming back and doing what you've been doing for years. I remind you that you have created a university left, that such an example does not exist in any other situation, and that you have denied yourself, not only as a teacher, but as a politician who chose the field on which he was sentenced to defeat. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-11-0.u20068	You're the one who caused the replica! According to the Rules of Procedure, you can't rephrase, what can you do, you have to abuse the Rules of Procedure!
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-11-0.u20069	My apologies, Madam Chairman, I do not abuse the Rules of Procedure, under Rule 98, I have the right to react to the misrepresented my statement.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-11-0.u20070	You don't have it because you're the one who caused the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-11-0.u20071	Then I won't abuse the Rules of Procedure. But what I'm saying is, surely, truth hurts hard.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-11-0.u20072	Are any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, answering for a word? No, I don't. ) We move on to a debate according to the application for a word in the principle debate. The People's MP Dusan Petkovic has the word, followed by MP Predrag Canovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-11-0.u20073	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the University Law Bill that is now on the agenda is actually an improved version of the 1992 University Act. The numerous interventions made in the text of the bill brought back autonomy to the university, which was practically abolished by the 1998 University Act. Compared to the existing solution, several of the most important papers of the law can be singled out: the role of the Republic Council for the Development of University Education has been restored, made up of rectors and proctors in the Republic and 10 members appointed by the Government; it plays a very important role and addresses very important issues of interest in the development of university action. Another important and characteristic thing - the advice of the university, the advice of the university, instead of the board of directors, returns. It's like the 1992 Law, but with major changes in the council. In the proposal for this law, Article 111 of the Council consists of 14 representatives of the university, two representatives of the student parliament and only six representatives of the government appointed by the government. In this way, it is important to ensure the autonomy of universities and universities in relation to state authorities. It took place in the earlier council, according to the 1992 law, that 50% of the government's representatives entered the council and that their role was mostly dominant. It happened that when the council decided, that is, when the half decided not to accept the proposal bigger on the dean's election or produced, it usually worked out for them, so the elections for the university's leadership lasted five to six months or more. A significant newspaper in the proposed text of the bill is the introduction of a student parliament, as a new form of organisation of students, in order to protect the rights and interests of students. The student parliament, as you have seen, chooses and relieves the student - procurators and students - prodeced, as well as its representatives in the governing bodies. They can also attend higher university sessions, i.e. higher colleges, and make certain proposals to achieve better quality teaching. The student parliament shall adopt rules of procedure. In the draft legislation on Parliament's working rules of procedure, or its constitution is not defined, we hope that this will be completed by means of a manual or a proposal. In Glava JII, the transitional and final provisions, Article 178, until the constitution of the student parliament, representatives of the governing bodies and students - the producers and the proctors are elected accordingly. So that's probably where you need some suggestions. When it comes to students, this bill is very favourable to them for the deadlines under examination: there are five, they have received five exams, and there is a possibility that the statute of the university can establish other deadlines. A large number of test deadlines affect, normally, the teaching course, or the disturbances sometimes the teaching process. This is particularly important in technical colleges where the presence on the course is very important. Maybe in some other colleges it's not that important, but in technical schools it's very important. Furthermore, this bill introduced a significant newspaper, introduced a three-way course, which is actually an attempt to correct something on students' success. It remains to be seen whether this system will work, since we have not had any experience so far. Over the past 30 years, there have been several amendments to the law on the university, and hence the corresponding changes in the statutes of colleges, curricula and programmes. The ongoing analysis of the success of students, which is at least once a year, revealed that the time of completion of the study was getting longer and that there was an average study of nearly 10 years in technical schools; I'm talking about the data I received in Nis. This situation has been affected by a number of factors, economic and political opportunities in the country, impaired values, war environment, economic blockade, fall of standards, and all leading to a loss of motivation for work. The length of the study has also been influenced by a number of amendments to the University Law that conditioned changes in plans and programmes, without any of their programmes being thrown out of anything, it has been constantly added. A constant new matter has been added, expanded, which has additionally and needlessly burdened students. Furthermore, instead of a number of simple objects, two-semed and three-semestray objects have been formed, which, of course, makes it difficult to save and pass exams. The introduction of a three-way course can change the situation in a positive sense, but this also requires a reduction of curricula and programmes. The problem of long-term study is not only our problem, it is also the problem in many countries of Europe. The average length of study gives everyone troubles and problems, too long study and too late involvement of students in professional life is a general problem. As a result, European universities slowly adapted to the opportunities that take place in the modern world, so the education ministers of 29 European countries agreed in June 1999 to start the process of reforming their universities and signed a declaration called the Bologna Declaration, which is in fact a European response to these problems, with a resolution by 2010. The aim of these reforms is to create European areas of education, to unify academic degrees throughout the European area. In the past period of isolation, the economic crisis in our country has changed a lot in the world, even at the level of university education. These changes in our environment need to be adapted as soon as possible. It will be a task of both universities and colleges and the resolution ministry. Reform should begin with fundamental reforms... (President: Mr. Petkovic, I warn you of an excessive amount of time. )......................................................................................................... immediately, and with clear objectives, a system of evaluation and accreditation, with rapid legislative changes, and if we want to become part of the European system. Regardless of the fact that this bill is not reformal, it is a transitional and temporary character, it is suitable for the current situation we are in and we will vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-11-0.u20074	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Predrag Canovic, and after that, MP Dragoljub Vojnovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-11-0.u20075	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government, the Law on the University is certainly one of the most important laws, given that vital activities are being carried out at the university, such as works in the field of educational, scientific, or artistic work. The proposed University Law mostly reiterates the provisions of the 1992 University Law. This, in our opinion, was one of the better laws, which has regulated many things from the work and life of the university in a more modern way, acceptable and then today. The 1998 university passed some changes in terms of rationalisation and simplification of some procedures, especially regarding university management and the choice of teachers and associates. Of course, when something is being overly rationalised and simplified, it can't be too democratic, but it certainly has been conditioned by certain circumstances in the country since 1998. The majority of the provisions of this bill do not make anything new or more modern compared to what was regulated by previous laws, which have never essentially made any major changes compared to previous university laws. The Soviet Education Committee has carefully analysed this bill, and we have come to the conclusion that the main changes in this proposed legislative project relate to the management of universities and universities, as well as to some of the regimes of studies, as well as to the authority of individual bodies of the university. However, what is particularly characteristic is that the main changes refer to the retroactive revision of the measures taken by then-authorised authorities, under the then applicable 1998 law. It is sufficient to read only Article 141 in the current bill, so it will be seen that, nevertheless, this member is basically the rematch of the current authorities according to those personnel who were authorized to work under the applicable law. However, because of this rematch towards individuals, unrest is being brought into those teachers and associates who were regularly and deservedly elected under the then applicable law. Turns out they were disabled, which their choice in multiple titles fell during the former, not the current authorities. In the opinion of the Soviet Union, this is unacceptable. Well, even if that were the case, those teachers and associates who were elected to multiple titles under that 1998 law were not selected for life. They are followed by a normal re-election, or choice, and some, or re-election, are now falling, some in a year or two. Now that that's the case, if these people don't meet the conditions for selecting more titles, don't choose them. We don't know what this rush is or why it's in such a hurry. Why there's unrest in thousands of people and their families. And not to mention some formal -- technical problems, which this revision pulls behind it. Take, for example, the application of this article in 141 in the current bill of law of a teacher to return or degrade to the calling of an associate. What will happen to the salary that this teacher received, or the difference in salary, because it's obvious that he was getting more pay than he was doing all this time. And if I stick to the pay gap, that difference should be returned. What about the lectures that that teacher gave? By law, these lectures should be annulled and other lectures organised for students. What about the students who passed the exams with those teachers? If we follow the law, all these exams should be annulled and reorganized. Therefore, it is obvious that these are some of the formal - technical problems that this revision entails, which are still unacceptable. On the other hand, what is particularly characteristic of this law is amnesty, or legalization, whatever you want, some oppose the procedures that are carried out during the 1998 current law. The best example for this is Article 141 paragraph 3. In this regard, they amnesty those deans, or those colleges that were working against the law during the 1998 law. It turns out in some way that it's going to mutilate illegal behavior, and that's really unacceptable. The Committee on Legal Affairs of the Assembly Group of the Soviet Union considers that Article 141 in the current Bill is against law and anti-constitutional, as it is retroactively carrying out a review of all procedures in the selection of teachers and associates, which were carried out under the applicable law which also passed this assembly, in this same hall. One can say that the law was not democratic, that the law was not good, that the law was dictatorial, however you wish, but it was a valid law passed by this same congregation in this same hall. After all, what this means: does this mean that when, in some of the next elections, another political option comes to power, that it should now pass a new law on the university, which will provide for a retroactive review or review of all elections in the higher callings that occurred during your rule? If that means that, then it's a circulatory viciosus, then it's a vicious circle that we're going to have a hard time getting out of. It is true that under Article 121(2). Serbia's constitution of certain provisions may have a feedback if the general interest is injured. However, we are interested in where the general interest has been injured here; the procedure found that the general interest has been injured and even that 10-15 teachers have been elected to multiple titles undeserved, there is no harm of general interest. After all, if the government wanted to return to university all those teachers and co-workers who lost their employment during the applicable 1998 University Law, it could have done so. Why is now harassing and causing unrest in thousands of people who have been properly elected to more calling. It is obvious that this is no longer about any violation of general interest, in order to take such rigorous measures as to revise all decisions made during the current 1998 law. Finally, I want to conclude, if the provisions of Article 141 are adopted and accepted, there will be far more serious consequences than they will be regulated, or, as the people say, there will be more damage than benefits. An amendment submitted to Article 141 of the current Bill of Law by the Honorable Faculty of Law in Kragujevac and the Rector of the Kragujeva University, Prof. Predrag Stojanovic, in some ways amortised, tempered the drasticity and radicality of this member. However, the Assembly Group considers that this member should be deleted almost entirely, except for Article 6 which provides for transitional provisions that are common in these situations. The Soviet Parliament group has submitted a large number of amendments to the university law. The government has accepted seven of our amendments, but I must point out that we are not satisfied with that fact either, because a large number of our quality amendments have been rejected, so I hope that MPs in the Republic Parliament will correct the government's mistake and accept at least one more of our amendments. A university law like this is not acceptable to our parliamentary group. After all, let me just say, since I'm a teacher of the Medical Faculty, I find it at least incorrect to give certain negative qualifications and grades about the professors of the Medical Faculty, and it's particularly unfair if those qualifications come from people who are not competent to do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-11-0.u20076	The word has a folk MP Dragoljub Vojnovic, followed by a folk MP, Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-11-0.u20077	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister, the long-awaited University Law is now in place. It's a relative term for a long time, because sometimes a year is a very long period that can cause great damage to one's performance as a university, which is essential, in my opinion, for a nation. I must say, it may sound anachronous to someone: to show the nation in its comprehensiveness, including statehood, it is necessary to have a parliament and university. All the rest are facts that arise from this and everything else are services and officials, and government, and local self-government, and police, and education, and even health care. That is why I would start from the European University Association (Europe University Association) that in many European countries, national laws have determined and justified the mission of their institutions, including universities. The universities didn't have to build specific missions on their own. In practice so far, not counting any direct or longer periods in our practice, it was also with us. Let's take a look at the reasons for this bill. Constitutional basis, as written, Article 72 paragraph 1 point 6. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which determines that the Republic regulates and provides for a system of education. That's the first reason. However, ladies and gentlemen, today's education in the world can be conducted by someone else or other institutions (e.g. Phillips is studying for his needs). In the world, education systems such as multinational companies are formed, and I don't think it's far from where the Oxford or Harvard branches will appear in our space, if the conditions are met. The second reason is that, according to the reasoning, it was necessary to put aside the 1998 Law because it eliminated the autonomy of universities and universities and the overall functioning of the university was put under direct control by the executive authority. I agree with that. The reasons are convincing, but archaic, unfortunately. The question is whether the autonomy of the university will be restored. And the second question is, Mr. Minister, is that it's not time we're already going beyond naked autonomy or at least to use that university autonomy as an instrument for further goals. I am going back to the conclusion of the European University Association. In many countries, this has changed. Now it takes the university to have a vision, to understand where this institution could go to the future. And so four strategic questions are asked: 1) what is the university trying to do; 2) how does the university try to do it; 3) how does the university know that it is effective; 4) how does the university change to improve? Like I said, in many countries this has changed. It is now necessary for the university to have a vision with us to understand where this institution will be in the future. From here comes the following question which determines that the organisation must answer: what kinds of education, research and "service" it provides and how do processes within the university support these activities? To what extent are the activities and processes consistent with the university mission? All these questions need to be answered by law, focusing their activities on these signs or definitions. The immediate question is whether this law covers these issues. In my opinion, certainly not. The second question is how is this law, conditionally said, an organized internal organisation of the university. I would say that by formally looking at this, let's call it an internal, an organization arranged in the way of the 1992 Law, because the reasoning of the law literally states: "The University Law is based on its 1992 Law on the University, but it is significantly redefined in relation to this text, so that it can be talked about the new text of the law. This is a law of transition and temporary character. "That's what it says in the explanation. The only thing I can't agree with is this last sentence in the quote, because it's not true, because it's actually partly and mostly prescribed by the 1992 Law, with all the features of self-government law, but not in terms of self-government of the university. I'll try to prove it. The increased role of the Republic Council in Article 118 may also be to respond to these previous questions. That's where I have to say the law isn't reform, I can even say it's insufficient. However, the hand on the heart, the law, and it can't cover everything; here for subjective reasons, because I believe, Mr. Minister, it's my right to say, it seems to me that the people on the team aren't, as my countrymen would say, "a lot of broken up" about this. The objective facts occur only when subjectives are removed, and the objective facts you really had to have, and that's where I would repeat the European Association of the University, which says - a complex and sometimes turbulent landscape of higher education, which now predominates Europe, and even wider, requires the university to behave, you said in your presentation, as coherent and cohesian units, which are mainly colleges, compared to all of this environment. There's no sign of the law of these elements either. In order for the university to know that its work is effective, it must possess feedback mechanisms, which are constantly present at the university, because the quality of research and education depends very much on the information that has been received. In this way, Mr. Minister, in my opinion, a circle that begins with a mission is closed, ending with feedback and using that information, the university is reformed, not because the government is informing him and not because he needs to replace the bad law - and it is true that the bad law of 1998 - but that these elements have forced him to reform. Mr. Minister, of course the university doesn't work in a vacuum. This sets up another central issue relating to the internal functioning of the university. This law, apart from what I have said, is how this central organization is viewed, and now an additional question arises regarding the external environment: who are shareholders, or participants in the financing of universities, who are stakeholders that affect its development and work, and is that a state? In earlier times, we had that it was a party, or party state. Whether it is now the government or other organisations, NGOs, donors; what is the economic situation, how it affects the functioning of the university; it is important as the government affects it. All these questions need to be answered by the law, establishing these indications. Especially with the fact that we have confidence, and here you have Mr. Minister's justification, on my part, that with the organization of the university we're all fine, we just lack financial resources. Our universities are slowly changing and slowly transforming. I have to say that there are some indications in the law, let's just say that the impact of students is greater. A member of the 64th and student parliament, which you spoke of and others, is mentioned, but apart from his conditionally listed ingenuities, it is not regulated how he will be established. I immediately ask the question - will it be an association, and you have partly answered various student organisations? Article 86 says that in the process of selecting teachers and fellow students, students can give an opinion on their teaching work. I agree with that. I think it's mandatory, because times have changed. There's no longer any way to work an ex-academia in amphitheaters. Modern means of communication have provided that a student with a professor can communicate with other modern means, the Internet and so on, but that in the process of selecting teachers and associates students can, and in my opinion they must, give an opinion on their teaching work. In the financial sphere, the funding of university work has some, unfortunately, to say cosmetics and not only unsettling newspapers, in the sense that the funds the university makes from article 134 are left to the university, that they can improve its functioning. These funds are special because, as far as I know, they went to the government balance as the founder, who assigned them to the university. Resemblingly, Mr. Minister, ladies and fellow MPs, this is a transitional law, which means temporary character. I've tried to show you how much of European education separates or sublimes, take what you want. It's clearly better than the existing, but it's not reformable. Democratic Party of Serbia MPs will vote for him in principle. We were prepared, I personally participated, over 18 amendments, but we tried to bring that part down from seven to eight amendments, because we think it takes as much to fix what is possible to fix these subsequent palitarian-cosmetic changes, and that we should soon pass a new law that, not to be exclusive, that someone can say and potential, but must contain all the hints and give answers to the questions that have been put forward. The closer, less fundamental and perhaps more detailed objections to this law will be spoken of by my distinguished colleagues from the Democratic Party of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-11-0.u20078	The word has a folk MP, Gordana Pop-Lazic, and after that, MP Mirko Rosic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-11-0.u20079	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, for the ministers of education Serbia had in its history, such as Stojan Novakovic, Ljubomir Nenadovic, Svetozar Pribicevic, it was certainly not a question of whether the university was a national or an international institution. He was a national institution to them, of national importance. Today, at the time of DOS and at a time when we have Professor Gaš Knezevic as a minister, he is an international institution, and the proof of this is a statement by the Minister of Education, which reads this, I quote on the possible reminder: "My first working day at work at the Ministry is running away in overcoming the mental problem that I am beginning to feel as my own," the minister of education said. He feels like a stranger and performs that high function. A week ago, perhaps something more, the Rector of the Maribor University visits the University of Kragujeva, which is where they sign the Charter of Cooperation, and before the signing of the Charter of the Maribor University says that the new law, which is to be passed in Serbia, should actually be a condition for the university to be analytical, as is the case with them in Slovenia. What do we have to cooperate with such a university, and all of course is done under the auspices of our minister and government of Serbia. You're all right, but it's happening and it's going to leave consequences for our children and young people, who the university needs to raise and educate. In light of the law, it is said that this law, referring to the existing 1998 law that is being attacked, has proved to be a very free instrument for violence, which has been resorted to by individual deans appointed by the government and as a suitable instrument for persecuting students, teachers and university associates. I agree, since October 5th, and if we knew that you would come to power, believe me, we would never propose or pass such a law. Where's the evidence for that? Here, the signature of our esteemed minister, Professor Knezevic, of 30 October 2000, writes with special respect to the rectors of the University of Serbia and says - if after 5 October 2000 you carried out the procedure for the internal appointment of V.D. Dean of the university, please inform this ministry within 24 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-11-0.u20080	Mrs. Pop-Lazic, please return to the agenda. The subject is not an analysis of the work of the minister, but a concrete legislative proposal and I ask you to return to the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-11-0.u20081	I'm talking about applying an existing law, and if you don't understand the problem, that's your problem. If you have not done so, the minister writes, you must do so within five days. This is not by law, an existing law on the university, but it says - if you do not comply with the above orders, the minister will be forced, although reluctantly, to use his powers under Article 123 of the existing University Act, which speaks of the dean of the university being appointed and resolved by the founder. The time of the law is right for him. The hour of the law doesn't suit him. You see what kind of personality that is and what it is, in fact, a double policy. Also, rectors, November 13th - I ask you to form representative committees at your colleges, with the aim of reviewing all decisions on promotions, reelections, elections and cancellations, which have been made by your deans, from the moment of entry into force of the current Law on University. Further procedures of choice, promotions or re-election of teachers and associates...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-11-0.u20082	Please start talking about a concrete bill on universities, not talking about free topic about universities. Please stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-11-0.u20083	... would take place in accordance with the position taken by the College of Rectors, on 10 November 2000; and these are crisis headquarters, which were created at that time. And point three says, if someone from the old administrative structure of the university is preventing your work, denying your deposited signature, please contact us urgently, by phone, in order to help you solve the problem. So, who's talking about terror here? Where's the more evidence of terror? We talked a lot about it, and we wrote books, as Gašo Knezevic, used and abused his function, expelled Professor Vojislav Seselj from the Faculty of Law.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-11-0.u20084	But that doesn't interest us at all, Mrs. Pop-Lazic, please, come back on the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-11-0.u20085	Well, I know you're not interested, but of course the public is interested. Today, he is ruling universities in Serbia -- the Civil Union of Serbia and the Democratic Party; Vojin Dimitrijevic, Slobodanka Turajlic, who is at the same time at the head of the so-called AOM, and Assistant Minister Vojin Dimitrijevic, allegedly an expert on international public law, for which everyone knows (but these KOSs have no time to deal with it) that he was a major liaison officer on October 5th with the CIA. I'm a little out of time, I don't want to take up time with my colleagues, but believe me, the subject suits me, I could talk for at least 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-11-0.u20086	You missed the subject, Mrs. Pop-Lazic, from the beginning to the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-11-0.u20087	Well, that's what you think, you never know what the subject is in this assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-11-0.u20088	The word has Professor Mirko Rosic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-11-0.u20089	Dear Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, in June 1999, education ministers of 29 European countries reached agreement to start the process of reforming their universities and sign a declaration that is in the university public, and I think beyond, known as the Bologna Declaration. This declaration, which provides for a convergence system of higher education in Europe, with the preservation of national, cultural and linguistic specificities, is the beginning of the process of creating a single European space of higher education. The process, according to the Bologna Declaration, will continue until 2010. It is obvious, therefore, that countries that have a much higher percentage of the highly educated population than Serbia, whose universities have a far longer tradition and whose items for higher education in the budget often exceed the total budget of Serbia, have determined the reform of their 11-year-old higher education system. The university's mission has changed significantly over time. He became less and less in charge of overseeing the spiritual life of the nation, and the need to put the entire functioning of universities and universities under the direct control of the executive government in time was becoming smaller and smaller. That is how the concept of university autonomy, which in its essence represents civilizational fluids, appeared. The 1998 law denied exactly that - the autonomy of the university, and put its functioning under direct and often brutal control of the executive authority. And, while Europe was at the same time going into university reform, fighting against the spirit of momentum, conservativeism and traditionalism at its universities, we are already isolated, intoxicated with our own conservativeism, shutting down the last lights of academic freedoms, putting the university in a tight ring of control by the state. In this context, it is also necessary to observe the proposal for a law on the university, which is today in front of us. However, before we have to answer a few questions clearly - do we want an inert, closed, pre-glazed and inefficient university or do we want to create a modern, efficient and flexible space of higher education, whether we want a university that will be directly controlled by the state or free itself from its founder? Do we want a university that will expect everything from the state - and money, and equipment, and projects, and consent to sublegal acts, and the choice and promotion of professors, and the registration policy, or the university that will expect only general rules in which they will do everything alone, in the free market of knowledge, whose borders will be wider than the state or not? I am convinced that the vast majority of the university and the general public in Serbia will always declare themselves positive for the second of the options offered. The university reform process in Serbia cannot be seen as a short-term state intervention; moreover, it cannot be a state intervention at all. The changes should be made by the universities alone, and as a long-term process, let's say, by 2010. That's why this law is a transitional and temporary character, but most importantly, this law gives the university enough room for maneuvering to succeed. As a result, this law has expanded the current maneuvering space -- above all, the envisaged composition of the university and university management body clearly indicates that the university's autonomy is being pursued, compared to the state authorities. The role of the Republic Council for the Development of University Education has also been strengthened, which, although envisioned by the 1992 law, has never been brought into practice. Students were provided with significant participation in managing bodies at universities and universities through the form of a student parliament. A significant part of the matter, which has so far been regulated by law, is left to the statutes of universities and universities. In just a few chapters of this law, there are more than 50 members, whose legislator extends the area of autonomous legal legislation to the statutes and general acts of the university, i.e. the university. But by doing so, the university's responsibility in the long and difficult way of reform is passed on to the university itself. Bringing new statutes of universities and universities in the coming period will also be the first test of maturity, flexibility and willingness to change our system of higher education. It is predicted that universities and universities can establish incubators and innovation centres. Will we be able to overcome our own inertness and at the university use this legal basis to launch creative energy in the direction of transfer of knowledge and technology, remains, of course, our problem. The university re-returns university libraries, as well as institutes where there is a competent teaching and scientific staff and built infrastructure. It is up to us to, freely, in the most efficient way to integrate ourselves into the composition of the university of this unquestionably professional, scientific, spatial and other potentials. What didn't this law solve? The fact is that our universities are some kind of, let me express myself more freely, a confederation of more colleges. The colleges within the university are mutually separate, independent from a university that, without enough cohesion elements, represents a loose community of colleges, threatening to seriously endanger its efficiency and stability. The fact is, however, that at this point, the solution to these problems through a legal act, so through the intervention of the state, would not be possible without seriously disrupting the autonomy of corporate elements of the university, with, I would say, too harshly subtracting acquired rights from colleges. It seems to me that the order of moves has been properly selected. First, therefore, a transitional law that provides an extended area of autonomous legal regulations to universities and universities within which universities themselves will strengthen the cohesion forces among their members, insisting on multidisciplinaryism, forming common cathedrals, laboratories, incubators or innovation centres, their own sublegal acts, and then reform law that will find its inspiration in practice. With the hope that our universities will make the most of the legal basis offered for the first step in the reform of higher education, and accepting great wisdom that of all steps it is the first one, I will vote, of course, for this bill on university law. Several of my amendments, which I tried to dress up a few trees without affecting the appearance of the forest, unfortunately the government did not accept. For at least one of them, I'll try to make further arguments in the discussion in detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-11-0.u20090	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Ljubisa Maravić, followed by Prof. Dr. Nenad Lemajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-11-0.u20091	The Honorable Presidency, fellow MPs, Mr. Minister, not only in these areas but throughout the globe to have a university as an institution means to be respected in human civilization. We are aware of that, our ancestors were aware of it, so immediately after the initial victories in the First Serbian uprising, they took a serious approach to the creation of an educational system of the restored Serbian state. Just enough to say that it was Dositej Obradovic who came to Serbia from the then Austro-Hungarian Empire for this reason. It is widely known that the diplomas of our universities are highly appreciated in developed Western countries, because our finished students on average have incomparably wider and deeper knowledge than is the case of many of their colleagues who have similar degrees. However, it is less known in these areas that certain highly developed countries have a large number of universities, of which some three-digit numbers, and that they are ranked by the degree of the quality of diplomas they give; thus, a diploma from one of the ten leading universities in practice is more valuable than a doctorate from a university located at the bottom of that list. Dear fellow MPs, in such competition, the diplomas of many of our colleges would be more valuable there than their domestics, and they are highly ranked. Given that this is a transitional law, I fear that due to the transitional changes in our high-quality and respected education will be generally reduced to the level of Western university model, which equidists individual degrees of education, and that is why our country does not need to amputate one of the basics in such a difficult situation, which is highly educated personnel. We have been witnessing lately that at the expense of our world-renowned colleges, priority is given to newly established schools, the seminary type, which do nothing like mushrooms, and whose diplomas are not respected by their foreign finances. Does this not mean returning to a system of diplomas that were only valid for the Balkans, which was widespread in practice between World War I and Second? As a Serb from Kosovo and Metohija, I want to remind you of the period of establishment of the University of Pristina and of all the problems he has been through, given that this law will apply to it. In the 1970s, at the time of the establishment of the University of Pristina, the idea was to create assumptions about the emancipation of citizens, regardless of national, religious, ideological and other belongings, as well as to enable dynamic and scientific and cultural development. This initial premise proved to be very illusory in a short time. The extremely tuned Albanian political elite, the University saw as a protagonist practicer of the Albanian secessionist project and used it intensively to spread its hostile ideas and actions. At the University of Pristina, only enormous efforts and the struggle by a large number of university students, students, courageous, intelligent, patriotically defined staff, successfully preserved classes in Serbian. The new dramatic coups of the University of Pristina are experienced especially after NATO aggression, and activity takes place in very difficult and reduced conditions; but despite numerous difficulties, since the day of its exile from Pristina, over 2,000 students graduated from Pristina, 37 candidates received their doctorate and 52 master's degree. There are rare situations in history that a university may be exposed to such difficulties as have been met by the University of Pristina. Just as the Belgrade University is a cradle of modern Serbian learning and a status symbol of the Serb people, wherever he is, the Pristina University is a "eternal tooth" for all of us Serbs who are determined to stay in Kosovo and Metohija until the day of judgment. That is why I appeal to all the state authorities of this country, whatever our country is called and whatever it will be called for in the future, not to forget about our University of Pristina and to help us maintain it as the state university of this country, because then, as such, it will keep hope of our existence in these sacred Serb spaces. Finally, I appeal to all MPs of the assembly majority to give up those solutions which, with their retroactiveness, pave the way for the creation of evil blood at our universities, and I suggest that, by adopting the SPS amendment to Article 141 of the proposed law, we put an end to all this in order to prevent possible malfeasance and abuse in the future, possible remandism and the opening of many other issues related to the examination of students and others. For these reasons, I urge you once again to accept the proposed SPS amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-11-0.u20092	The People's Messenger Nenad Lemajic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the People, Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-11-0.u20093	The President-in-Office, honourable Members of the People, Mr Minister, is presently facing a law that should regulate relations at the university, certainly one of the most important institutions in the field of education and science, whose activity also has a significant impact on our society as a whole. In this regard, we must approach the adoption of this law with special attention, aware of all the indirect, even the direct consequences that this law, or the area governed by the law, can cause society as a whole. The overall progress of a country, both technologically and in areas related to the development of society, for the development of a national economy, certainly reflects on the university itself. The National University is something that we must stand by with extreme attention and therefore this activity must be under the special care of the state. That confirms a series of examples in the world. If we look at the experiences of all the more developed countries, all the more serious countries, they approach their universities with extreme attention; and of course, if we look at Serbia's experiences from the beginning of the last century -- at one important moment, the state found the strength to start a university and bring it relatively quickly to the level of European universities. The extraordinary efforts that were then made were the results, so in the period before World War II, we had a university that we could really be proud of. Later, the university was pushed aside, losing many strategic functions, and getting new ones that had been inappropriate in many ways and that by nature things had to solve other institutions. Expecting from this bill much, in some ways we got quite little. The entire university public had been in the debate for a long time, regarding the law, we expected that much would be done, that an extraordinary reform law would be passed, and now that the proposal had come, we see that it wasn't much further from those initial principles. I will state the government's argument where it is said -- it is necessary to put aside the 1998 University Act. Indeed, it is necessary and this law has been done, however, in the further explanation it stands - the University Law proposal is based on the 1992 university law, but has been significantly reformed in relation to the text. I really wouldn't agree with that. It's somewhat reformed, but it doesn't matter reformed. We're mostly standing on that level from 1992. We must not forget that there are six state universities in Serbia, with more than 80 universities and that this is the key educational and scientific potential of Serbia. At this point, about 140,000 people are studying at these universities, teaching nearly 10,000 teachers and associates. It seems to me that the legislators of this law have had to legally standard three key problems, which our university, or universities, have been facing over the past decade. The first one is related to regulation of state and university relations as a specific state institution. The university, of course, is a state institution in which the most important and most meaningful human potential of our country should normally be concentrated. That is why it is natural for this institution, precisely because of the people who work in it, to leave quite broad autonomy which also represents the state's trust in the intellectual elite of the country and our intellectual potentials at the university. It is a tradition that is very long and respected too quietly in times when there were far fewer democratic rights in this country, excluding the post-1998 period. Secondly, it seems very important to me, the problem is to organise a better education at the university. This should be adapted to the needs of the present and also to the perspectives of future development and social movements. The third problem is related to the fact that universities are not only educational but also first-class scientific institutions and therefore it is necessary in an optimal way to regulate the relationship between the teaching and the scientific work of university activities. The bill makes it clear that the authors among these three problems -- the degree of autonomy of the university, the quality of teaching and the relationship of teaching and science -- essentially paid attention and found good solutions only for this first one. As far as university autonomy is concerned, the bill is not bad, which does not mean that this issue of amendments could not be more precise and more qualitatively defined. In this regard, the Democratic Party of Serbia parliamentary group has given several amendments that seek to further correct individual members of the law. Here, a kind of accepted practice was created at the university after October 5th, when the state gave up the possibility of using restrictive provisions of the applicable law, and the university itself used it to regain, until then, most of the lost, autonomy. But the university doesn't exist just for itself. The university does not exist solely because of the autonomy of the university. It is that in the previous period the university was extremely politicized. The fact is, just now, from the university's space, key actions have taken place to bring us down to where he brought us, but we can't live in this historic framework of outstanding politicization of the university and that we're only dealing with this aspect. Those two remaining important elements that should have been done better in this law seem to me not to be sufficiently innovated by this law, and what little innovation gives us even worse solutions than in the current 1998 law. That college and university classes are bad, below the required standards, there's no need to explain, because it's more - less common. As a result of such a teaching, more than half of the students enrolled never graduates from college. Lawmakers' proposals on teaching issues are even worse than previous legal solutions. They just seem to go hand in hand to students and better quality study. On the contrary, I would say that some members are turned to bad students, allowing them to pass a number of exams in the coming year, that lost years do not pay, and even to absorb from only a few exams passed in individual schools, which depends on the curriculum. It's amazing what effort has been made to help bad students. They are dedicated to six members of the law, unlike successful students, dedicated to only one member of the law. I don't know if that's the point of the law -- at any cost in the studies, to keep those who aren't for study, and to let our most talented students do their best to get along as they know and know it, usually until the first call abroad. If that was the proposaler's intention, then the bill in this section is successful. I guess that wasn't the intention. Is there still some kind of devil triangle at the university, between the state, the professor and the students, where all the bridegrooms are being made, and the ultimate result is the destruction of some solid high school class? The state does not pay how a huge and pre-named community of universities should, professors who are underpaid are looking for sources of income outside the university, often leaving classes to assistants, and students, when they have no quality teaching, can continue to renew their years, pass exams -- ultimately, the consequences of all this has been ruined by the university. That's what we had in the previous period. I personally expected this law to move forward, that the university would really start working much better. Let me remind you, the average time of study is about eight years. There's a college where the average college is ten-and-a-half years, and only 12% of students enrolled at the university finish their studies on time. The question is, why would proposing a bad practice, which occurred during the past two decades, continue to encourage and further legal standards. Will the next decade be the primary task of the university to entertain, hire young people and get them off the street when I can't get a job. Therefore, if we want the university to be no longer a social institution, which unfortunately has become, we need to make a more radical break with current practice. While in those environments that have a much longer university tradition than ours and also a longer democratic tradition, a much more mobile system of study has long been approached, which develops creativity among students, and already in the study phase enables specialization for certain areas of our, rather than often giving them knowledge that is unnecessary to students, but at the time they pass the exam, it also objectively encourages the unhappiness and students to turn the study into a passive observer, instead of allowing them to study continuously and actively to continue, but at the end of the semester, to pass exams. In a country where about 33,000 students are enrolled each year, about 12,000 students are completed, the government should be more serious about this fact. The question of science at the university, in addition to teaching, should be the second strategic definition of the state. In addition to the fact that, in my opinion, too few members are dedicated to this issue, they only indicate it in contours, with no more precise and clearer definition of this area. The enormous potentials of the university have often not been used in the best possible way, because it is not the precise normative relationship between the teaching and scientific work obligations of the university staff, both at this time still in force and in this proposal of the law on the university we are discussing. It is not clear that the relationship with purely scientific institutions that have in practice received important incentives for their work is closely linked to scientific workers from the university. Some of this can, of course, be corrected by various sublaws and should be corrected by various sublaws, above all by the statutes of the university, etc. Like this, I'm not gonna say bad, but the soft legal framework for essential reforms will make it difficult for quality regulation of matter. To sum up in the end -- this law is one in a series of unspeakable legal proposals from the government. The DSS can support this proposal, because it's something better than the previous law, and it's especially good at regulating university autonomy. We have to ask the authors and the Ministry of Education -- how from the great ideas at the initial stage of lawmaking we came to an unspeakable and, I would say, an anachronous proposal. I'm afraid that even after the adoption of this law, the university will continue to carry out two actions, which it has worked in practice in the previous period. The first was and was to take care of finished high school kids without a job and remove them with a sauce, which was the practice of some in the previous period. The second is the unprofitable export of our most talented young people who, with a university like this, are unable to truly demonstrate all their creative potentials here. I personally believe that the assessment of the university public will be one very weak six, and I am convinced that the legislators of the law will be widely seen through their fingers, and that is only if we accept that this is really a transitional solution with which we need to break up as soon as possible and if we accept that we will get to this law very quickly, if we do not write again, and that in a significant part we are innovating. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-11-0.u20094	The word has been made by MP Miodrag Stamenkovic. By the Rules of Procedure or by the replica? The People's Messenger wants a replica, and it is the basis of the discussion of the MP of the people, Nenad Lemajic? No party mentioned, no name mentioned. (From the O.R.: Yes. Here you go. The word has been issued by MP Bora Stanimirovic, a representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-11-0.u20095	There's no quorum, but the replica will be able to go. A colleague spoke of a politicized university and that everything at the university was destroyed from July 1998 until October 5th. I was just saying that practically after October 5, to this day, more was done in what my colleague was talking about than was done until October 5th. Why is that? There are many reasons. First, when the law was passed in 1998, its application began about July 1998, without any retroactiveness, without rematchism, except for the part that obliged teachers to sign a labor contract. Now the Labour Act requires everyone else to do the same. Therefore, it can be accepted. Second, a colleague didn't say anything about crisis headquarters that went straight to universities and colleges, doing mass teacher shifts, which we heard earlier. The Minister of Education practically without any decision of the teaching - scientific council, applying that member or the Law since 1998, could appoint directors, deans, teachers, etc. Third, a large number of teachers are out of work. No one here listed the reasons: whether because they didn't want to sign; or if there was a large number among them abroad; and after a few months they didn't teach, they took students to the streets. So how could they work at college? That's the real reason. Therefore, do not keep using that we have done so badly from July 1992 to October 5th. Look, we've been going back to the law since 1998, which the Socialists practically adopted. What does that mean?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-11-0.u20096	The People's Messenger Miodrag Stamenkovic has the word, and after him, the MP Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-11-0.u20097	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, dear guests, and especially young people, I am afraid we will adopt this law with a lot of apologies and pale discussions, due to the mostly pale solutions this law offers. However, such a law and a period of harmonisation of this real life with legal regulation as a university worker can be understood, knowing the fact that our massive system of higher education is inert and difficult to rise from lethargy, and indeed individuals who had some privileges, and that even refers to universities, are hardly denied. In addition to all this, in this law, of this temporary, transitional nature, I only hope that this temporaryity will be truly temporary, some things must be commended. For example, I will not talk about that 1998 law, because we talked a lot before and after October 5th, but it is commendable to return the role to the Republic Council, i.e. reducing the government's authority in the university-related work; then, the composition of the governing body; and then, the student parliament, where I only disagree with the finding given in the explanation, that this is a significant democratic flow of student protests. For me, it is just a reflection of the necessity of students getting involved in the decision-making process at the university, and they, thank God, have rebelled before, and will continue. Therefore, it is not a finding that it is only a democratic flow of student protests. To praise it is to adapt to modern methods of teaching, an extended area of autonomous regulation, as the only reform step. I must commend the introduction of incubators and innovation censors at colleges, because the scientific and research work of the university so far, although it is one of the basic, also weakens the performance of the university, because, especially in the last decade of the past, scientific and research work has served only as a social. There were a lot of projects, a lot of results. In this way, through the projects, the Ministry touched the orphanages, in a way and slightly increased the standard of university professors. But we had, on a number of levels, an exceptional difference between the results of research and the state of technology transfer and production in our country. Production is what it is. So, all that knowledge and all that results weren't applied because they weren't applicable. Incubators, the innovation centers should change this situation significantly. This law, however, is not enough incentive to shake up and wake up sleeping universities and to use this vast and very inert system for development purposes. That's why I think it is necessary to make a new reform law, not only on the university, but also on scientific and research activities, because these two segments have to be extremely coordinated. We from the New Serbia parliamentary group will vote in favour of this law, because it is necessary to bring the real situation into line with inadequate legal legislation, but I say once again, we insist on the temporaryity of this law, because, among other things, we fear that this law will be a brake for those colleges that will precede the reform process. In order not to be a brake, we need to replace it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-11-0.u20098	This concludes the morning part of today's session. The afternoon section starts at 15.00 hours. The first MP is Branislav Blazic. The session of the Foreign Affairs Committee, scheduled for today at 1400 hours, is postponed for Tuesday at the same time.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-11-0.u20099	Dear ladies and gentlemen, please insert identification cards into the MPs to determine the quorum. I'm guessing we have a quorum. We are continuing to discuss the proposal for a law on the university, and according to applications for the word of the MPs. The word has the People's MP Branislav Blazic, followed by the folk MP Bojana Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-11-0.u20100	Ladies and gentlemen, the University of Belgrade was and remained a place where banishments often took place; where often and always the stumbling block was national and international; the conflict of professors who represented the desire to create a Serbian national university and professors who at some time taught at that university were either under the influence of communist ideology, international or today under some other influence, again some international ideology. We cannot avoid undermining the parallel between 1971 and the persecution, the hickeys of Professor Michael Đuric, a man who was only professionally discussing constitutional amendments and in 1971 experienced persecution from his colleagues and sentenced to two years of strict imprisonment; only because he tried to defend Serbian national interests at the Faculty of Law in Belgrade, all in the name of the people, in some dark courtrooms and convictions, the political trial condemned Mr. Mihajlo Đuric, from his students or from his colleagues. Processes and persecutions around universities and in other countries are present, but there has never been as much professional and human indifference as in Serbia. Also, the arrival of this new government is something similar at Belgrade University. There is once again a conflict of national and international, only once again favoured by an international power. It is happening again that politics enters the university at a large door, creating pre-conditions in terms of manipulation of young people, creating all the organisations needed to realise a plan for the collapse of the Belgrade University and climate to justify everything that happened in the previous period under some false democracy and story, an imperfect democracy. We cannot not compare that in 1971, Professor Michael Djuric and the hickey who was created immediately by the arrival of DOS to power Professor Vojislav Seselj. Something similar, probably in some other time of life, with a completely different ideology, but one and the other shows that politicisation is the highest presence at Belgrade University. Speaking of autonomy in this law, we can look at it from two angles. One is the autonomy of what is professional and scientific, and the other is autonomy whether the state, as such, should interfere with the political and other organisation of the functioning of the university. It is not possible to talk about university autonomy if young people, students, are organised in a parliament, trying as much to filter out politics and thus ensure the autonomy of lecturers who receive salaries from other countries. So we can't talk about autonomy if we have lecturers who are indoctrination and paid from other countries. What is certain, and it is a lost freedom, but I hope that this people have kept hope, and while there is hope, there is also the possibility of bringing that freedom back. The same will remain at the university when this law is passed. But I only hope one thing is that maybe some other law that's passed will not start with some steel brooms and cleaning, again some professors by other professors, because they're one professor for this kind of ideology and another for another. Surely, that threshold of their discipline or the threshold of subjection, the threshold of blind belief in what they are ordered from some political cabinets, will slowly cease to be significant. On that day, when this happens and the University of Serbia is completely depolitized, all these hickeys and persecutions, which have unfortunately made up our reality for decades, will likely disappear.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-11-0.u20101	The word has a folk MP Bojana Aleksic, followed by a National MP, Slobodan Tomovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-11-0.u20102	One of Serbia's first pre-election promises during the 2000 campaign was the abolition of two anti-civilisation laws: the Information Law and the University Act of 1998. As we can all remember, this first, Information Law, was abolished right after the constitution of this call by the Serbian Parliament. I can't help but wonder why it's been waiting until today to end this other one, nothing less bad. The complete democratic public in Serbia, and especially the people of the university, have long been expecting this day. But, well, he better have come today than we've been waiting for more. We all advocated the autonomy of the university in the campaign, and I can't help but wonder today whether this law really brings autonomy back to the university, given that it's some modified 1992 law. Whether the law allowed the autonomy of the university or it was one first of all self-ruling law and not to confuse a little bit all together with self-government with democracy. The 1992 Law is much more affirmative solutions than essential autonomy. But as we of the Democratic Party of Serbia have already said, it is better than the 1998 law continues. We tried a little bit of amendments to improve this law, primarily by investing in the amendment that the university's dean is choosing a curricula, which is, in our opinion, and in the view of the democratic public in Serbia, the institution of the university's autonomous rights. According to the dean's bill, he chooses the council of colleges. In the university council there are also representatives of founders i.e. Governments, under the current proposal of six founders, although the Committee on Education accepted an amendment that reduced the number to four, two representatives of the student parliament, although the Educational Committee accepted the amendment to increase the number to four, and 14 representatives of the university, 12 of which elects a larger college and two other employees. I've already had a debate with the Minister on the Education Committee whether it's essentially similar. It is similar, because as we can see in the college council, most of the representatives have members of the teaching and scientific council. But why don't we go all the way to the end, why don't we just hand over what we promised them, since the minister himself had a dilemma in that sense. I hope that this assembly, after discussion in particular, will accept such a solution and that at last, at least one of these pre-election promises will be fulfilled in this way. But I can't say that this law has a lot of bureaucratic provisions. For example, it seems to me again that it takes many years for teachers to move from calling to calling, from a doctor, to an extraordinary professor, to a regular professor. I'm under the impression that we're still going to have some pretty time regular professors, with seven heads, and it would be much better if this law would allow this process to be accelerated and at least the most capable to be able to move faster and faster to reach the calling of a regular professor. In Western countries, which are our role model for many things, even when it comes to the university and when it comes to the organisation of universities, this process takes place much faster. In addition, the law is somewhat civil and has a lot of vertical connection in it. For the functioning of the university, a valid board of directors, with the president, would be sufficient, which would sort of be the manager. The university should confirm the choice of teachers, which should be provided by the university and the university to provide first-class experts, and through them a high-quality manager, who would be able, along with the organisation of the teaching and scientific process, to provide income without which we cannot talk about the real autonomy of the university. Because as long as the government is the only one to fund the university, or to the greatest extent, autonomy, essential autonomy will be gone. This means that institutes should be developed, scientific work should be developed, practice should be developed, which will eventually be able to start funding itself. Until then, teachers will still be only government officials, who, whether they want to or not, still have to listen to what the government tells them and that in key moments, they are just implementing government policy. The bureaucratic influence is also present when conditions are laid down for enrolment in master's and doctoral studies. This is where the number that determines the potential talent is fetished. Well-assembled tests would be much clearer to reflect the level of general culture and the mastery of expertise, as well as fresher ideas in scientific work. I can't help but wonder -- why isn't there a rehabilitated habitation in this law that carries a recognised expertise? Our society needs, above all, experts, as well as professors, as many scientists, who will develop science, in which they will do research. They, the best experts, can best form well-recognized experts, although many improvements have been made in this law compared to the previous law; scientific institutions and institutes have been returned to the frameworks of Belgrade University, as well as the University Library, but I think that the perspective should go beyond that. The university should be a set of free people, teachers and students, which would provide frameworks and enable the transfer of knowledge and skills needed to carry out the profession. The impact of the state itself would have to be limited. The university should be responsible, legal, educational and social university, which sets out its own strategies and priorities in studying and research, which directs its resources, profiles training and sets criteria for selecting teachers and students. The universities need to work in a competitive environment, which means they have to have competition to achieve the desired quality. We know that again at this very moment it is the Bologna Declaration, which some of my predecessors have already called here, which we ourselves are seeking, which would have us back into the coverage of the European University, where reforms are currently in progress, based on the Magna Chart of the universal document, that it is necessary to develop competition, that it is necessary to provide freedom in governance and support for such freedom, above all within the legal framework. I can't help but wonder, is the legal framework that we bring here today enough for that? I'm afraid not, and I'm afraid we'll still have to work on it a lot. But since this law is a transitional law and I suppose its duration will not be long, I hope that the university itself, along with the MPs, will, probably in some other assembly, soon pass a real law on the university, which will bring us back to the frameworks of that European university, in which, of course, we will retain everything that is of our greatest national interest. But it should not be forgotten that the university is an institution of the highest national importance.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-11-0.u20103	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Slobodan Tomovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-11-0.u20104	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, the fact that the University Law on the basis of the University Act was adopted in 1992 and the circumstance that the SPS decided to participate in the adoption of the law should profile my discussion in the direction of affirming this proposal, and possibly giving appropriate support. However, some of the solutions, which are included in the proposal offered, as well as an explanation of the reasons why the existing law should be abolished and adopted new ones, have defined me as giving you arguments that make me think that this law, without proper finishing and amendments, should not be accepted. Let's start in order -- it's said first that this is a law of transition and temporary character. If that were the case, it was simpler today if we had passed a law amending the 1992 Law and supplementing the tadzakon, because we would have added some members, and we would have left what was already prescribed, and we would have made the matter simpler. But maybe it's the intention or the idea of a proponent to work by method -- why simply, when it can be complicated. What I particularly want to criticise this occasion is cartoonal descriptions and explanations, I am talking about the reasons why the 1998 Law should be abolished, although I have no intention of defending it in particular. But I have to notice that here they are said to appear -- they're foreign beings of the university, they come from the application of this law, and so far they're not all registered; so they say -- they're listed as typical; and then they're the mass presence of armed persons in colleges, of individual teachers chosen or employed directly by applying this law, by parapolitans, etc.; in style -- here Al Capone at one university, there's John Dillinger, and at the universities local delinquents, as much as you want and wherever you want. Well, this 1998 law wasn't allowed. It's not even settled by this law, because this law doesn't tell us how we're gonna stop someone from coming to college armed. This is being solved by other laws, in other ways and in other bodies, I guess it's clear to all of us, but it seems to us that we should have used this one in explanation, too, to say that it's all black that niggers can't be. Well, then, further - mass layoffs, disciplinary punishment for teachers and students, led to 200 teachers and associates being far away, etc. If 200 is a total number, let's see if that's mass relative to another number, to the total number of employees. And if there's something over 200, which is mass. Let's quantify it. Let's see if it's two or three thousand, not to give a flat rate and not to use it. Uncontrollable mass enrollment of students -- well, that wasn't allowed by that law. How is this law prevented? Where do you say that? There must be some criteria. There's something. Self-willed dean acts - so it wasn't allowed, and now it's not allowed. And, as the crown of everything, it says -- the unfair and harmful consequences of the application of this law in a time that is not short, because in May it turns out to be three years old, must be removed legally. In order to achieve that goal, no other legal solutions to those offered in Articles 1, 2 and 4 shall be seen, which means retroactiveness. Well, it can't be, gentlemen, that we're not able to come up with any other solutions. Well, it's not like you're offering us the ideologies of the Red Commers that say, before we do anything, now we're starting a new period, and let's measure the time from that new period. Well, if that's the case, then let's see why this law has been in force so far, why haven't we changed it before, how many appointments, re-elections, choices, etc. in the period from the adoption of the law until 5 October, and how much after that. Because of the public, I think it's a good idea to talk about it and say which are one and what are the other figures. What is now offered as retroactiveness, given that it has already been adopted and is in application and in some other laws, simply now creates the Institute of retroactiveness. It probably drives those who will come after us to reach out to that institute to apply it, which is something that necessarily generates rematchism, that we don't talk about that rematch and that no one needs it. For these reasons, I think that members who involve retroactiveness, who are called upon to do so and who say that this should be a crown matter in this law, I think they are unacceptable, because, as someone today said, I think that we should leave new councils, new deans, the advice that according to the procedure provided for in this law is seen in new re-elections, elections, etc. - what it's gonna do. Because I guess someone should take care of the students who passed the exam with a professor, and now he's not a professor, so whether he's going to be recognized or not; and there's a series of things. It is not necessary, as for the crown solution, to reach out for those who draw on rematchism and involve some repression. By the way, I'd like to say something more concrete about individual members. For example, Article 10 states that the university can establish a republic, legal and natural persons, and then it is said - if it performs its work abroad, if there is a social interest, it can, with the consent of the founders, and according to the government's prior consent, do so abroad. If, as a physical person, I get the opportunity to start a college, if I'm going to do it abroad later, I don't know what the government is doing to me. Well, she didn't even help me when I started college. I don't know why I'd have to do that at the time. Furthermore, in Article 133, it is said that the university, i.e. the university, whose founder is the Republic, determines the level of tuition for students and everything else. I think that's where it should be, so in this law, say and recommend some standards, not to happen, for example. that enrolment at the University of Kragujevac is not how much I know, and in Belgrade is much bigger, and there so much, so the application exams so much, etc. It seems to me that there should be some standards and that should be the case. I can understand that the higher cost of living, say, in Belgrade than elsewhere, so maybe that's why something needs to be done, but it can't be chaotic, it can't be how it comes to mind. Standards should exist. Finally, in this area where criminal provisions are spoken of, I think that fines are intended for both the college and the individual of the small, and as far as the individual is concerned, if the individual registers someone who has no right or has no right to do anything in what is said here, allow me, gentlemen, it's not a crime for me, it's a crime of abuse of official office and it should be sanctioned, because it's not a small offense and it's not a small thing. I hope that the motionary on this -- what I'm talking about now, what they're talking about or what my colleagues are talking about, the SPS MPs and the others -- will take care of it, and will give us a chance, respecting something that we are extremely well-intentioned about from this pay phone, that in the end, we might change our opinion that this law, as it is at this point, is not to be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-11-0.u20105	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Vlasimir Budimovic, followed by MP Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-11-0.u20106	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, respected members of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen, dear guests, the Law on the University, which is finally before us, is the beginning of democratic and organisational changes and resolving the status of the intellectual and professional affirmation of our future, our children. The set of laws that are ahead of us is the beginning of a long-term process that aims to reinfit a profession, which has been completely demoted and reduced to absurdity over the past period. The start of the reform of the education system in the coming years must lead us into the European and world system of conservation. In this business, we must not repeat the mistakes of earlier reforms, and there were about 10, which were made in haste, overnight, across the knee, with expressed political connotations of the political government. In some of your discussions, in this period, from October to today, in this segment of our society, a lot of things have been done. I would point out during this discussion only a few that were done in parliament in the meantime, which is the following - the situation which was found in the education of January 2001, i.e. the debts of higher schools and colleges for material costs, amounted to 177.100,000 dinars; the debt was reduced to 80,000,000 in December 2001. During that period, 413,800,000 dinars were paid by the Ministry of Education on behalf of the unmistakable and current material costs. Furthermore, with the problem of the University of Pristina, Kosovo and Metohija, the government of the Republic of Serbia has made a solution to the temporary change in the head office of the University of Pristina in Kosovo Mitrovica, as well as to the university in the form of that university since 19 October 2001. The government of the Republic of Serbia has concluded that students of the transferred universities of the University of Pristina, if they wish, are allowed to continue their studies in the relevant universities on the narrow territory of the Republic of Serbia, by free choice. In agreement with UNMIK in school 2001/2002. The year in Mitrovica region has provided locations for the Technical, Teacherly, Medical, Legal, Philosophy, Faculty of Physical Culture and the Academy of Arts, and by the beginning of the school year 2002/2003, with the help of UNMIK, will also provide locations for the Faculty of Economics, Natural-Mathematic and Agriculture. Also, the basis and regulation of curricula and programmes in Kosovo and Metohija were set. Serbian students in Kosovo and Metohija are working on our curriculum and programme, and it is agreed that this is the way to reform education in Kosovo and Metohija. As for college tuition, you witnessed that during this period, respecting the principle of autonomy at universities, the Ministry of Education and Sports let colleges determine the level of tuition. It's just some basic segments, probably more, that were done in this period, to get to the university law, which had a very wide public discussion, started from all colleges, universities, students' unions, and it was considered in a long and comprehensive procedure. So there was a full public debate at all universities to get a better transition solution. What's been done and what's going on with this university law? I would point out just a few things, which is that the basis and some goal was primarily to increase the autonomy of universities and universities, in terms of organisation and governance. Another big thing for me is the introduction of a student parliament, a body that will protect the rights and interests of students and enable the active involvement of students in university life. In no later than a month on this, drafts on student organisation will be held in public debate, and the creation of this draft will be attended by the Education Ministry working group, in collaboration with all student organisations; I would give a single personal suggestion, that there is a need to discuss and find solutions for the availability of student property. In addition, the role of the Republic Council which determines the conditions and accepts the establishment is highlighted in the establishment and abolition of universities and universities. The university's curricula plans are now adopted by the university, not by the government, which gives total autonomy. It is left to colleges to establish the passing of individual professions for master's and doctoral studies, allowing employees at scientific institutes to be mentors and commission members in the design of master's and doctoral studies. Students' rights are protected and their responsibilities are determined, with the role of the student parliament being specified. The usual calls of teachers and associates have been retained, the role of teaching and scientific council in the selection of teachers and associates has been restored, and the possibility for students of graduates to participate in the exercise has been opened. When we talk about governance authorities and professional authorities, the new law on the university has kept the structure of the 1992 Law, with the number of members delegated by the Government being reduced in college and university councils, while the participation of employees and students has been increased. In the case of transitional and final provisions in the law, it is particularly noteworthy that the possibility of launching a disciplinary procedure is open because of abuse of position or overrule of powers under the 1998 Law. Now, as far as the story goes, the law contains elements of retroactiveness, rematchism, it makes sense to me, because if we go from the fact that we have a sick organ, that we have a tumor, it makes sense for me to take that tumor out and cut it out, because it's inevitable, that this country and its youth could find their place in the world. Thank you, and I think a law like this, with such settings in the transitional period, should be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-11-0.u20107	The word has a folk MP Milorad Mircic, followed by a National MP, Dr Milan Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-11-0.u20108	What does the Proposer want to achieve with the bill? He wants me, under the auspices of the autism and autonomy of colleges and universities, to introduce something that most of us honestly thought was ancient history, something that is most ugly in the development of our society, which is self-government. Speaking of achieving a higher or higher degree of autonomy and universities and colleges, simply at a small door wants to see what was a harsh and realistic reality of some ancient times, that the ranks of employees will choose those who will be head of the university or university. So, gentlemen, we're going to go back one step at a time in a period where, for example, it's going to work without the intention of underestimating, the housekeeper will decide whether any of the scientific workers or co-workers in the university will go to specialization and training. So we're going to get into a situation where masters, who do their job in the maintenance of college and university facilities, decide whether or not someone has met the conditions of doctoring or mastering. It's what's inevitable if this law is passed. The story of autonomy being compromised - it has to be argued. Based on the fact that the current law is bad and that it threatened autonomy, those who worked at the university, simply, simply, neither stands nor can be interpreted. Professor Knezevic's bitterness and personal dissatisfaction does not have to be the reason for his dissatisfaction and bitterness in the past period to be transferred to legal provisions. Is the current law threatened by the autonomy of those who work in colleges, which refers to their scientific, teaching creation and work? It's not. Where is it under the existing law, which is a member, a minister who threatens, who prevents, who restricts all employees of the university from conducting their own classes, from participating in scientific works? There's nowhere in this law. You can do whatever you want by heart. Secondly, when you want to cover something, you go through the old tried-out methods, which is to tell the story that this law is not only good for teachers and scientific workers, but it's good for students. What do students get by this law? Compared to the existing and now applicable law - nothing new. They're getting something that's a scam at the beginning. It should be said that the student parliament is a fraud, it's a distraction of students, it's the return of some of your personal debt to those who were members of the Resistance. What a real real real role that student parliament plays, you don't know either. You're waiting for a new law to be passed, so he'll tell what his role is. What's that? If you were already thinking, Minister, to help students of Serbian origin, then you should have shown it to at least some member in this law, for example, who would refer to students from Republika Srpska or students of Serbian origin living in Macedonia, who live in Romania, who live in Hungary, who want to study and improve in our country; not to treat them as foreign students who have the same rights as domestic students, with costs, enormous costs, themselves. You have not shown your will, you have even gone so far as to lift the provision passed by the previous government during your transitional government, where students from Republika Srpska and neighbouring countries of Serbian nationality had privileges. And you've put that out of control. What are your transitional provisions? Legal coverage for your rematchism. The fact that you ministers, in a delirium that is characteristic of you, from this pay phone, said that you would make amends to everyone, Minister, this is a law that is in force, as you said, in transition by 2010, and by 2010, the government will change. By the end of this year, be sure, there must be a change of government, and you are still employed at the university, mind what you do to your colleagues, because the same, if not by a large measure, those same colleagues will pay you back.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-11-0.u20109	The word has a minister of education and sports, Prof. Dr. Gašo Knezevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-11-0.u20110	I didn't think the general debate on the University Law was a place where students from any region should be specifically mentioned. That's why I didn't even mention it. However, I would now like to remind this assembly that by decision of the Serbian government and our struggle, the Pristina University has entered the system of universities. You lost, we threw up. Please, those are facts. There are government decisions and don't ever forget that. The freedom of creation, which is respected not being abolished by the 1998 Law, is a very relative term. Freedom of creation actually represents freedom of opinion. Freedom of opinion cannot be abolished by law, that's correct. I agree with you, sir, freedom of mind has not been lifted and has just returned to you as a boomerang. Because the more you squeeze him, the more he jumps; you know that.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-11-0.u20111	I thank Mr. Secretary. He didn't insult you. You're not misread, you just gave him information. I'm assessing whether you have the right to a replica. You have no right to a replica. I can put it to a vote. Does the MP Milorad Mircic demand that the National Assembly declare whether he has the right to reply? So I'm putting it to the vote. For 51, against 68, the abstentions were not voted 50, out of 169 MPs. The National Assembly has decided that you do not have the right to reply. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: Can we get a ballot from the vote? ) The word has a folk MP, Dr Milan Radulovic, and after that, a folk MP named Živodarka Dacin.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-11-0.u20112	Dear People's MPs, Mr. Minister of Enlightenment today has brought us into a bit of an unusual situation. We are, in fact, adopting a new law from 1992; we are adopting it in 2002, with the hope that, as you say, we will enter history in this act. That's possible, but I hope that history will still turn a blind eye to this post-modernist understanding of time, where in cycles it returns the same. But joke aside. By this law, as I understand it, you wanted to achieve three goals. First, to exclude from use - from legal traffic, as it is said - the current 1998 law. Secondly, to show that the Serbian education system is positively oriented towards the spirit of the Bologna Process, it is open to this process and is willing to engage in it. Third, to try to stabilize the current state of the university, to prevent some negative phenomena and to prevent some positive trends as much as possible. As far as the first goal is concerned, you will, of course, succeed completely. The 1998 law is indeed the worst law on the university that has been passed in Serbia. From the 1905 law until 1998, the government did not directly interfere with the choice of teaching staff or the choice of university administration. In 1905. Belgrade University is defined as the most "self-adjustment for higher education and science processing". Even during the communist era, there was an illusion that people at the university were choosing their own administration. In fact, communists have been able to control these administrations through their party cells, but they have not introduced the law to directly elect and appoint the government and that the government has a direct influence on the choice of teaching staff. It's really a step, and it turns out, I'd say a fall out of our tradition and a distance from some modern tendencies that are now current. Okay, nothing else about the 1998 law I wouldn't like to say except what you said. The law did not abolish the freedom of research, but only led the administration under a finance, or founder, so under the government. It's never been done with the university, and it doesn't have to be done and it's obviously not going to work anymore. Now you have returned this law to the administrative authorities of the university to choose people at the university instead of appointed by the government. This allowed you in a certain degree to restore partially impaired autonomy. Whether your solutions are good or not, we won't discuss it now. I think this solution that you have now offered, with the Council and with the Council, will be amended in the following law. I guess if we go in the direction of the Bologna Process, the entire university administration will just have to belong to the people of the university. The Bologna Convention recommends, among other things, that the government and the university are obliged to provide full freedom of work and research at the university to protect university independence from any political authority, which is very important, and from any economic force. So the government's duty is nothing more than to protect the university and its freedom, but that doesn't mean it doesn't have the right to fund it. He has not only the right, but also the duty to finance him, but that ends the country's involvement and influence at the university. By the way, have you considered calling the Senate instead of the Greater Professional Body of the University? Here's why. He's got the same function, but the higher colleges and the higher universities have the same names. In Republika Srpska's law, the university is bigger, and the university has a Senate. Montenegro has a Senate. Many states have a Senate. We had the University Senate until 1945. It is a tradition that says that the autonomy of the university is performed, performed from the autonomy of the university, and therefore the professional body of the university is even a name in a certain way separate and superior to the professional body of the university. It'll be time to think about it when you're writing a new law. As for this second and most important task you've set for yourself: to show that we're positively oriented towards the Bologna Process, there you seem to have had a little less success. You have, however, had a good result in one of your amendments. As unusual as it may seem that the government is submitting amendments to its law at the very time of adoption, the best member of the Oatsacon is Article 25, with the amendment you have submitted. Namely, in Article 25. The government remembered that the Bologna Process assumes two courses of study, undergraduate and graduate and that it indicatively determines how long these cycles last. We now have a newspaper that from the day of entry into force of this law, the basic study will be able to last from 6 to 12 semesters. This is very important because this involves us and thus we are compatible with European reform processes. After all, so is the law of Republika Srpska. All countries in the environment have a basic study that can last from three to six years. Of course, it will hire colleges to adapt programs. It's not the same program for four-year and three-year studies. They will have to adapt the program - bearing in mind those two courses of study, basic and postgraduate, or undergraduate and graduate - so that a mildly embodied programme will be given to students who will want to go to the labour market after three, four, five years, and those who will want to go to this second cycle after four, five years, i.e. to master's or doctoral studies. In one place, you mentioned that knowledge no longer has to be evaluated only by numbers, but also by points, but it remained undiluted. I guess colleges will understand what chance they're offering, and they're going to start applying the score system, because it's kind of better than the numerical rating system. Where you failed, it's to offer students a wide range of freedom in the course elections. You don't predict college classes around here. The basic programme contains general items, professional items and university. The university is obliged to offer its students coherent knowledge, but the university is also obliged to respect the freedom of students to choose certain subjects. It seems to me that the university is also obliged to provide students in each semester of two one-month classes, because one-semester objects are very good to satisfy students' curiosity, to encourage them to do some research, to enable them to expand the cultural horizon in general. Of course, you didn't stop colleges from introducing this, but you didn't give them enough incentive. This law will be partially, more or less satisfied with the professors. The least reason to be satisfied is because their freedom -- and the university is obliged to respect their freedom, just as the state is obliged to respect the freedom of the university -- is not provided by this law. I repeat, they are not allowed to choose anymore, they are not allowed to acquire titles and knowledge that are completely equivalent to the titles and knowledge of other universities. You did not forbid, on the contrary, you predicted that visiting professors could come to colleges, because the mobility of teachers and the mobility of students is also something that is extremely important for the university. Where professors and students station themselves in one place, so they don't communicate creatively within one university and one university, let alone with other universities, there's red tape, there's entropy of curiosity, in one word, at the oscillation of the university. In the end, I have to say what, in my opinion, is the worst in your law. The worst part is not that you gave the students freedom, but those two members where you restricted their freedom. Article 4 which prohibits students from organising themselves politically and religiously is without a doubt a restriction on student freedoms. Who has the right to ban students from having political consciousness. Which law can forbid students to go out on the street tomorrow or today, as they did yesterday, with political demands. You can't put that kind of restriction on free people. They cannot be limited to freedom of religious declaration and religious action, for this is part of intellectual freedom. Article 41 provides that a student who fails to fulfil certain pre-examination obligations cannot listen to lectures in the next semester. It's also, I think, totally anachronous. Anachrono is because university lectures have always been free. Exercises, consultations - it can be closed for a particular round of students. A student who enrolled at Belgrade University has the right to attend lectures at any of the university's universities. You have a member who makes it impossible for him to listen to classes from the summer semester at home because he hasn't passed any winter exams. It's something that's completely anachronous. Now that I've used this word anachronously, let me say this: the 1998 law is anachron, and the 1992 law is obsolete. And this innovative law, which we are adopting today, is an outdated law. This law was outdated in 1992 when it was passed, because the Bologna Process had already begun in 1989. This law will not solve some of the major problems of the university, which was discussed by fellow Lemajic. This law, for example, will not prevent unfair competition at university. We at the university today -- we have to be open -- we have unfair competition, we have lobbies, we almost say clans, we have stakeholders who protect access to the cathedrals. We don't have the mobility of teachers and teachers, we don't have what's called healthy competition, and healthy competition is the foundation on which the university rests. As soon as there's no healthy competition, as soon as we even have the appearance of nepotism -- you know that a young man reproduces from old university personnel -- the university becomes closed instead of an open institution. So many practical problems this law will not be able to solve. It probably wasn't his purpose. However, what this law could do with some amendments -- such as your good amendment to Article 25 -- is give a slightly stronger signal that we are open to the Bologna Process, because the Bologna Process is the best that Europe has taken in the organisation of higher education in the last 10 years. The Bologna process, which spreads various mystifications, is an attempt by Europe to return to its humanistic tradition. The Bologna process defines the university and university as an independent institution that creates, transfers and assesses culture. The university is declared a guardian of the European humanist tradition, as an institution that is obliged to harmonize all European national traditions, respecting differences and seeking a common denominator. In one word, the Bologna Process is an attempt for Europe to oppose the American variant of the university, the American concept of the global world, the unification of cultures. It is therefore very important that we accept this process, that we have a positive relationship with it. Mr. Minister, I'm really sorry to have to tell you this, and I have to apologize for the exact word. I'm sorry you got into the 1998 and 1992 laws. Both of these laws are swamps. You're halfway there. It was supposed to be extended, it didn't have to go back to 1992 to bypass the swamp. The shorter your journey, the faster you'd get there. When you were going back, you should have gone much further, in 1930, because that law was much closer to the spirit of the Bologna Declaration than the one you offered us today.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-11-0.u20113	The word is made by Minister Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-11-0.u20114	First, I want to thank Professor Radulovic sincerely. I think this discussion of his was a real contribution to a constructive discussion of the legislative activity that exists here and is taking place here. So that I don't give compliments any further, I'll just say it, you know what I'm talking about. Of course, there is a conflict between the Bologna process and a clean, cruel privatisation of the American University and I can't wait to get into that Bologna process. But there is one problem, which you know, of course, and I'm saying this more because of the Assembly than because of you, which is building institutions. Living on a desert island since 1945, we have lost compatible institutions compatible with Europe. We must rebuild them in order to open them, fortunately we have until 2010, a merger with Bologna. As far as students and non-sponsoring are concerned, they are open by law; that is, it is not prohibited, and it is the university to enter the authoreform and to offer it through programmes; therefore, we did not think we had to or could legally intervene to do so. In the life of each university and university, you can regulate certain segments by law, but some must be authoritative. I think it's an issue of electoral subjects and, of course, total curricular reform. Once again, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-11-0.u20115	The word is a folk letter from Živodarka Dacin, and after it is the Messenger of the people, James Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-11-0.u20116	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, dear fellow MPs, has been very patient and we have long waited for at least one reform law of all the reforms that DOS has made in pre-election promises. I primarily mean health care, but unfortunately the health reform laws have not yet been in place, but the announcement is that soon we will have patience; and the second thing we were most interested in is just the ones in the field of education, and that's today on the agenda -- the university law. However, after many announced reforms, the story echoes that it is only one transitional law, one transitional law to a real reform law, which you yourself confirm, because this way DOS reaffirms some 1992 law, which the Socialists have adopted in their time with their majority. That's okay, because it shows that practically socialists were able to build a reform and transition law from university to university in 1992. The truth is, it's just a fundamental core, but if there were any changes, I'd say it's a practical establishment of a student parliament. Very fair on your part, because indeed these youth and those students in the last 10 years have been actors of political life in Serbia. They really deserve to be trusted, just don't forget that youth is in itself rebellious, that young people have a restless spirit and that this student parliament may one day seek greater rights, which may be given to them in this sense. It simply bothered me, reading and analysing this law, which is nowhere to be mentioned in the cathedral, although you, Mr. Minister, said it in your opening letter, because the cathedral is the primary cell of every university. All of this, of course, is no minus, and I think this would be, for this transitional period, a perfectly correct law, that we do not come to these famous transitional provisions of Articles 141, 142 and 143, where it is practically a matter of action (retroactive) backwards, which again gives, rightly, the illusion that this has just been done to deal with political insinuators, while at a very high-university level. I would say that these members are actually going to work harder to re-examine all calls from teachers who were promoted from 1998 to October 5th, so let's say by April 11th, and I think that's something that can be very debateable. It is obvious that this law will allow, above all, to review the validity of all the titles of teachers who were members of the Socialist Party of Serbia, were then in power, truth to the coalition, and others perhaps today. To the truth, we know that you and I, all of us here, are always very few university professors were members of the Socialist Party of Serbia, and that the Socialists in their time still didn't see that party membership so much, even though it's wanted here, it's all normal, politics and political speech and I can understand it, something like that. In addition, it suggests that some very current names at the university today, when DOS was in power, were very high-ranking and when the Socialist Party of Serbia was in power. But I can put all this aside. Of course, I don't think anyone who's got more calling in the follow-up during that period will be taken away. For me, every law that exists must be respected from beginning to end. But the question arises: what about the exams of students who passed, say, those very teachers -- we don't know who that will be, whether it will be one, maybe there won't be any -- how valid these exams will be; not to say that some of them have graduated from those professors, which will now be debateable. It is something that, in my opinion, could be a serious problem, because if the retroactive application of this law was done, it could happen to us that someone who graduated in 1998 or 1999, who already works very hard in his profession, was subsequently informed that he had not graduated, that he should return to the student amphitheater and listen to other professors, other subjects, and of course re-legated. On the other hand, whenever I try to speak, no matter what I'm an opposition MP, I put myself in another situation. Imagine tomorrow you or some group of you being an opposition and being in power of someone else and starting to question some calls that may have been given in the period from October 5th to this time, while DOS coalition is in power. Let's just say that the question is, how is it that someone who is in high positions today in the DOS coalition, deals with very serious state issues and problems, runs this society and suddenly succeeds in the aftermath of 10, 15, 20 and perhaps several years of study, to pass a lot of exams, even graduates. I don't think political revenge on the one hand or on the other is absolutely leading to anything. You just said what you're doing today to your political opponents who have been in power can come back as a boomerang, which would really be an ugly picture. Personally, I wish that politics could absolutely be kicked out of the university, out of education, out of health care, out of culture, to be present just as long as it takes to run the country's economy and to enable those who are pillars of every civilized society to normally exist. Practically here today, instead of adopting a good transitional law, we are re-entering a policy that I don't think can do anyone any good in this way. I would conclude that, I really believe that we all have here, as MPs, the obligation and the responsibility to actually adopt a very correct law. Personally, I wish the real reform law had been passed today, so it wouldn't just be transitional. I would like us to provide absolutely the best conditions for studying our youth, our future, and, of course, to do everything possible to improve the material status of all university employees. This gives the impression that, among other things, any goodwill falls into the water, if the sole objective of this law is the possibility of eliminating political inexperience. So I'd really like to ask you all to think about it one more time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-11-0.u20117	The word is made by Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-11-0.u20118	I'm sorry, I promise I won't answer after every speaker, but I have some things I need to clear up. Ma'am, I don't think he's a lawyer, I don't know, as far as retroactiveness is concerned as a legal concept, there's only one thing to tell you -- true retroactivity occurs if the decision taken in a constitutional sense, let's say on 11 April, there's a fact from the beginning, then we lawyers say edge tunc (since then); and if there's a fact of edge nunc (from now on), it means only pro future, from the moment it's brought to the future, then it loses the meaning of formal retroactivity. The proposal of Article 141 remains precisely this proposal that the facts are only for the future. So, I don't think any titles will be taken away, but that's another story, that's my relationship to the university. If a call is corrected, it will be corrected from the moment of the scientific and teaching council's decision on the future. Therefore, no exam is questionable. I think we'll just clear this up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-11-0.u20119	The word is from the MP James Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-11-0.u20120	Dearly respected Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, honourable ministers, dear guests, I hope that all of us have closely followed the discussions on the adoption of legislation in the previous assembly of this Parliament and I hope to share the opinion of most of you MPs, as well as the entire scientific and professional public, and the general public in Serbia, that the two worst laws have been passed in the last session of this Parliament, the Law on Information and the Law on University. If we agree that these are the two worst laws, then I guess we agree that we should change them. After all, time is the best witness to the quality of certain legal solutions and I hope that, by the consequences he left behind, the University Act doesn't deserve any more attention than we've said and you agree that we have to do something on that plan. Some ask the question -- which is why it didn't wait a little while, so that a whole new university law can be passed. I don't think we have the right to wait another school year with many bad solutions and unresolved issues in the provisions of the previous University Law, especially with solutions relating to the choice of teachers and associates. I also hope that most of us agree that one of the best laws on the university so far was the 1992 law, and therefore it is no wonder that this law was taken on the basis of the definition of this proposed universality law. So I'm a little surprised that the MPs who took part in this law are criticizing, as far as I understand, this whole law. I can understand that they are criticising only those provisions of the proposed law that some newspapers give in relation to the 1992 law, but since they are criticising the whole law, it means that something is wrong with their thinking when voting for the 1992 law or with the present thinking. It is certainly clear to us whether we want to be an integral part of the European Union, that we must agree our legislation with the legislation of the European Union, including the law on the university. In addition, it is time to bring the legislation into line with the Bologna Declaration, which is currently envisioning a single education system in Europe, predicts that all countries, both members of the European Union and those who are willing to be members of the Union, agree their legislation. In that sense, since it was also important here on the Ministry of Science, it is also preparing a law amending the Law on Scientific and Research Action, which will be synchronised with the future law on the University and I hope that this area will be fully covered in an adequate manner. If we want to highlight some of the good points of this law, I'll try to look at just a few things in the shortest possible way. I think it's very important that autonomy is returned to the colleges, both in terms of organisation and management. On the one hand, the plans and programmes in colleges are adopted only by the scientific and teaching councils of these universities, with the consent of the university, and on the other hand the dean and rectors choose the advice of the university. Since the composition of these councils is such that the greatest influence is given by teachers and university associates themselves, I think it speaks enough about the autonomy of these colleges. I think it's very important that colleges themselves bring their plans and programmes, as well as their changes. Because because of the simplicity of the procedure, I hope that colleges will decide much more often that, depending on what the market is looking for, they are changing their plans and programmes and thus practically schooling those people that the market is looking for, and that means automatically and easier employment, or easier coming to the job of those who finish those colleges. Then, I think it's important that you enable the engagement of so-called. visiting professors, i.e. people from the Institute and prominent experts from the economy, who hopefully will make a major contribution to modernising teaching, especially in that practical part of it, because they will have the opportunity to be mentors and commission members when making master's thesis and doctoral dissertations. It is also very important to return to the role of the electoral council, which will play the most important role in the process of selecting its staff, so teachers and associates. Here I must thank the Minister for accepting one of my amendments, and he refers to the fact that the choice of associates ends in the colleges themselves. In fact, the proposed law foresees, as before, that the proposal of a scientific and teaching council goes to university consent. Since it is unequivocal that the condition to be met by an associate, in order to be elected to a co-operational calling, is only that it is a master and that it makes sense to work in the follow-up, I think that these are criteria that can be unequivocally established in the colleges themselves and that it does not need to go further in the procedure. I also consider it a significant increase in the autonomy of the colleges themselves. There's been a lot of talk here about the Republic Development Council. He's existed before, but somehow he didn't have a clear role to play. I believe that in this proposed law it has a fully clear role; it is particularly important in defining and monitoring the fulfilment of the conditions. the criteria for opening and closing colleges, the founder of which is the Government. So, his job is to license and assess the university's work. It is also important that he deals with the registration policy and the policy of funding the university. Given its composition, since these are people from the university itself, so the rectors, they will best be able to help solve these problems. It is very important that the student parliament be introduced. I will remind those who have voiced doubts here about the existence of this student parliament, doubting its action, that it is clearly regulated by Article 64 of this bill, which says, in the first position: "For the protection of the rights and interests of students, a student parliament is organised at university and university." But, among other things, this student parliament will be important in terms of participation in the work of the authorities, raising the quality of the teaching process, will be a very important control factor in the work and behaviour of teachers and associates and will give their opinion in the election of appropriate teaching and co-operational titles. He will also be able to submit objections to the organisation and way of teaching. In this sense, we are slowly adapting to the Bologna Declaration, which puts students at the centre of the study. I also find it significant that universities and colleges have been left with the possibility of getting their own funds and having them at their disposal. It is clear to all of us that such a small country, with such a large number of universities, must do something and that colleges themselves will have to find ways to further earn income, if they want their material position, which is not otherwise envied as in other segments, to improve. Furthermore, I consider the amendment of the Student Union important. As you could see from the proposed law, it is intended to be only 10% student representatives compared to the number of university and institute representatives, while the state would be represented by 25%. However, by adopting amendments to the Student Union of Serbia, this relationship has been changed so that they will have their representatives as a percentage of the state, so 25. It is also important that certain amendments were adopted by the Serbian University Community. It is in fact the quality of this ministry, which has accepted these amendments, and they mainly refer to the choice of teachers and co-workers in German universities, the number of dean's mandates and rectors, the number of exam deadlines, etc. The future law on the university must provide for a reduction in the length of the studies. We'll all agree that our studies take too long. It is, as regards the acquisition of basic knowledge, in basic studies perhaps well, because comparing our staff with the staff of some other countries, especially in the West, it is an undivided opinion that we give stronger engineers; but in any case, we spend enough on basic studies, so that as far as masters and doctors are concerned that they are lagging behind in Western countries; in that sense, we should reduce the length of duration and the number of courses that are being studied in universities. One of the weaknesses of this law may be that he did not foresee the way students were elected in the governing bodies. In fact, the proposed law provides for students to propose a scientific and educational higher university and university; however, we have a promise from the minister that soon they will prepare and give the procedure a law on student organisation; I think it is much more democratic for students to determine their own representatives in the governance bodies than for someone else to choose. There are many things to change about the optimal structure of higher education institutions, management systems and funding principles, as well as in the licensing and accreditation procedures of private institutions. But since the minister has promised to start a completely new law on the university, which will be in line with the Bologna Declaration, and that the most important strategy for bringing the new law into line was established in a document called "Description of the strategic direction of educational reform", I believe that the proposed law on the university, in this form, can also be adopted as a member of the DOS, as well as my Democratic Party, will vote for it. Finally, as far as autonomy is concerned, I would remind you -- as independent of the state as you are, you will have as much autonomy as you are. There is no autonomy without material independence, and as to whether the law is reformal or not - in any case, in order to reform education we have to do it comprehensively, means by vertical, not partial, and I hope this will be one of the tasks in the preparation of future law on university. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-11-0.u20121	National MP Branislav Ivkovic asked for a replica. The basis for the replica is the presentation of MP Jacob Stamenkovic? Your exposure was misread, please. - How do you always do that to him? )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-11-0.u20122	They're always interesting tossing fellow MPs, especially colleagues. Dear colleague, I know you're the Dean of the Faculty of Technology in Leskovac, and really, let's get one thing straight. No one here is against the law because of the part that belongs to Danil - Daci Markovic, the famous minister of education, whom the children remembered by that wing: "Daco care, don't give the money"; now thanks to Mr. Minister, he became Transition Dacha, because Mr. Minister has declared his law a transition. So we absolutely support that part of the university law that most of the Socialists voted in this assembly in 1992, and who, unfortunately, were also those sitting in these benches. However, we do not support transitional and final provisions, with retroactiveness that allows dealings with people who think politically differently. That's the point. We in Serbia are getting to know different forms of retroactivity these days. It is in the federal parliament that a law on amnesty is passed which retroactively frees all terrorists who have killed Serbs in southern Serbia since 1 January 1999. On the other hand, we have a retroactivity here that allows the heads of the cathedral and the dean to initiate any re-examination procedures, which is a milder form. So I welcome the change in the approach of the Government of the Republic of Serbia -- from a drastic, simple non-civilisation provision of Article 141 in the proposal, amendments have passed, and we will discuss this, to a better version, but retroactivity exists. So, to be clear, there's a replica. We absolutely support that legal part that is the main part of 130 and some members of Mr. Daca Markovic's law, and we do not support transitional and final provisions, because they can be used (not necessarily and deeply believe that the university is a civilized environment where people, however, and how to measure whether to enter certain things) for those needs and purposes that are not suitable to the university. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-11-0.u20123	The People's Messenger Alexander Vukic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people, Miroslav Christodulo.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-11-0.u20124	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for more than a year and a half, we've been hearing stories about reforms in Serbia progressing, how reform laws are being passed, how laws that will change our present, but also our future, incomparably better than all those who, in times of dictatorial regimes, have come to mind. We have experts and geniuses in power, the ones who sucked all the minds of this world. Their opponents, of course, are stupid and ignorant, those who don't know and can't stand up to them. We received a proposal from the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for a law on the University, which for no reason can be called a reformist, which almost no newspaper brings in, except for bringing in a newspaper in an explanation that, I don't know whether a minister wrote or wrote one of the so-called. professional associates, abounds in charges against political inexperiences, who in turn assesses previous legal acts without any evidence, sometimes very stupid, and above all untrue. In an explanation you can hear, or read, a pardon, even such things as the 1998 University Law abolished the autonomy of the university. For what? Because it was appropriate for some to say, that they were making national heroes out of themselves, that they were getting much higher salaries than they were at Belgrade University and at universities in Serbia, multiple salaries, in the so-called Alternative Educational Network, because at that time it was "in" to leave and stay away from the supposed dictatorial regime; say - behold, we are dissidents, so give us three and four thousand dollars' wages, and not a dinar; although the state was trying to ensure at that time how important it was to receive its teaching staff, they were disturbed by autonomy because the government founded and abolished the university and because it was setting up agreement, and did not set up rectors and decans. And what does the newly proposed law of the Government of the Republic of Serbia say? Article 12 states: "The university, i.e. the university, can start working and perform activities if it meets human, spatial and technical conditions. "Of course, these conditions are prescribed by the Ministry of Education and Sports of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the Government, or the State. It is said below that the Ministry of Education and Sports determines the fulfilment of conditions for the start of work and for the performance of the university. When it comes to the abolition of the university, and the students of the abolished university, all decisions are made - who? The government of the Republic of Serbia. What's changed? There's one thing that's changed is that today, it's being managed like it used to be since C90. in the year so far; and that was why it was a much better law since 1998 than it was in 1992, although both proposed by socialist ministers, it was better because it prevented the titos from managing the Belgrade University in sectarian principle, above all, but also other universities in Serbia. How did that happen? Many college graduates and many who stayed on it know that. A closed circle of people, people highly anti-Serbian orientations, was also at the Faculty of Law, mostly stayed and survived, because in the meantime they had counter-legally dealt with those who think differently; so Gašo Knezevic allowed himself to say in "Blica" since 5 January 2001: "If someone is behind the eviction of Radical leader Vojislav Seselj from the Faculty of Law, I stand." That's what one minister says, and he's talking about the lack of interference of the executive government. That's the state we're in, that's the state we're in, and that's our university autonomy. Since you've trampled it all and returned it to universities, without any choice, with nothing, with automatic rifles, with those who've managed Tito's time (e, the Tits, just like that), that's how you want to continue to operate the university as you've done so far. You say the student parliament is being introduced. The student parliament is being introduced, and neither is it known how it is formed, nor how it works. The minister says today -- that's where they're going to express their different views through different organisations or groups, and so on. Is it through this student union or the student union, I don't know what it's called, what is the name of that organization that's advertised in the paper, it says - support reforms, and who's paying for it? Who's paying for those ads? Who's organizing it? Is that what students pay for in their pocket or someone else? How does that work? It's things that are insecure. And, let me tell you something, my son is going to go to school in two years, and what you're predicting -- that students are giving a grade, that they're saying, that they're giving their position and judgment on the professor's previous educational work, you know that, Mr. Knezevic, it's crazy. You know, and crazy and stupid. Now my kid's gonna grade his teacher, don't you think? He came there to be evaluated by a teacher and teacher, to learn something. Students go to colleges to learn, not to be harassed by titoists how to become anti-Serbians, how to fight Serbs in Vukovar, Serbs in Sarajevo, as did Knezevic, as many other professors at the Faculty of Law in Belgrade. Since we are running out of time, and from the SRS parliamentary group still has to speak to Srboljub Zivanovic, I will just read something about the untruths that were brought here, and about Tomislav Nikolic, and about the SRS. You see, it's a letter from the chairman of the Board of Directors of the Flag, DD; Kragujevac: "I authorise you to pay all the compensation that I have as a member of the Management Board for the same work in the Fund for the Support of Children of Flag Workers whose parents died as victims of NATO aggression on our country. This authority also applies to all the rights so far, because I do not want to receive any compensation for membership in the Management Board." Tomislav Nikolic signed, and here is the proof, faxed on January 13, 2000. So much so that you know how much you're lying, making up, and all those who want to hear the truth, and from central Serbia, I call on them to attend tomorrow's rally of Serbian radicals in the square of Kosovo heroes in Krusevec, starting at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-11-0.u20125	The Messenger of the people is Miroslav Christodullo, and after him is the messenger of the people, Miomir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-11-0.u20126	Dear colleagues and colleagues, when we wrote that pre-election program that we shared with citizens in our election campaign, we promised to adopt a new law on the university on the first day of Parliament's work. Since that promise, a year and a half have passed and, behold, after so much time, the university law, which is not a spectacular solution or a change from 1992, has some innovations that are better. This is, of course, because we had various other priorities in the legislative work in this Parliament, and the working groups that worked on making a new law on the university could not always agree on whether more governance rights would be rectorates or colleges and that the degree of original and carried out autonomy would have different universities and universities. Of course, this is a temporary solution that will allow future reforms; now it is necessary to adopt anything, correct the amendments as much as possible, and then immediately start working on a new law on higher education. The proposed law is not reformative, and it is not realistic to pass reform law quickly. As there will be new, different priorities in the work of the legislative body of the Republic of Serbia again, this law should be corrected by amendments. Because it is temporary does not mean it will be short-lived; temporarily, it can be a temporary year, two or three days, perhaps in this term Members of Parliament will not even be proposed some reform law. This law has 150 members and is very detailed, it should have half the members. So, (qualitative) a new law that would reform higher education in this country should have half the members and regulate only basic things - how colleges are founded, what standards should meet and what sanctions are if they do not meet those standard qualities. So, I believe, on behalf of the Social Democrats in this assembly, that this law is bad, but it is better, of course, than the 1998 Law and therefore should vote for it. Where's the real bad guy? This law allegedly restores the autonomy of the university and really returns from what it was in 1998; it is doubtless. Again, many things are decided and elected by the Government of the Republic of Serbia: for example, in Article 8 - teaching in other languages; in Article 10, the work of the university abroad; in Article 32, the number of students enrolled. We also believe that more must be solved through the statutes of the university; for example, obligations and the right to attend classes, which is defined here in Article 41. We think it is unnecessary to define it completely and to leave it to the colleges themselves; in some universities (such as Electrical) some forms of teaching must be mandatory, because students cannot take it; in some other colleges (such as Mathematical) you do not have to go to classes, you can sit at home and practice these tasks and of course you will pass the exam. So we think more must be solved through college statutes. Only basic rights should be guaranteed in the law, and for these rights must be guaranteed by the State. For example, these would be the university's basic obligations to students who are now defined by Article 27; so that's not defined enough, because there's only given the most basic things, but they're not elaborated at all. So the state does not guarantee the content of the statutes of the university. Next, the less deans should decide. Article 36 discusses how a person who has more education can enroll in studies to acquire higher education. Of course, there are certain conditions prescribed by the university statutes, etc., but the dean decides on the recognition of the exams. So the dean decides and if he doesn't have enough control at the university through the statutes he can discreetly use in an incorrect way. It's a possible source of corruption. Then, Article 91, which speaks of the rights and obligations of the field of employment as if it had been prescribed by the Law in 1998. It's like he was written by an inconsistencies MP here himself. The worst part of this bill is that there is no reform of the process of teaching and testing, but there is still a system of conditions, some conditional exams that you need to pass, and there is no so-called. credits or, as it was called for this speaker, points. There is no modern way for students to take exams, so they have a number of points or loans that they have to meet over the year; for example, two mandatory exams, and all the rest of them choose from one range of exams from that area or they can reach these loans at various universities. It's also very important and it's also according to the Bologna Declaration -- mobility is very important, so you can start studying at one college, and end up on another, of course if you fill out a number of these loans. So credit was left here as a college thing. We have one example in Novi Sad -- there's one cathedral that introduced it, but it's just one department at one university. We believe that credit must be guaranteed by law, that the state should guarantee that credit will be performed at universities in Serbia. Of course, this is a better law than the 1992 law. Here's what's better: Finally, after 10 years of battle, the student parliament is being introduced. That student representation is finally introduced through the law. Of course, we believe that this article in 64 should only write how this student parliament is elected, as the basic things that it can and must satisfy as an organ. So this should be prescribed: as it is chosen, that these elections are unique, direct, regular, that all students have the right to run; that this student parliament, as a representative of students at the university and at the university, has its own statute that solves all other details. That article is also written, and with the amendment the government has accepted, I think it has now become satisfactory. There are basic responsibilities, therefore, that chooses a student -proctor and student - prodeced, that he can ask various demands and questions on the council, etc. It's a good thing it's been introduced and it's written more precisely now. I think they will be pleased with the student organisations that will fight for the students' favor in that student parliament. It is not good that this student parliament will have nothing to do. Because the assets of the students have so far been the assets of the Union of Students, different forms, which are relics, although many have been reformed in many universities and in many cities. After all, they were a relic of the old one-party system and were then legitimate representatives of students who had received and acquired certain assets. Now that we have a new bill to define in a new way which is the legitimate body of students and how it is chosen, then somehow this property that has been acquired over many years should belong to these legitimate representatives of students. I know what the Ministry is going to say, since we've talked a lot about it, it's going to say it's a good topic to talk about, but it's not the time yet, and it's going to be a special law to regulate it. That, of course, is a good argument and that's true. We think they are legitimate representatives of students who are supposed to have the assets of students in this law now defined. So, now that this law is establishing a new legitimacy, then the property needs to be re-allocated, and that's right in this law, not waiting. The Ministry will come up with a good bill, but here, in this legislative body, it will never arrive in this term on the agenda, because something else will always be a priority. So there's an amendment that adds a new member of 148a, and that's the last amendment, and we're going to discuss it somewhere on Tuesday. The university, of course, was created because of students, and this is more respected in the bill than before, but the amendments we have submitted were not accepted, which concern students' opinions in the re-election of teachers. It says here that someone can give an opinion, and we're asking that an opinion be taken. Of course, it doesn't necessarily have to be considered, but you have to ask. Because whoever will always want to give you an opinion; anything that is not explicitly forbidden is allowed in the Republic of Serbia, it is a member of the Constitution. I don't think the possibility alone is enough. As far as the question of the level of tuition is concerned, we have an amendment to the representatives of the students, whose tuition will be much higher than it has been since the next school year than it has been, they will ask for their money, e.g. What's the quality of teaching for that money that gives if it needs to be bigger. According to our amendment, it is not mandatory for students to take their opinion into account, but an opinion must be given, so however it is decided afterwards. In order to motivate the establishment of a student parliament in those colleges where it is not formed, we do not believe that university councils and higher universities should be established, i.e. University and university advice, until student parliaments are established. This is our amendment to Article 148, which defines this transitional solution, we ask that this member be deleted. So not all bodies will be established within a certain period, while the Ministry or already a set of some student organisations define election rules for student parliaments and will motivate student organisations. The number of student representatives in the councils was increased by the amendment we submitted with Prof. Expensive Stojanovic. These are also student organisations, such as the Union of Students and the Student Union, supported and it was adopted; that's good, because it was a tenth, and now it's predicted a quarter. The European standard is a third. So, the European standard is that the same number of MPs have both a founder and an employee at the university and representatives of students. Of course, it may now be in this transitional solution unreal and would face resistance in the university and university environments themselves. That's why this compromise was adopted - so a quarter for students, a quarter for the government and half for the professors. What must remain in this bill for him to be satisfactory? It must remain, for example, in Article 4 that a religious and party organisation is forbidden in college. That can't be thrown out. Then, to have five guaranteed test deadlines, as it is written in this bill. There is some amendment that will further define this, but it is good to stay, because there are five guaranteed test deadlines in Article 39. The transitional member of 140 should remain, although it will be an amendment to delete it. Of course, and members from 141 to 143 who have had a lot of words here, so I'm not going to talk about it. Despite the shortcomings, the Social Democrats believe that this law should be supported, as it is better than the 1998 Law and still needs to be corrected by amendments, in particular, members dealing with student issues. Like I said, it's now a modern understanding in the world, a university, it exists because of students and not because of sholastics, it exists because of someone who's studying and paying for it. There should be no illusion that the right to reform will at all be started in the next year, two, three, because there are always other priorities. That's what you don't have to believe when the government's representatives, no matter what we support them, say -- here we are, now by the end of the year, we're going to pass some new law on student organisation, or we're going to start some reforms. Unfortunately, the scale of reforms in this society is so great that these issues are always less priority than these huge issues that we are constantly solving here -- and some Montenegro, the Kosovo issue, and tax reform, privatisation and all sorts of other things. I don't think, unfortunately, the real reform here is going to happen much longer. But what do we do, and this is better than what we had in 1998.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-11-0.u20127	The word is made by the People's MP Alexander Vukic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-11-0.u20128	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament,.... When's the rally? ) The rally is tomorrow in Kruševec in the square of Kosovo heroes, starting at 15.00 hours, as you are interested. Since I see that especially those students were businessmen, they know everything about how it happened, I have one proposal, Mrs. Micic, something I told you about yesterday, and I tried to point it out to you, so I do now. It's not what you thought, although there's no quorum, everything with those in the opposition shouldn't provide you with a quorum. He's gone, but that's not why I'm going out. I would like to tell you that the electronic voting system continues to mark the presence of Cedomir Jovanovic, head of the DOS parliamentary group. I speak for the public, he's not here, there's Chad's card, and then one of the organizations in the Assembly will tell us that it's the most common person in this room, how it works most, and it's not him, it's the card present. Mrs. Micic, my proposal is next, since you have shown humanity, according to the media in action, with the money of the SRS MPs, in accordance with Article 118. The Rules of Procedure, which states that MPs are obliged to carry identification cards with them on their way out of the O.R., require that, in accordance with Article 117, you take measures and humanity at work, show little over the backs of DOS MPs, not just through the doors and the coat of arms of SRS MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-11-0.u20129	Mr. Vukic, I can't apply Article 117 because there's been no abuse, we haven't had any vote. The work continues on Monday, April 15th. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, the session is attended by 170 MPs. Please insert identification cards into your MPs to determine the quorum. I figure we have a quorum and we can keep working. According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is issued by the deputy president of the SPS parliamentary group, MP Zarko Obradovic.
