ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-28-0.u19424	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Pavlovic, since the minister is not here again... (louds -- there is) welcome, Mr. Minister, that claim has been made that you were not here yesterday about making a decision. In the final word that I promised yesterday, and to recap this law today, just to briefly repeat the two findings that I have made about putting this law on the agenda in the weather, i.e. in a minute to 12, given that today - tomorrow is the deadline for the municipalities to adopt their decisions on local budgets; and another thing, about the criteria for the allocation of funds, both basic and those additional criteria that have been used here - there is really no need, if I have specified concrete data and concrete facts, that any MP from its midst is angry, because I have taken numerical sizes which will indeed define and confirm what I have said as a finding. Finally, I wanted to say one more thing, which is that one newspaper was introduced by this law (it is also written in the explanation that it is a newspaper) which gives municipalities additional opportunities to increase their revenues based on sales tax by participating in the achieved surplus income at the rates of participation. It is well criticised at this time, as well as at committee meetings, so if amendments by the SPS and the Democratic Party, as well as by other parties, are accepted to distribute surplus revenues above the 50-50 level, it is indeed the right news. I will specify why municipalities are not and will not be stimulated if the existing rates of participation in the surplus of income are maintained. Yesterday I suggested and spoke about the municipality of Apatin, which has a negative amount of funds, i.e. a smaller amount of funds compared to the previous year. Indeed, the rate in this municipality has been reduced from 5.9 to 1.9%. I would also say another serious thing, in municipalities that are more developed and where the economy is still working, on the basis of sales tax and on the basis of the income tax, a certain amount of funds is realised and if that amount of income tax is achieved to a greater extent, the paromet tax will be in smaller amounts. On this occasion, I would like to confirm this finding and support our amendment with another fact - based on sales tax in some of the municipalities, such as. Back of Palanka, Vienna, Beocin, there have been some problems in the functioning of local self-government. To remind - there are 30 MPs in Beocin, and of 35, there are 30 MPs; mostly, the main problem is not the one that is highlighted at the level of local municipal taxis, but is the main problem in terms of spending the funds that are set at 5% on the amount of Beocinski cements sold. The basic, negative incentive for all municipalities in Serbia is that in this way part of the funds achieved under the law belongs to municipalities, that part of the funds is not allocated and does not allow local authorities to determine the amounts of funds defined in accordance with legal regulations, or the Company Privatisation Act. Immediately after the adoption of this law, it seems to me, Mr. Minister, that some things have surfaced, i.e. after the first quarter, many municipalities will be faced with their surplus income due to the reduction in rates and redistribution, which will certainly lead to the indifference of many municipalities, i.e. the blocking of funds and their transfer to a consolidated account of the Republic of Serbia's vault. I don't think there's any need to re-cite examples of the participation of most small-foot municipalities, but I'd say Jagodina, not as a cause of replication, but because there's really no data in this review of the Jagodina municipality, and it seems to me that it was eliminated by mistake in this explanation. I'm not referring to this as a cause for replica, as I didn't say yesterday, but it's really one mistake, so we can't compare this data. Also, I really think there are some examples here yesterday that point to basic and additional criteria. As far as basic criteria are concerned, it is very important that the number of students and the number of departments, not just the number of school facilities, be present in the distribution of these funds. At least in the Valjev region there are school facilities with 30 students and school facilities with 1,200 students. The number is taken as a clean number. In that case it would be better to take either the area of school facilities or another additional criterion - like this, the same amount of funding by number of schools has a school with 300, with 30 and with 1,000 students, and also a school that works in two or possibly three shifts. There's a school that only works in one, a day, a day's work. It's the same in kindergarten. Not to be angry with fellow MPs, I will set an example for Kragujevci and the King. They have the same number, 27 units, 129,000 per unit, and 27 units, i.e. the facility in Kragujevac, have 5,700 children, and 2,700 children in the Kingdom, which means double the number of children, and units are units. The same is true in Valjevo, where eight units included the same number of children as in other municipalities with 2,700 or 2,800 children. So these criteria should continue to be developed in accordance with the Law on Local Self-Government, as well as in terms of defined budgets for these municipalities. At the very end, I would take the opportunity to suggest to the Government that the problem of the Mačvanski County farmer is seriously incurring, and now also in the Kolubar County - that regulation that was adopted yesterday on the prolonging of the payment obligation for pension and disability insurance is not really what farmers, or farmers, and that this problem will not be resolved in this way. I can still say that the exemption of farmers from municipal taxes was really minimal, given that some 14,000 taxpayers in the municipality of Valjevo paid only 253,000 dinars last year based on the personal income tax of agricultural activity, so this is a serious problem. I have to say, if there's a chance of a blockade of the Ibar Highway, I really need to ask Mr. Stanulov for help, not as a cause for replication, but to train me to come to the Assembly meeting by canoe Colubar. Finally, I propose that the Minister accept, on behalf of the Government, the amendment submitted by the Socialist and other parties, which refers to the allocation of 50% to 50% of the surplus income achieved on the basis of sales tax.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-28-0.u19425	Do any of the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want to talk about this agenda point? No, I don't. ) I conclude the principle of search and put to the vote the draft law on the volume of funds and the participation of municipalities and cities in the income tax and sales tax in 2002, in principle. For 132 against 55, the abstentions were not voted 10, a total of 197 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. Since the reports of the Legislative Committee are being drawn up and have not yet been delivered to you, I suggest that, in accordance with Article 136(5) of the Rules of Procedure, The Rules of Procedure shall be decided to conduct the debate in particular without a report of the Legislative Committee, which will be delivered to us shortly. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 109 against 28, the abstention one, did not vote 62, a total of 200 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided to consider the draft law in particular without the opinion of the Legislative Committee on the amendments submitted. The amendments to Articles 2 and 3 of the same text were submitted by MPs Borislav Novakovic and Branislav Pomorijski and MP Aleksandar Vatovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted these amendments. Do any of the applicants of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. ) Deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group, MP Tomislav Nikolic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-28-0.u19426	Without intending to engage in the purpose of submitting amendments by the MPs who make up the parliamentary majority and who are devoting their government and claiming that the Government is not doing its job well and that they know better than the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I use this amendment to point out to the Members of the People's Parliaments who advocate their environments, to their municipalities, to their cities, not to think about others in Serbia, that even though the MPs from Novi Sad, Belgrade, and, in part, from Pancheva (because Pancheva has many accidents, so I separate him from this group) but the MPs from Belgrade and Novi Sad should not ask to increase their incomes by any means of the government's incomes, which is, I think, the worst since Serbia exists, but estimated. What's this about? Why look for additional revenues for Novi Sad and Belgrade when one tax, a huge tax that fills the state's register, can only help those two local self-governments and only those two local self-governments can make revenues. It's an oil sales tax. A huge tax only belongs to Belgrade and Novi Sad, because the government has forced importers to process crude oil in Panchev by its regulations, which is a service tax, and then the NIS in Novi Sad and Belgrade exclusively sells oil derivatives and every buyer that buys oil derivatives, and is bought a lot in the Republic of Serbia, pays sales tax exclusively in Belgrade or Novi Sad. Now compare it with the agricultural tax, with the income tax, with the various taxes that you generously donated last year to local self-government, to God as original incomes, and thus made it possible for local self-governments to earn their own income and own it. That is why I propose, as someone who has been in the Assembly for so long, that it may seem to bother you, to give up all these amendments, you who represent DOS in the National Assembly; it is better for individual MPs to remain remembered as being funny because they wrote amendments to their government, than for the government to remain remembered as funny, because the amendments were written by its MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-28-0.u19427	The Minister of Finance, Mr Bozidar Djelic, called for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-28-0.u19428	With regard to sales tax and excise duties, including corporate tax, and especially for those who have been in this assembly for a long time, they can now compare the situation when oil smuggling, when the money was filled with private pockets of various mafias and compared to today's situation, when imports of crude oil are imported neatly, processed and then sold freely to everyone. Today, this money that counts billions of dinars goes for pensions, goes for all the noble things that pay off this budget, not in the private pockets of the mafia, who then bribe people and try to push this system. (Tomislav Nikolic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-28-0.u19429	You don't have the right to a replica, you're not mentioned. Does anyone else want a word from the president, or a representative of the parliamentary groups? No, I don't. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 32, against 103 abstentions, he did not vote 61, a total of 196 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted these amendments. The amendments related to each other to Articles 2 and 3 were submitted by MP Milorad Stanulov. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted these amendments. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go. The word has the People's MP Milorad Stanulov, the applicant for the amendment to Articles 2 and 3. It's a bill of law.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-28-0.u19430	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to Articles 2 and 3. Laws, or amendments in front of DOS MPs from Zrenjanin. With this proposal for a law on the volume of funds and the participation of municipalities and cities in profit and sales tax in 2002, the increased volume of funds for the Zrenjanin municipality is now 77,097,356 dinars, which represents an increase of 44.15% compared to the previous year, while the average increase in funds in the Republic of Serbia's budget is 68%. When identifying funds by specific municipalities and cities, basic criteria, such as population, number of departments, number of children covered by direct childcare, number of children's protection units and others, as well as additional criteria based on which certain municipalities are placed in a very different position compared to the previous year. Given the level of budgetary spending achieved in December 2001 and the planned volume for 2002, in line with the planned growth of budget spending in the Republic of Serbia's budget, it is necessary that the projected volume of funds for the Zrenjanin municipality be 106,884,000 dinars. This volume of consumption can be achieved by participating in the sales tax of 9.1%) instead of 3.5%, as provided for in the draft law. According to the bill, and at the rate of participation in sales tax and income tax, Zrenjanin municipality is classified as a group of municipalities that have a 50% higher social product per capita. With these proposed changes, Zrenjanin municipalities would be placed in a group of municipalities with approximately the same number of inhabitants, a network of primary and secondary schools, a number of departments, a network of pre-school institutions and a number of institutions in the fields of culture and physical culture. In addition to this, the proposed consumption would allow the completion of the initial capital investments, which is a new cemetery, a new market, the construction of a transit route. I note that Zrenjanin municipality is second to the surface in the Republic of Serbia and therefore I propose that the Serbian Parliament adopt these proposed amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-28-0.u19431	I thank the People's MP. Is anyone else answering for word on this amendment? Yeah. ) Here you are, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group, MP Tomislav Nikolic..
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-28-0.u19432	If I belonged to this government of the Republic of Serbia, I wouldn't dare speak of the mafia, the functioning of the mafia, and the influence of the mafia on our lives, I would cover my ears and be silent in the bench of the National Assembly, if I wasn't able to fight this evil, and if I had to work, to work with those who against this evil, not only would they not fight, but they are working with it. Mr. Minister, you haven't been to Serbia in the last five years, then you've made some other countries happy that you can't go to anymore. (President: Go back to the topic, Mr. Nikolic. ) But on the basis of Article 2. (Well, warn Mr. Minister when he comes out here and when he's banging)...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-28-0.u19433	Mr. Nikolic, I give you a notice under article 101.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-28-0.u19434	Let me just remind you, Mr. Minister, in the last five years there has been no oil smuggling in the Republic of Serbia. The exclusive smuggling in which excise payments were avoided was smuggled through free, so-called free and independent cities, which as donations received a heating ointment, were freed from paying certain taxis to the state, which could better feed the poor, and sell to citizens services with all tax burdens, even charged for heating, even though they were free of charge. Another coincidence, quite random or possibly intentional, is that the company that most went through belonged to your party, it's called "Peconi" and, behold, it was registered in Surcin.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-28-0.u19435	Does anyone else sign up for these amendments? No, I don't. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 31, against 97, the abstentioned were not voted 65, a total of 193 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted these amendments. The amendments to Articles 2 and 3 together were submitted by MPs Zoran Nikolic, Dusan Cvetkovic and Ljubomir Mucic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted these amendments. Does a representative of the applicants of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Dusan Cvetkovic, representative of the applicants for amendments to Articles 2 and 3.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-28-0.u19436	Dear Presidency, esteemed fellow Members of Parliament, Mr Minister, on behalf of the SPS and its parliamentary group, we have submitted an amendment aimed at increasing the projected funds in the Kovin municipality, primarily due to increased heating costs in primary and secondary schools, which has so far been resolved from donations, as well as the need for significant investment investments in the maintenance of these schools. When it comes to Osecina, the proposed amendment has tried to provide additional funding from tax to solve the accumulated problems also in educational and health institutions, as well as in municipal infrastructure. When it comes to Medvedja, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2 in view of the small and dissociated municipality of Medvedja, of only 524 kilometers, with about 14,000 inhabitants, in order to try to at least improve the situation in this municipality on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group. This border municipality with Kosovo and Metohija, which has 31 primary schools with 85 departments, one high school and four kindergartens, to mention that, even though it has a special treatment for the Serbian Government's programme, which applies primarily to the construction of infrastructure in these areas, is unfairly reflected by this Article 2 and 3. The 20.5 million dinar limit and the participation of the sales tax of 83.4% did not take into account only one example, the parameters for normal and large municipalities, as well as for Mr. Minister, are certainly not understood, which is that there are only 1,200 students in 31 elementary schools in this mountainous and mountainous area and that there are only two elementary schools per village. The criteria set out in this are for schools with a total of 1,200 students, and here are 31 schools with a total of 1,200 students. In Medvedja, respected ministers and fellow MPs, the only tax on earnings is from the work of the municipal administration, because it starts with the "Lece" Mines, through the "Nitex" fabricator's carpet, that two other factories, no other factories, do not work, so there is no way that any dinar can be inserted from that side; and even if by any chance the factories work, the headquarters of all factories are outside the Medvedje municipality; they are except the "Lece" Mine all in Nis and Belgrade. Therefore, neither the dollar will be able to enter the budget from those funds. These are the basic reasons why, looking at the total value of the republican budget, as a parliamentary group, we advocate that the limit for the bear be raised by some for the budget of the ridiculous three million dinars, i.e. From 834 to 95%. So I ask you, dear colleagues, to bear in mind that this amendment provides these three million dinars. This increase will significantly help this tormented and distressed people of Medvedje, and what is sought for Medvedija certainly can't disrupt relations in those 8.6 billion, how much this part of the Republic's budget is worth. This will help keep the few more people in Medvedja, allow those mini-schools with two students to be warmed up, to enroll a few more children in kindergarten. Mr. Minister, round only the last digits in all these items, so we'll get those three million dinars to sort of help the Bear municipality. It's a total of 2,860,000 dinars. I think it's really a sum that we shouldn't argue about, and the Bear Community would be of great importance. Fellow MPs, so once again, please, it's only 2,860,000 that can be very helpful to this municipality, to keep these children warm at school, to get another child into kindergarten. I urge you to press the green button and help Bear.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-28-0.u19437	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-28-0.u19438	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, during the debate on the law on the volume of funds and the participation of municipalities and cities in the income tax and sales tax in principle, we had the opportunity to see how individual MPs from different political parties, from still ruling but not for long, DOS coalitions, lobby for their municipalities and their cities. We have made a clear position of the Serbian radicals that I will repeat today, as regards our principled stake in determining such quotas and amounts from municipality to municipality, from city to city. We as representatives of the people of Serbia, no matter what city we come from, were not guided by localpatriotism and a way to increase the item by just one municipality, and none of you from DOS yesterday knew how to tell whom to deny it in another municipality or another city in this way as the projector designed it. However, what is important to say when it comes to this amendment of MPs from the SPS? They wanted through the proposal to increase amounts for these three municipalities - Kovin, Medvedja and Osecina - to do well, which they explained through the necessity for infrastructure development, to improve conditions in primary and secondary schools. But in submitting this amendment, I believe that they are not, but that is why you DOS have ignored the fact that, like the other two municipalities in southern Serbia, unfortunately for you from DOS, as you did with Kosovo and Metohija, the Medvedja municipality has been written off. Unfortunately, it is also the Serbian people who live there, in the municipalities of Bujanovac, Presevo and Medvedja, because of this in an unembarkable situation. That this shows it is also quite anti-constitutional and against the procedure of one of your famous vice-presidents of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is to discuss elections for the municipalities of Bujanovac, Presevo and Medvedja. In doing so, you have not seen at all whether you have a legal basis for it and what it is that you, by such a political act, want to do one such act, and to the detriment of the Serb people in these three southern municipalities. It's pointless for either of you DOS to tell us that he has some kind of concern for both children and adults in these municipalities. I believe that even if you did not respect, as you do not respect, the Constitution and the laws of this country, you would not be so fluent in breaking legal norms and regulations, and in the municipality of Medvedja, which they now want in the municipal budget to increase the amount; for that you had no legal basis. What you did in that municipality, and what you normally do all over Serbia, is destroying the municipal property, as you have destroyed the offices where the SRS is based. (Glass from the O.R.: Theme. ) The topic is just that - as the DOS is available in municipalities and cities in which it is in power, by mere case and by the will of the citizens of 2000, which has changed drastically, large funds that citizens single out through taxation from their pockets. The fact that the Medvedja municipality is one of the few most underdeveloped municipalities in southern Serbia, and this appeal, like all appeals addressed to turn to your own people first and think of its fate, I am convinced, will not affect you. You're gonna go deaf about it. It was quite clear during yesterday's debate over this law and on similar issues that it was simply a conflict of interest, which is so expressed in still, but not for long, the ruling DOS, and that everyone is pulling aside. Someone gets out of control and asks for more, tries to make some kind of deal, to extract as much as possible for his municipality, for his city at the minister's, but all of it will be as boomerang to come back to you this year, soon, in the extraordinary elections at all levels, at which we will insist.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-28-0.u19439	Anybody else answer for a word? National MP Ljubomir Mucic, the mandated representative of the SPS parliamentary group for this item of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-28-0.u19440	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, together with MEPs from the SPS Group, I have submitted an amendment to certain adjustments in Article 2, which are subsequently reproduced and to Article 3, bearing in mind that the additional amount of funds should be made in a certain way and be alimentated, i.e. through the rate of sales tax, i.e. the participation of sales tax in total revenue achieved. I think that, in addition to party representations of programmes and definitions, the SPS MPs also represent the interests of those environments where they come from. It doesn't bother me at all with localpathic enthusiasm and commitment to those environments that have chosen us here, delegated us, and in which we will return after the end of this term to jointly analyse what we have done and on this basis analyse our successes, or failures in policy realization. Since I received written material from the Municipality of Osecina, I also proposed, as well as other MPs from the SPS, an amendment of Article 2, where I proposed at point B.92 - Osecina, that the amount of 11661.489 dinars be replaced by 14.455.675 dinars, given that there were indeed certain problems and illogicalities in this undeveloped municipality in Kolubar County. So I don't get the data here how many people there are and how big the area is. I would only say that the material possibilities have changed significantly in relation to the data from 2000, when the amounts of gross social product have been determined, even in this municipality, given that what they had from two factories, i.e. two enterprises, as well as the Earth Cooperative "Podgorka agrar" in the past year, no longer exists and no longer works in this year. In addition to the measures introduced by the Government through temporary measures and new leadership, in fact, this factory that was the basis for development and Podgorica and Osijek does not work at all. With regard to the criteria that have defined that this amount of two million is increasing to the Municipality of Osecina, I would only say that there are many new buildings built in this municipality and I think that the policy of our Socialists, and I propose this policy to this government, that these facilities, however, should be maintained in some way through additional material costs and investment maintenance costs, further in what they were at the beginning and how they were handed over. What I was saying in the previous presentation is just to illustrate as two municipalities that happen to be on the same side and begin with the letter "O", the municipality of Opovo and the municipality of Osecina. In the municipality of Opovo there are 156 children in four units; in the municipality of Osijek 246 children in one unit; therefore, the municipality of Osječina has 129,0 based on children in institutions, and 217,000 dinars have municipalities of Opovo. On the other hand, according to the number of children, the municipality of Opovo has 665,000 and the municipality of Osredina is 1,040,000 dinars. According to the number of primary school departments, as well as the number of schools in the municipality of Osječina 59 departments has been deployed to 14 schools, and in the municipality of Opovo 50 departments in four schools. Now you can see the difference between the number of school facilities and the number of departments. So I'm still standing on the public's side that certain specificities of the environment in these legal projects should continue to work and develop. I suggest you support this amendment to the SPS parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-28-0.u19441	Thank you. Does anyone else sign up for these amendments? No, I don't. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 37, against 114, a abstentioned one, was not voted 43, a total of 195 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted these amendments. The amendments to Articles 2 and 3 together were submitted by MPs Petar Cvetkovic, Jakov Stamenkovic and Miodrag Stamenkovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted these amendments. Does a representative of the applicants of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Miodrag Stamenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-28-0.u19442	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, has been reduced from 18.7 to 13.3%. We'll be the happiest when that percentage is 2% or 3%, but based on objective indicators of fiscal capacity. In this case, in the assessment of this year, we disagree with the ministry's assessment, which was given in the explanation of the amendment's rejection, where it is said: "The municipality of Leskovac, according to the Ministry of Finance and Economy, will, at the rate of 13.3%, achieve the planned annual amount of funding for 2002 and provided for in Article 2. The bill of law." What are the criteria based on which we feel that we are not well-sighted in this year? This is primarily the degree of development, which is seen if I give you only one piece of information, which is that the level of industrial production in Leskovac in 2000 compared to 1989 was only 21.7%, which is 4.7 times less. It is two and a half times worse than the republican average in 11 years, which speaks of the level of industrial production and the purchasing power of the population. It was employed in 1989 by 36,000, and in 2000 only 22,500, most of which were apparently employed. They're all part of the gray economy, so it's unreal, even if we adopt that amendment to Article 4, which will keep some of the extra funds to the municipality, because we won't be able to achieve that surplus because it's a gray economy that we're supposed to put into the budget. It's actually a gray sociale. There are people who literally survive because they don't have any profit in companies. Another piece of information is that in Serbia's most dissociative woodworking municipality, with 144 settlements, we have 120 school facilities that have all been destroyed, that even last year we had a case where a whole department collapsed into the basement. We have a school that teaches in church, which on the one hand isn't bad, but the church doesn't have to cover the state. Another big argument, and I would like to ask Mr. Minister in particular to pay attention, the Ministry of Finance and Economics last year remained in debt to the municipality of Leskovac 13 million, and this is because they did not repay us the funds of paid bills for children's allowance, and on behalf of paid property taxes and cadastrian incomes. That 13 million is only half of the funds we're looking for right now with this amendment. So this isn't a list of good wishes, it's no bidding. We're just looking to look at each other a little objectively. Leskovac is a proud town, which was the first to develop in Serbia 120 years ago. 70 years ago in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia. Unfortunately, after five decades of red terror is at the bottom of the scale of development. We're just looking for some air to get off the ground. Since I know what the mood is for these amendments, I'm still speaking to the Ministry of State, and if nothing else, give us back at least the 13 million you owe us last year.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-28-0.u19443	Thank you. Is anyone else applying for this amendment? Yeah. ) Here you are, MP Milorad Mircic, authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group. They've got a full list of authorizeds.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-28-0.u19444	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, this amendment, like the others, show that the debate continues in that tone and in the way it took place yesterday. We're listening to the story, and the story comes down briefly and clearly to - DOS about DOS. All this that some MPs from various Serbia's environments, which within the DOS parliamentary group, are clearly saying that we, the Serbian radicals, were right when both the ministry and the minister representing the government here proposed to change the methodology of the distribution of funds to local self-government. To change the methodology, because this methodology is just telling and confirming what we, radicals, are saying from this pay phone, that this is the social policy that the Ministry takes for granted. Wouldn't it be a better methodology if municipalities were left with revenues from sales taxes, from profits, and then the state to prescribe how many municipalities it takes to give to the state for solidarity. That would be a lot simpler. That would make a lot less of a problem rule. However, here it is confirmed, too, that what is true is what certain DOS members, who are currently on high-ranking boards, have set out the principle and methodology by which each municipality truly belongs as much as they say it deserves. This is the method used most in the market. This is a drinking method. Why drinkers - because you disobeyed, gentlemen, when the Law on Local Self-Government was passed, where we Serbian radicals clearly spoke of what should be contained in that law. It should contain all the provisions, including these provisions -- as much as the municipality belongs to in the name of funding budget needs. No, you were deaf, because the government used a long-sighted method, which is to plant cowardly eggs, to argue with MPs from different backgrounds, and the government said and clearly promised what to do in the future and what to realistically expect. It is realistic to expect to pass legislation on the city of Belgrade, not the law on cities and the city of Belgrade, but only the law on the city of Belgrade. And then we had a chance yesterday to listen to a man who is in charge of the city of Belgrade, where he defends such a proposal, which challenges most MPs. I say most, because many are not allowed to report for different reasons and I am not going into the essence of their non-discipline; someone from party discipline, and someone for some other reason. But the law on the city of Belgrade will clearly define everything, including the revenues of the city of Belgrade. What are the problems, what is the obstacle of such a law being passed for other cities, and that all of these provisions on a completely different methodology, on a completely different basis, are incorporated into the Law on Local Self-Government; and that is the law that will apply, and not like this, year after year; simply, the minister holds a bag, so whoever likes it gives it; or, what is clear, and no one will say from this pay phone, who has more MPs to blackmail the Democratic Party for the congregation's majority, it will receive additional funds, and whoever doesn't have the right number of MPs, it won't even get the funds.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-28-0.u19445	Does anyone else sign up for these amendments? There is a word from MP Ljubomir Mucic, the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-28-0.u19446	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, since the SPS MP also advocates additional funding for the municipalities of Leskovac and Medvedja, for which amendments have been submitted, we, as the SPS parliamentary group, will support the amendment, but we do not agree with that explanation that one of the rapporteurs on this amendment presented his contradictory explanation here for this, once Serbian Manchester. The data he presented on the growth of industrial production in the past year, compared to 1989 (only failed to provide data since 5 October) and given that DOS is organising power in Leskovac, I think it has made it clear who and why this situation in this city has led to it. For this reason we will support the push for further development of this municipality, we will support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-28-0.u19447	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I am putting this amendment to the vote. For 37, against 103 abstentions, there were no 47 votes, a total of 187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted these amendments. Related amendments to Art. 2nd and 3rd, the People's Messenger Ispanovich Istvan. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted these amendments. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I am putting this amendment to the vote. For 12, against 121, two abstentions, 55, a total of 190 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted these amendments. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic, Milos Lukic, Petar Petrovic and Adam Urosevic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does a representative of the applicants of the amendment want a word? There's a word from MP Dragan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-28-0.u19448	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Serbian Unity Party is asking for the percentage to rise in several cities, and that -- in Kragujevac instead of 31.9%, to stand a percentage of 40. It is known that Kragujevac is a valley of famine, that there are currently 16,000 workers in Kragujevac without a job. By the end of the year, there may be another 20,000, that a large number of Serbs from Kosmeta live in Kragujevac and that local self-government needs a higher percentage, so that it can also help these workers who have lost their jobs and Serbs from the municipality. In point 6. - Arangel, percent 6.6 is replaced by a percentage of 16.6. There are also a large number of Serbs from Cosmet in Arangelovac, and we believe that local self-government must provide a higher percentage, so that it can meet them. Point 10 provides for 27.3% of Batocina, which should be replaced by a percentage of 37.3. The batocina has been flooded, the Batocina economy isn't working, sport is also in a very bad situation. And as for culture, I have to tell you that in Batocina there is a KUD "Zoran Ilic", which won first and second place in European championships. Since 2001, the KUD has no longer existed, and more than 100 young people have practiced in this society. Perhaps the legislator of the law is a little peasant when the KUD appears in the folk costume, which is why it is not taken care of by culture, and we consider that culture is a Serbian tradition and we have to help culture in the cities where it is developed, and in this city culture has been developed. Now more cultures, Malten, don't exist in Batocina. The Batocina also had a flood, which caused great damage to this municipality. In the Great Plan, there is a large percentage of Serbs from Cosmeta, who have no place to live, no longer receive help for persons from 18 to 65 years of age. We have proposed some amendments here in the Assembly, that those faces, or those families that have more than three children, and they don't work anywhere, have one average salary. The Minister didn't accept our amendment. In point 46 of the Despotovac municipality, 31.6% is foreseen, and we suggest that this be replaced by a percentage of 41.6. In Despotovec, the economy doesn't work. You could have suggested 40% here, even though 41%, as we suggested, is a small percentage if the economy doesn't work. All that matters is in Despotovac, a large number of citizens in this municipality live abroad, but there are also those who stayed in this municipality, so that maybe this higher percentage could help them with what is necessary and to which there is a obligation of local self-pour. In point 64, 8.5% for Jagodina, and we ask that Jagodina has 23.5%, because Jagodina has had a flood, 2,500 houses are flooded, they've had major damage. More than 1,000 hectares of land are flooded in the Jagodin municipality, farmers are not compensated, so we believe that this higher percentage may be able to help these people, who are in a difficult economic situation, through local self-government. Also, in Jagodina there is a cable factory that does not work, so there is no way to fill the budget, and 6,000 workers were employed at that factory, while at present it may be working 3,500 workers, so it's a very difficult situation. In point 86, 12.5% is predicted for Lapovo and we suggest 22.5% because we believe that this small percentage is also expected, that 22.5% is a satisfactory percentage because the Lap's has also hit the flood and has been severely damaged. It's a small municipality where the maltene economy doesn't work at all. Point 87. The Lebanese municipality is projected 61.5% and we're looking for 70.5%. In Leban, the economy is not working, it is a small municipality, and this municipality is only being taken into account in the election campaign and when emergency local elections should be discussed. These extraordinary local elections were and DOS has some narrow majority. The people of Lebanon expected that if the government changed, their lives would be better and they would be able to live from their work and nothing. (President: five minutes and 30 seconds, MP. Here, I'm done. In point 89, we suggest 20.3% for Leskovac instead of 13.3%. In point 115 - Parachin Municipality 4.8% we suggest that it be replaced by 19.8%. Why? Because cement was sold in Paracino, and cement was bought by a buyer from a country where the percentage of sales taxes is 5% and with us in Serbia 20. So 15% has been damaged by the government of the Republic of Serbia's budget, and that's the figure for which cement was sold at the calculated rate of five years. (President: six minutes and 30 seconds, MP. ( ) Let me just mention a few more cities. Razanj Municipality is predicted 65.1% and we suggest 75.1%. The Raca municipality is projected a percentage of 34.9 and we suggest 44.9. In Svilajnac Municipality, a percentage of 11.2 is foreseen and we propose 25.2. In that community, ever since Beja left, nothing's happened, everything's stopped, gentlemen. At the municipality of Trstenik... (President: Seven minutes, MP, we have a deadline to discuss the amendments for five minutes. ) I end up, here, I would ask Minister Djelic, because he would never accept any amendment by the Party of Serbian Unity, to accept this amendment, because if he does not accept what has been happening lately, that peasants go to the streets, that Serbs from Cosmeta also go to the streets. And then we have made amendments to certain proposals, but if our amendments are accepted now, you will not have such problems in Serbia, so please at least today accept these amendments, because these are the cities in Serbia that are in a very difficult situation, and if this percentage increases to local self-government, it will enable citizens who are in a difficult situation to help. I thank you, and I apologize for overstepping my time.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-28-0.u19449	Are any of the other authorised participants in the amendment debate coming forward? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 30, against 99, the abstentions, were not voted 58, a total of 187 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Milosavljevic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-28-0.u19450	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, unlike the previous amendments, who represent one set or a list of good wishes (and if these amendments were accepted, some fifteen first, this would mean that some should be taken to give others), this amendment that I propose today is absolutely conceptual in nature, in addition to being absolutely but absolutely transparent in the course of decentralisation of the Republic government, because with this proposal to share the excess of the participation of municipalities and cities in relation to 50 to 50 with the Republic, 50% would remain a city or municipality, and 50% would be given to the Republic, where the sharing of this surplus of funds would work on automation. So, directly, the PDO would transfer 50% of the total income paid, based on this resulting income by municipalities, to a consolidated account of the National Bank's vault, 50% to a jury account of the local self-government budget. So, in addition to these so far unseen, at least not in our country, reforms, in this area by the Republic government, local self-government would thus get and what a commitment to and how it takes care of how it will dispose of money. So far we could complain, the Republic government held all the funds in its hands, so we were begging, calling phones, godmothers and begging, and it was in one way or another transferred over the past 12 years, while our predecessors were the republican government, "on a spoon," as we once spoke. By accepting this amendment, it will finally avoid the shouting, begging and begging of the Republic government to share in the local self-government of a dinar, but, like anywhere in the normal world, it will be a redistribution by automation, as we today adopt. There was a boastful behavior of our predecessors in local self-government, which may have led to a centralized republican government, and it had such a principle that a small amount of money was given to local powers. In this way it ends with a tamprax and how it transfers great responsibility to leaders in local self-government. After all, the same arrogant government, which has held the money of all the citizens of this country for some 12 years, has passed in the previous elections as it has passed. So the citizens and how well they punished their behavior. Therefore, do not be afraid that some local self-government will now spend all of this money on profits, on increasing the salaries of local officials, on public enterprises or already on what, I am sure that in most cases in municipalities and cities, where the Democratic opposition of Serbia is in power, and I believe in all cities and municipalities where the democratic opposition of Serbia is in power, this money and how to be used wisely to solve accumulated municipal problems, in the minority of all municipalities in Serbia. As far as Nisha is concerned, it's not some excessively large asset compared to the whole planned budget this year. It's estimated to be about fifty million dinars. In Nis, until the last dinar, this means, if my amendment is accepted, will finally be used to repair the 1999 damage. We all remember how NATO bombed. Well, if you don't know, Nis suffered the greatest damage of all the cities in Serbia. I'm only talking about individual housing. Over 3,000 individual housing facilities have been damaged more or less. In recent years, the Land Reconstruction Directorate, which existed until some time ago, has allocated very little funds to the city of Nis, which, I repeat, had the greatest damage and therefore the time has come to provide funds. This is the best way to provide funds to resuscitate the destroyed objects. So, as far as Nisha's concerned, every penny collected in this way will go to the recovery of damaged objects. I hope the government accepts the amendment and I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-28-0.u19451	The word has a minister, Mr Bozidar Djelic, and then a National MP, Milutin Salesovic, a representative of the Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, then Ljubomir Mucic, and a National MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-28-0.u19452	So, we have a proposal for an amendment, and I can say that after the consultations we had last night and this morning, I would suggest that you vote for this amendment because it's in the spirit of this law. But before I say why I think we should vote for this amendment, I would like to say why the initial text was different and why the government on the Committee originally proposed that it be rejected. Because if you look at the effects, and first of all to point out that this money and the objective of this third source of public finance is to show solidarity at the level of the entire Republic, there is money and the rates that need to be added to the budgets especially in those local self-governments and cities where fiscal potential is not strong enough to settle what is regulated by law and what citizens who live in that local self-government or city expect. Therefore, if you look at the proposed amendment, I would say that this same mold for everything, 50 to 50, to a lesser extent respects the differences that exist at the local level. If you look at the list of cities, there is no such thing as a unique principle, but mostly in those local self-governments and cities where fiscal potentials are weaker there are usually higher rates. Therefore, if you adopt this amendment, as I feel you would like to do in a matter of seconds, I just want to warn you and tell you that such arranged redistributions will favour local self-governments and cities that have stronger fiscal potential. In other words, the amendment will favour Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis and other cities, Panchevo, and will be less favourable to some local environments where the rates are above 50%, so that for what moves the framework, the rate will be not more than 50%, but 50%. I just want you to be familiar with that fact before the vote. However, to return now to the very spirit of this proposal. It is in spirit not to be taken from one level to another, but to have joint republican services and services of local self-government and cities fight against the gray economy, not because more money would be taken up, but to create a system where everyone on the same archeological system would pay taxes on one side, and when the base is expanded, it should lead to these conditions where we could reduce rates. So the fiscal burden is even lower in our country. I also think, as my colleague Milosavljevic said earlier, that it is important that this money is in no way a reason to pay at the local level, because we have a lot of indications that they are in some environments and how they have grown to the extent that they become even a problem, and above all for people who have raised so many salaries, because there are some very poor environments where local self-government is giving themselves high wages. I just want to say two things - firstly that you can expect the proposal from this government, in collaboration with local self-government, on amendments to the Law of Payments in the State Administration, because he can be improved on the one hand, but on the other hand, there will be more frequent and more severe control of budgetary inspection, to see if the salaries are paid under the Law, which should be appropriate and applied to all in the same arch. The other thing, it means that this is here first of all to fight the gray economy together, which means that immediately after this law is passed, and I will return to that in the final notes, we will go to a closer collaboration between local self-government and all the inspections that can help local self-government in that struggle. And, finally, I hope that you will all accept the idea that at the end of this year we will look at the effects of these new provisions, because this is a novelty and see if anything needs to be changed or preserved by this new provision. By the way, I conclude and simply invite you to vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-28-0.u19453	The People's MP Milutin Svedovic has the word, followed by the MP Ljubomir Mucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-28-0.u19454	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Chosen Ones, Mr. Minister, if it were luck, we wouldn't be discussing this member of the law today and there would be no member of Law II, and this Article 4 would not be there. We'd just like to talk about percentages that would be passed by the criteria that were proposed and so on. There wouldn't be any surpluses, they wouldn't share anything. The Democratic Party of Serbia will vote and support this amendment because the amendment of the Democratic Party of Serbia is the same, only the percentages are slightly different and the relationship is 60 to 40 in favour of local self-government, but in order to be an agreement and to be all right, the Democratic Party of Serbia will withdraw its amendment if this one is now adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-28-0.u19455	The People's Messenger Ljubomir Mucic has the word, and after him, the Messenger of the people Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-28-0.u19456	Mrs. Komic, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, indeed not a single law of six members, and each of the members of the law is extremely important and significant, which is also mentioned by this big debate that we had about the law in principle and also in committee sessions. Right at the beginning, I should say - and MPs of the Socialist Party Group of Serbia, Mr. Bora Stanimirovic and I have submitted the same amendment to the same member, where we have also proposed that the proportion in the distribution of revenues reached above the allowed level be 50% to 50%, i.e. that the budgets of municipalities where the surplus income remains 50% and 50% of the funds be added to the budget of the Republic of Serbia. That is why the Socialist Party of Serbia MPs in this assembly will support the amendment. Also, I would like to say that it is very important and important and Article 3 which determines the rates of participation and therefore I think that the member of the law is very important at this point. For what reason? By increasing the participation rate in relation to the amount of funds that has been allocated, a larger volume of funds will also be achieved, and the municipalities, or local self-governments in this case, will also have a larger share of the funds in relation to what they had. I think that this member and the amendment of this member will make a lot of difference in achieving the goal that we initially pointed out here, which is decentralisation of public revenues, i.e. budget revenues from the republican budget and the Republic government on local self-government. Finally, I would like to say that by adopting this amendment, the amendments submitted by the Socialist Party MPs, Mr Bora Stanimirovic and I, will be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-28-0.u19457	The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-28-0.u19458	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I did not expect such an outcry of tenderness among the MPs who belong to different political options, and I was preparing for a discussion on this amendment, not knowing what the views of individual parliamentary groups would be. The acceptance of this amendment shows that the government is in great confusion, because in the light of this amendment, it is cynical, I would say even humiliatingly, to mark local self-government as someone who can't achieve great successes at all and to secure huge revenues. Only the Government of the Republic of Serbia can do so, possibly local self-government, in the government's view up to 10 minutes ago, to provide only one small percentage above what the government said would do to local self-government, and from that small percentage, it will be subject to that percentage that the government has found to belong to the local self-government. Suddenly, the government generously declares that 50% to 50% will return, or not even return, to the system (and I am surprised that the minister has agreed to dismiss Article 5(4)'s position) but will directly invest in the budget of the local self-government 50% of the surplus achieved, not quarterlyally and not looking at the general balance, but as it is. It's two completely different concepts. I am for a concept that will be adopted by amendment, and the question is whether it should be 50-50, but the question is whether the minister does not just want to remind you in detail what you bring to large cities by accepting this amendment, and that's true. And smile happily, you from Nis, from Belgrade, from Kragujevac, that lobby in the Democratic Party is the strongest and he has now achieved something that I cannot say will be too profitable, the whole of Serbia will be bitter. You should have considered, Mr. Minister, that this amendment should be accepted with another correction, with the correction of these percentages and amounts already defined in local self-governments. If you had predicted that Belgrade with 7.5% of the tax on transport could be financed and that some local self-government needed 50%, it would have had to give an extra to the municipality that already needs 50%, rather than to the one you claim will achieve all the functions transferred to it by the Republic, for all the tasks that the Republic trusts. This way, whoever has more will have more, and whoever has little will have even less. It's not the wish of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, it's not. I warn you, some incomes that are huge belong only to some local self-government, only to some - and sometimes markets in all shops in Serbia were taught so that the tax was paid immediately in the place where the goods were sold; sometimes the sales tax was charged at every gas station; in any local self-government that there was a gas station, from the traffic of oil derivatives at that station had a percentage of local self-government on whose area the pump was located. You silenced the representatives of Serbia's largest cities in the agreements when you told them - here's this income, just shut up. The rest of you keep quiet, the rest of you still don't know how hard it's gonna be to fund maritime municipalities, how hard it's gonna be to fund municipalities in the Rasko district... (Milka Marinkovic, from the place: We know and agree with it. Aman Milka, when I beg you, let's go outside and talk for half an hour, if you had a nicer voice, I could take it. When Neda throws away, she puts her voice through school, throws it nicely, and you haven't yet. So, given that you do not have a serious debate, it is up to you to talk this way into the opa, as those who sponsor you would say, you do not need our votes to decide on the fate of this amendment, we will not interfere with who you favor, who you are breaking and the bill of law and by accepting the amendments. But let me just say to the MP who here said that one brutal government has been setting percentages for 12 years -- he may have used a worse term, I can't remember, that, the proud government, I'm not running away from those expressions at all -- two years you have the same authority here, two years the government has determined the percentages and this bill, the same proud government, this is already the second percentage of the participation of municipalities and cities in sales tax. This was a bit of a show-off last year, but you can't just say about that government that wasn't yours, because it used to be law, and for the government that's yours, it's not arrogant, although it's the same law that the government passed before it. For me, this government is a mob, and it's much worse.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-28-0.u19459	Mr. Nikolic, for the violation of Article 101, and on the basis of Article 103, I give you a second warning. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Right on line, MP Milan Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-28-0.u19460	I just want to say that Mr. Toma Nikolic didn't get me right. I did not say that the percentages were blasphemy and that the law was arrogant, but those who applied the law were arrogant and expending money.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-28-0.u19461	Since they're no longer registered for the word replica, are they? As a representative of the parliamentary group, MP Branislav Pomoriski.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-28-0.u19462	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Mr Minister, I think this is a small step towards decentralisation, but a big step for a man who is leading finance and a man who I think is sincerely trying to make in the given conditions in Serbia is trying to implement some reforms. This has never been easy in Serbia, it won't be easy for us either, but I went out and took my word because my amendment reads exactly as the amendment proposed by the government to adopt, and the fact is that it will vote on the amendment, because it was in order first. I'd like to say a few words that I don't think are correct and that are spoken on the basis of the application of this amendment. First, it is not true that small municipalities will be damaged. This can only be true if government estimates of the tax potential of certain municipalities and if government estimates of the percentages applied to such tax potentials are incorrect. That's what we can open up the debate, that's where I had a complaint and I gave them to comment on the law in principle. I think, like most municipalities and cities in Serbia, that this is where Belgrade went best, but since reforms are under way, the time will come to change too. We will open the discussion on all issues and I think it should be just like this, all of us together in Serbia when it comes to unique interests, that we are uniquely making certain solutions. Otherwise, when it comes to decentralisation and reform, I would like to present my experience -- our city of pick-up Dortmund is entering a budget deficit of 2,500 German marks per capita this year, and there are 600,000 residents -- I'm saying this primarily because I know that Mr. Minister will understand what I'm talking about -- but he's going to enter on the basis of an estimate of how much he's going to save from projected costs related to the cost of local self-government. This is the first step in which we respect the results of local self-government and accept that those who work better will have better effects than their work. So, on the condition that government estimates are correct, about tax potential and about the rates to be rejected by a certain framework, none of the municipalities and cities in Serbia will be damaged; everyone will have frameworks and all will have incomes designed by this law. It will be a privilege for one who, during his work, during the year for which he makes his budget, will make a transition from gray to legal economy. Whoever increases his tax potential, who brings new jobs to his city, who opens up new companies, forms new taxpayers, and should have some results from these activities. I think that in the future, the government needs to deal more with controlling what happens to local budgets, not determine percentages and frameworks. That's what the world and developed cities have for a long time, and that's probably what we're getting at. So if the city of Dortmund enters the deficit (2,500 marks times 600,000 inhabitants), it cannot enter it unless it is certified by the government. It's supposed to be the government's job. So, we give programs, we have a thing in our hands, and it's the government that's going to say whether we're serious or not; not as if the government knows better about our municipalities and cities than our municipal and city halls, who sit around each other for days, and the government takes a second and a half to discuss it. Therefore, I think we should commend first and foremost the Government and the finance minister who had heard of such a gesture, which, I repeat, is a small step in the process of decentralisation, but a big step as a guideline for the direction to go. I thank you, and this also means that I am giving up my amendment, which has the same text as the amendment that we are going to vote on.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-28-0.u19463	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 165, there are no, no abstentions, no 36 votes, of 201 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has unanimously accepted this amendment. The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milutin Salesovic, Slavoljub Matic and Dusan Golubovic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Finance Committee has accepted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? It's pulling the amendment. ) The representative has declared to withdraw this amendment. I find the amendment has been withdrawn. The amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Borislav Novakovic and Branislav Pomorijski and MP Aleksandar Vatovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. Do any of the applicants of the amendment want a word? I find that this amendment has been withdrawn. The 4th amendment, with a correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Bora Stanimirovic and Ljubomir Mucic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. Do you want a word? National MP Ljubomir Mucic withdraws the amendment. I find that the amendment to Article 4 has been withdrawn. The 5th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by the international MP Nebojsa Jovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-28-0.u19464	Dear Members of Parliament, on behalf of the SPS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 5. The proposal for a law on the volume of funds and the participation of municipalities and cities in the income tax and sales tax in 2002, which states that if revenue from Article 3 of this Act is not achieved, the amount referred to in Article 2, the municipalities, or the city, shall be provided with funding from the budget of the Republic in proportion to the amount of the achievement of the budget of the Republic. I have submitted an amendment to Article 5, which reads: "The government of the Republic of Serbia, on the proposal of the Minister of Finance and Economy Affairs, will provide a quarterly solution from the budget of the Republic of Municipality, the city of funds to the unrealized amount of income from Article 3 of this Law, the proportion of revenue achieved in the Republic's budget." The proposed solution would result in quarterly harmonisation and equalisation of the positions of all municipalities in line with the projected volume of budgetary resources; since municipalities and cities which, with a percentage of their participation in the income tax and in the sales tax of products and services for 2002, do not reach the volume of funds, i.e. a quarterly amount in line with dynamics, prescribed by the general balance of public income and public expenditure, should be added to the estimated amount. I do not dispute Article 7. The budget law, which provides for funds to be allocated to municipalities of 919,000,000 dinars. It says funds will be deployed if necessary. All I'm asking is that quarterly regulation be made for the harmonisation and equalisation of the position of all municipalities that do not reach the volume of funds by the percentage of participation in sales tax and profit tax. So I'm asking that it be regulated legally, that it be not an individual's will, or that it depends on which municipality someone is in power.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-28-0.u19465	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? MP Ljubomir Mucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-28-0.u19466	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is the last amendment to article 5 submitted by the SPS parliamentary group. I have already pointed out that every member of this law is very important and very interesting for all municipalities, i.e. local self-government in Serbia. As the previous member is determined that half of the surplus income remains in the municipalities where it is achieved, we have proposed to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, on a proposal from the Minister responsible for financial and economic affairs, a special solution shall provide quarterly funding from the budget of municipalities, the Republic (municipality, or the City) until the amount referred to in Article 2 or the amount set out in this law. I think - as the previous member is important and rewards those municipalities that generate surplus incomes that are more developed and have solid sources of income and on the basis of the income tax, and also the sales tax of products and services - that the Republic budget is also obliged to provide the amount of funds set out in this law and is guaranteed by municipalities, in accordance with the three-month report on the revenue achieved. I would like to say, as far as these funds are concerned, I think that this article will best illustrate solidarity with certain municipalities and cities in Serbia, which do not achieve enough from their sources of income, and also through the adoption of the previous amendment, funds will be provided for further development and improvement of the material position of all beneficiaries of municipal budgets. In the end, I suggest you vote in favour of the amendment to Article 5 of the Law. I would like to say that the arrogant behaviour of the municipal governments and the assembly in the allocation of funds will certainly be assessed, as Mr. Milan said about the previous amendment. I think that the SPS in 74 municipalities, of which several cities, in Serbia did not exercise local authority during the previous period. I would really suggest that the government urgently provides some criteria by which this part of the funds will be directed to the benefit of all citizens of the municipality and not to the salaries of municipal officials and others. I think that's really important right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-28-0.u19467	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 38, against 128, the abstentions were not voted 31, out of 197 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Since we have completed a review of the Bill's proposal in particular and a decision on amendments, does the representative of Finance and Economy Minister Bozidar Djelic want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-28-0.u19468	Mrs. Micic, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, before you vote, I hope positively, for this law, with the amendments adopted, I would just like to mention a few things. I think this law is extremely favourable to local self-government and cities. Although decentralisation may not have been implemented until the end, it is necessary to wait for a consistent implementation of the Law on Local Self-Government and some additional laws for it to be fully implemented. With this, someone said that behind the pay phone, it's one big step. In just two years, those revenues from local self-governments and cities where there are no limits have crossed some 70% growth, and I'd say now, although it'll be harder to calculate, we'll see at the end of the year, this second part about 10-15%. So we've come really financially to a huge degree of decentralisation. And not only that, if we talk about numbers, we see that the overall budget of local self-government is growing this year by 48.5% or 18 almost 19% realistically. This part we're talking about today grows to 8.6 and in the event that the combined fight against the gray economy succeeds, it may even grow to 10-11 billion dinars. This means that nominal growth will not be 70 but perhaps 80 or 90%, and real growth will be some not 35%, but perhaps even 40%. We'll see at the end of the year. As I have pointed out, especially with the changes in Article 4, it is of great importance that this money, of course, does not go to the self-preservation of local bureaucracy or self-reliance, but to be used for the right purposes. That's why I think it'll be very important, and in case it's necessary, to change the Law of Payments in the State Administration if it's not good enough at this point, so that it's consistently applied so that the salaries are paid for by the same archaic everywhere in our territory, which isn't today. Not only that, I think it's very important that from this moment on, the real decentralisation begins, but it doesn't just mean more money in one place, it means shared responsibility. As of today, more responsibility, because more resources are in the hands of local self-government. I know that many of you are in that position, so that's good, because we'd be able to further curb that gray economy that violates the principle of tax law, by transferring tax burdens to only those who work fairly and pay taxes fairly. I declare that all representatives of local self-government are invited to meet at this home on 12 April, Friday, at 11.00 hours not only to look at the consequences and, I would say above all the positive effects of this law, but also to consider all the other issues that are necessary for local self-government to be as successful as possible. Because a successful local self-government is one of the first effects and most visible to the lives of our citizens. It will also be a successful Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-28-0.u19469	I thank Mr. Secretary. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. I put to the vote the draft law on the volume of funds and the participation of municipalities and cities in the income tax and sales tax in 2002 as a whole. I ask the Members of Parliament to plead with the vote. For 131 against 49, the abstentions were not voted 15, a total of 195 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted a bill on the volume of funds and the participation of municipalities and cities in the income tax and sales tax in 2002, in general. Ladies and gentlemen, please, I suggest we take a break by 15.00 hours. Since the break will be longer, I ask you all to come at 15.00 hours. Session of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs at 1400 hours on the IV floor. The president of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs asked that members of the Committee come immediately, in 15 minutes, to the IV-story room. [[After a break.]] Please, in order to determine the quorum, insert your cards into the MPs' units. I figure we've got a quorum and we can keep working. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Financial Support for Family with Children You have adopted the Bill, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Radojko Petrić and Joca Arsić; Radojko Petrić, Joca Arsić and Živodarka Dacin; Dragan Tomić, Ljubomir Muć and Joca Arsić; Miomir Ilic and Dragan Todorović; Đura Lazić, Milan Janković and Joca Arsić; Joca Arsić, Branko Rusić and Toma Buzetić; Đura Lazić, Rade Bajić and Stevan Gudurić; Branko Rusic, Toma Busetic, Dusan Cvetković and Milan Stanković; Toma Bušetić, Joca Arsić and Nebojša Jović; Joca Arsić, Živodarka Dacin, Sreten Mitrović and Dragan Jovanovic; Rajko Baralić, Branko Rušić and Hranislav Jožić Perić; Jožović, Jožić; Jožiljan Žovar Žović Žović, Vrić, Vrović and Živić Živar, Dragožilić, Živić, Živić, Živić and Živić. National MPs Branko Ružic, Toma Busetic, Dusan Cvetkovic and Milan Stankovic withdrew, in writing, the amendment to Article 29. You have received reports from the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the total time of debate in the principle of parliamentary groups, are five hours, and I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately with the order of MPs. I'm opening a principled search. Does the representative of Mrs Gordana Matkovic, Minister of Social Affairs, want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-28-0.u19471	Dear ladies and gentlemen, you have before you the law on financial support for families with children, whose urgency is to regulate in one place those issues concerning this material support. Essentially, one of the basic ideas behind this law is to separate what are social measures from what are the measures of population policy. Of course, there is a significant number of givings, which existed before in the system, within the framework of the Law on Social Care of Children and Intentity, was that what is actually given to families with children, which should be related to their material position, is completely separate from what are giving to families with children who need to regulate, i.e. to influence the promotion of birth. Basically, this is primarily about four kinds of measures. The first is the compensation during maternity leave and leave for the care of the child. This is a question regulated by the Labour Act: The Labour Act provides for a three-month maternity leave to last, and that the absence for child care is what is complemented by a year, and this law regulates the amount of such compensation and the amount of that compensation is equal in both periods, so it is 100%. What is in a certain way different from the solutions so far is that the amount is limited by five average earnings in the Republic and now it does not differ depending on the order of birth of children. A second right which is a new right is called a parental supplement. In fact, I have to say that we've been trying, given what the budget for this year is, and what was planned in general with the budget for the protection of children, or families with children, to take into account all the measures that were supposed to have a population effect (meaning, baby equipment, maternal supplement, different amount of child's supplement depending on the order of birth), believing that if those funds, which are small and are given over a long period of time, are given as one giving, one time, they can have a greater effect, in terms of encouraging birth. I am sure that neither you nor our population at all are required to inform about what our demographic situation is and how important it is to focus a part of the measure on stimulating birth. So the parental supplement would be given for the second, third and fourth children, because actually encouraging the children of this birth order is significant, when viewed from a demographic aspect. So, there are still enough children born, as the first children in the family, but what has a significant impact on our poor demographic image, if I may say so, is an insufficient number of children born as children of another, especially the third and fourth order of birth in the family. Also, when it comes to the parental supplement, since it is a population measure, it is not conditioned by the financial aspect or material position of the family, because it should actually have populational effects. The only thing that should have been ruled out in a certain way by those who are the richest, is some extremely high tax base, which crosses 12 million dinars. When it comes to a child's supplement, he now needs to perform his social function, it's the same for all children, regardless of the order of birth. What's also important is that so far, the child's supplement could only qualify on the basis of the last quarter of the previous year's receipts, and those receipts were compared to the census. What's new and what we think is good, in this solution, is that you can now absolutely at any moment submit that request and that your income from the previous three months (means, not from the last quarter of the previous year), is compared to the censorship. Census is also the same for the entire territory of central Serbia and Vojvodina. There are no less developed municipalities than those that are more developed, which we also think is important - since the amount of child's supplement is such that it covers only the elemental needs of the child or most elemental, then there is no reason to place them in a special position of those less developed municipalities and that the censorship is lower. When it comes to greater rights within the child's allowance, greater rights, means an increased amount of child's allowance and better conditions for censorship have children without parental ageing, as well as families with children who are distracted by development and families where single parents are present as the only parent. What's different, too, is that now this right can also be achieved by foster families and families who adopted children, because we think it's very important that the fewer children are in institutions and we're going to try to put this family in a more favourable position than they've been in so far. The last right applies to the parental part of the price for children in preschool institutions. So, the state would make up for, that's the right that existed before in the Law on Social Care for Children, but for those families that have the right to have children's allowances, for poor families, it would make up for the price of staying in a preschool institution, and that right would apply to children without parental ageing. So far, it has been true for children in institutions, but it is also important for children in foster and foster families, and for children distracted by development. This is what this law regulates, and we hope it will have better effects and that it represents a step forward in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-28-0.u19472	I thank Mrs. Matkovic, Minister of Social Affairs, do the rapporteurs of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Please, the word has the deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group, followed by Mr Srdjan Petrovic, deputy member of the DOS parliamentary group -- the Democratic Party of Serbia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-28-0.u19473	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have before you a bill that the Serbian Radical Party cannot accept for several reasons. The first reason is because this is a marketing bill. The Law on Social Care for Children has drawn several chapters and a dozen members of that law and has been arranged in the same or more restrictive manner than before, with, I admit, and some newspapers relating to the parental supplement. Why the law is called the draft law on financial support for the family with children, when it is restrictive towards families with children. Why is the bill not called the draft law on financial support for families with existential and material difficulties, whose monthly incomes are below some of the norms set by the legislator. I was happy to hear that we're going to consider financially helping families with children. I thought that we would have the opportunity to vote for a bill that would at least look a little like the Serbian Radical Party programme, and that's why my disappointment was great when I saw new lawmakers making the same mistake that they made before them, which is that children and especially mothers are separated, classifying, grouping those mothers who work, those who don't work, those who live in the city, those who live in the village, and children who have had 90 acres of land or a hectare of land, whether they have average receipts of 2,750 dinars per month or 2,760 dinars per month. Serbia is threatened by the white plague and no one should be given any information about it anymore. Go through all the villages, and I know the best situation in forest villages, in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and you will see huge school buildings, some even built in the last century, some early this century, which were once too small to receive all children who go to school, and now they have enough one teacher or one teacher for all eight primary school classes. Is it our desire to have children in Serbia? Well, let's prove it concrete. Let all children have child support. Is it our desire to have mothers in Serbia, to have families in Serbia? Let each maternity family have a maternity allowance. Why is she the only one who works? What about the woman who lives in the country? There's no working relationship. Well, now that he doesn't have a working relationship and has a baby, the third day can go to the field. A woman who works in an office or in a factory can't work for a year, the state will finance her basic needs with some addition, and a woman who never earned anything can't earn even when she has a child. Does it matter to us that children are born? Let them be born in all families, if we claim that there are many rich people. They will thank the state for it, and they will say, "I don't need it." Give it to someone who is poor. But to determine in this situation, where more and more poverty is being born every day, more and more poverty is being created, a lot of people are losing their jobs, some limits to which a child is worth the state, so he needs a little help and a border over which a child no longer needs to be helped, I think at least it's inhumane, not to use some other literary term that gives me notices here, so I'm even taking away a word. In my time in June 1996, I submitted a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Social Care for Children, which perhaps 60% was accepted by MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, even though we were then an opposition party. I admit it myself, explaining the law, that I realize that it may be impossible, and I've given up many suggestions, even from this which I now present, that every child has a child's allowance. But you're a country that helps the whole world. Why are you spending money on computers, on armored cars? Spend it on children's supplements. Spend it on maternity benefits. Why the set of security? Why travel abroad? You spend it on kids, let the kids live. After that, everything will be easier. Well, for you now, the child has stopped being a 19-year-old child, although he wants to go to regular school, even though he's a great student of higher school or college. You say you're finishing primary and high school, I'm not giving you any more support to study school. Now let someone else support you. Milka, is there anything you want from there? [[Sagar.]] I hear there's some gum, like the window's open. (Milka Marinkovic: I give you advice. Come on, let me give it to you. You even say in Article 1(1) that support will be given to materially endangered families with children, and you do not call the law supporting families with children. It's no good. Something's not right here. The exercise of the rights provided for by this law binds you to some income, to some property, not to have a child born or to have a mother give birth. The rights provided for by this law bind to whether a woman is health insurance or not. Where did you get that right now? How many Serbian citizens don't have health insurance? Can't they have kids? Can't they have kids? Ban them from it, and don't condition them with it. This is what you get through Articles 14 and 17. Only if they exercise the right to health care through the Republic Health Insurance Office can the parent exercise the right to a child's allowance. Only if she achieves health care or a parent can the right to a parental allowance. On what grounds? How many Serbian citizens do we not have health care, no regulated health care? The rights provided for in the compensation of earnings during maternity leave are linked exclusively to two categories of citizens, to those who work with legal and natural persons and those who carry out their own work. And the unemployed, the ones who don't have a job, the ones who never get a job again while you're in power? You're firing people from work and those who worked until yesterday. Will they be able to have children? Will they be able when a child is born to exercise three months' rights plus nine months' rights, later called child care for up to a year's worth? For them, you prescribe the amount of wages, and for those who had no profit before that, there will be no income for them, nor any income for them, nor those that are in Article 12 of Item 3 provided for as a minimum profit, for that category which is on your side to be left without that right. If one law is passed to break the previous one, don't even bring it. Bring a law that you will think about in detail and determine whether it can help the citizens or not. If that's small, and here the rights are more restrictive, the way the rights are acquired is more restrictive than under the current bill, then don't pass that law. (President: Time. I'm finishing the first part. It won't even be possible for television to wrap this up in the coast and present tonight as-- turn off the lights, give birth to children, now there'll be money from the state, the state will help you have children and raise them. We are absolutely against this bill. We tried to fix it in just one day, as long as we had at our disposal, with amendments, and you decide how to proceed.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-28-0.u19474	The word is Mrs Gordana Matkovic, Minister of Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-28-0.u19475	The reason why the law is not called for materially endangered families, because it is a fact that two rights are related only to materially endangered families, is that there is also the part that applies to all families, which is a parental supplement, meaning for anyone who receives a second, third or fourth child and which is not related to maternity leave, of course, to the material position. The idea is to limit the amount of the fee with five average earnings and it is also regulated that one who has over five average earnings does not pay contributions and that is something that is regulated by other laws. So it's some measure that was considered normal to be the state that would make up for it to the employer, and what is beyond that remains, of course, on the employer to make up for it himself. (Tomislav Nikolic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-28-0.u19476	You didn't mention it at all. The word is from MP Srdjan Petrovic, deputy president of the DOS parliamentary group -- the Democratic Party of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-28-0.u19477	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Presidency, this law certainly needs this country and this nation. We can't call it reform, because this law probably should have been passed at a time when there wasn't a word about reforms, I'm not going to say five or six years ago, but maybe 20 or 30 years ago. Because this problem, especially with the part of the law that treats population policy, the problem is, you can say, most of the world, and especially the part of the world that we live in. It's a problem of modern times, and we've had to do this matter, and it's a good thing she's here right now, legally to shape. We are aware that we have more, more and more, that this reverse age pyramid is happening, that our population is ageing and that it is certain that they are consensual, it can be said, people who are atheists, religious people, members of different religions. It has its own economic dimension, which we will see when we come to concrete problems, that practically the existing pension insurance system that works in most countries has a certain problem; it comes to the situation that these pension funds have no place to be filled, because normally young people, the people who are employed, are not. In our terms, this problem is expressed in another way, because we can't still get a job with the young population, so that doesn't mean that we can put this problem out of our hands, put it into another order of problems, because eventually we're going to face the same thing, so the problem with the lack of population, the lack of labour, and that is a certain economic problem. This law has those two parts, part population and part social. So far, solutions in the applicable law have mixed those two things and that was not good. It wasn't good because the social element overlapped with the population element. Population policy should have as wide a basis as possible, to treat as many citizens as possible, as many families, poor families, families in underdeveloped areas, families in areas with low birth, and so unfortunately, the whole of Serbia, and families that should belong to a middle class, and I think that this is the fundamental advantage of this law, the basic newspaper in this law. A parent supplement institution has been introduced and a number of families should, in a situation where they plan their generation, when planning their future, in a way economically stimulate them to opt for a larger number of children, mean for more than one child, and this should certainly help a certain nationality. It's a good thing it's a one-time help, because then she can through that one-time payout of people to encourage an increase in the family. What may be the problem of this law, but also other laws that treat the area of social policy, is a particular situation where it is very difficult to record population incomes, meaning incomes that are largely based on the gray economy. The law has offered some solutions here, it's a matter of practice how much it will succeed, but I say again, it's a general problem of society, not just social policy. What is important in the part of social policy is that children pass without parental ageing into new families, they are encouraged by their adoption by the foster family, which I think is a new element. For all of these reasons, this law is certainly needed, it is good that it is taking place, although with delay, and for these reasons the Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group will vote in favour of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-28-0.u19478	Are any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, answering for a word? Yeah. ) Here you are, MP Radojko Petric, authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-28-0.u19479	The respected presidency, honourable MPs, respected Madam Minister, in light of this proposal for a law on the financial support of families with children, the government explains that it has made significant improvements compared to the current law on social care for children. It states that conditions are being improved to meet the basic needs of children, to provide specific incentives for the birth of children and support for materially endangered families with children distracted by development and children without parental ageing. If it were true, there would be nothing to object to. In that case, SPS lawmakers would also support the law as proposed by the government without a reservation. However, when reviewing all the proposed provisions of the law is carried out, it is evident that lower rights are introduced, a series of restrictions compared to the current Law on Social Care for Children. Some proposed measures will have a negative impact on Serbia's demographic policy, in fact, not to encourage the natural growth of the population through the birth of more children. Excepting a parental supplement that is introduced as a new measure of helping a family with two to four children and which is an incentive measure in the population's growth and instrument of population policy, other provisions in the good part represent an improvement in the current situation. We can also make sure of the findings expressed: First, the special protection of a third child in a family with three children is abolished. According to the current law, it was regulated that regardless of material conditions, the right to add to children has a family with three children for a third child. Now this right is shut down for these families when they cross the material census, which is otherwise far more unfavourable for all families. If we also take into account the new Labour Act in the front context, where for a third child the maternity leave and care of a child for a year, or more than two years when another 28 and 45 days before birth were realized, this absence is now reduced from two and more years to a total year and we clearly see how unfavourable this measure is. Can anyone claim that this measure is not anti-popular? It represents a step back in the current demographic policy of fostering the natural growth of the population. Secondly, it is difficult to justify the government's approach, which excludes specific stimulating measures to stimulate the natural growth of the population in the areas of municipalities, i.e. parts of municipalities with a negative rate of natural growth. This has been taken into account by the Socialists, and this has been applied to the right to a child's allowance, mother's allowance and help with the child's equipment. Third, the government suggests that a child's supplement belongs to a child until 19 years of age if he is in the capacity of a regular student at school. True, this provision has been valid so far, with a reminder that up to now, socialists have provided child support for up to 26 years of age if children were in regular higher education, i.e. in higher school or in college. Because of the known disasters affecting Serbia, starting with the breaking of Yugoslavia, economic sanctions, the cost of providing a large number of refugees, transitions, and down to NATO destruction, certain restrictions had to be imposed. Now, according to DOS information, the economic situation is much better, it is normal to expect the government to ensure that children's allowances are paid to children up to 26 years old when they are in regular higher education, actually when they are in higher school or college, and socialists have practiced it for years. The fourth restrictive measure, the proposal for this law abolishes the maternal supplement. I remind the public that the right to a mother's allowance was given to every mother who wasn't in a working relationship, which means she wasn't employed. She had the right to have the first three children in the family for 365 days from the birth of a child. The right to a maternal supplement was achieved by an unemployed mother and for the fourth child in the family who had a residence in municipalities with a negative rate of natural origin, and this right was regularly and beneficial. Not all of this can be replaced by a newly introduced parental supplement, especially when it is not predicted for the first child. Obviously, there's a reason to keep paying the mother's allowance. The fifth restrictive measure, this new law abolishs aid for newborn equipment. The right to help the child’s equipment had every mother for the first three children in the family; in municipalities, that is, in parts of municipalities with a negative rate of population growth, she had the right to do so and a mother with four children. The aid for the newborn's equipment was paid once. The basis for calculating the amount of this aid was reduced since June of last year, in fact, as from the same date the reduced basis for calculating the amount of the right to a maternal supplement. It is logical to maintain this measure and continue to pay out aid for newborn equipment. The sixth, may the government's proposal be justified to ensure that family support rights with children are affected by the incomes families make and on the basis of compensation for other people's care and assistance. This is covered by Article 4. It's a bill of law. The compensation for other people’s care and assistance is otherwise insufficient to cover the costs of seriously ill family members and not counting other problems with care and treatment of such members. Indeed, if help is provided for other people’s care, it is indeed a difficult patient. Now that material censorship needs to get into it, too, so it doesn't use other rights of that family. It is also unsustainable that the severance paid by the worker due to the cancellation of the employment relationship affects the exercise of his family's financial support rights with underage children. When a family member loses his job and supports children, he needs much more help than getting away with it. It is unclear when in this article, it is the same in Article 4, says that the mothering supplement also enters as an income item in calculating the right of family support with children, and the same law abolishes the maternal supplement. This Article 4 requires the exclusion of certain incomes which are intended to condition the exercise of the right to support families with children, such as compensation for physical damage. Please, even the compensation for physical damage has been taken to influence the material censorship for the achievement of other rights of families with children; then, material security achieved under social protection regulations, social benefits and so on. Furthermore, he especially deserves attention to better regulate the right to financial support for families for the first child. The status of these families, according to the government's proposal, is getting much worse. Family with first child is usually the biggest needs at the beginning, because they need to provide suitable equipment, start from cradle to all other necessary supplies when a small child comes. The right to an add-on can hardly be achieved because of high censorship, and the receipts are divided into only three members. The aid for newborn equipment is being abolished. It is that a significant incentive measure for population growth is a parental supplement introduced by this law. However, it is foreseen for families with two and four children; for the second child 50,000, for the third child 90,000, for the fourth child, 120,000. At least what would have to be done, it is to ensure a one-time payment of the parental allowance and for the first child of at least 30,000 dinars. I point out that the government's explanation given in this proposal cannot be confirmed that significant improvements are being made in relation to the current Law on Social Care for Children. This is best discussed on the last page of the bill's reasoning, and it reads: "The analyses and evaluations of the application of the existing Law on Social Care for Children and the proposed law on financial support for the family with children indicate that there will be no need for additional funds to apply the new law." Is it difficult to conclude that no new and increased funds have been provided for these purposes? So there's no improvement in this area without new funds. Finally, to point out this: the SPS parliamentary group has submitted 15 amendments, with the best intention of improving the government's proposal in the interest of citizens. The understanding of our efforts and acceptance of the amendments will also depend on our commitment to provide support for the law to be passed.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-28-0.u19480	Are any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The word has the Minister for Social Affairs, Mrs Gordana Matkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-28-0.u19481	Let me just say it one more time -- yes, I said in my argument that it wasn't a larger asset. Now the question is how do you use the funds you have at your disposal? It is also an answer to the question of why some rights are abolished. We cannot introduce within the existing budget a new right that represents some significant giving while at the same time retaining other rights within the system. We thought it was more important, for example, for a mother who was unemployed to get 50,000 when another child was born, at the birth of a third child of 90,000 dinars, than to receive a maternal supplement over the course of a year, which is a smaller sum. So it's now a question of some efficiency that some measure can also assess its effectiveness. The question about the maternal supplement, why it is still mentioned, is that since the law enters into force on June 1st, those who achieved this right before June 1st will realize it until it is exhausted during those years, so that it will exist as a payment from the budget while there is a basis for its payment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-28-0.u19482	Since there is no more president of the parliamentary groups registered for the word, we are moving to a principle debate of MPs according to the application for a word. The word is a folk letter from Bojana Aleksic, followed by the MP Adam Urosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-28-0.u19483	We at the DSS support the adoption of one of these laws, and we will support the adoption of any law aimed at increasing the birth rate. We all know how children were treated and how they treated children and families for the past 50 years, especially for the last 10 years. We all know how much there's been a drop in living standards. We all know that these same maternal supplements, which we're talking about here, were something that was more imaginary, because these maternal supplements were not paid at all at all, paid off with a huge delay or, especially at the time of inflation, were almost desensitized. Therefore, we welcome the separation of population from social policy and consider this to be a good measure. However, one such law certainly cannot permanently resolve the issue of the country's rise in birth rate. To seriously address the issue of childbearing, we need to take care of everything that will lead to, above all, the social security of citizens, which will lead to an increase in living standards, which will allow young people to decide at all to marry. And when they get married, they decide to have children, only then comes a third life-saving decision, a decision to give birth to a second, or later third, fourth, and next child. We all know that today young people have a hard time deciding to get married. We all know that today it is almost impossible for a young man to resolve the first and basic question, and that is the question of living space. It is certainly something that the Government of the Republic of Serbia should start to think very seriously about and bring about laws that would introduce some kind of relief, stimulate these young people, enable them to somehow see their future and catch on to something that would stimulate them to get married, to see some bright spot, some hope. Otherwise, we will again have a great outflow of young people abroad, as we have so far. We are all witnessing that a large number of young people say very often - we stayed in this country, we waited on October 5th, we hoped it would be better, and now, after all, we will still pack our suitcases and leave the way of Australia, the way of Canada. That's what the government needs to think about, how to prevent it. When we talk about principled objections to this law, which is generally acceptable and which we support, we cannot help but notice that there are some language misunderstandings. We, as the DSS parliamentary group, did not want to submit amendments in this regard, because it was some technical corrections. That's why we urge Madam Minister to sort of improve the text of the law myself in the light of technical regulations. For example, Article 3 refers to the order in which children are born. It's a bit of a ghastly expression of "the order of birth of children," when we talk about the law. Maybe we need to find a better formula. This is how it turns out that the law determines the order in which children are born. Also, in Article 4(2), subparagraph (4), there are, among other incomes, income from the mother’s allowance, which seems to be contrary to the spirit of this law. The mother's supplement, in itself, is something that makes it easier for a child to be born. Why is he put in here for income now? We know that this maternal supplement is usually used by poorer layers of the population. Then, sub-point (5) of Article 4 states that income is to be included in the compensation for other people's care and assistance." It's not income, it's a fee of temporary character, to accommodate a person in an adequate facility. Furthermore, there are linguistic misunderstandings in Article 6, when talking about apartments and those who have apartments. In Article 15, there are also linguistic misunderstandings. The way the first attitude is formulated can be interpreted as if the aid would be paid this June and no more. In fact, it's about the help that will be paid every year, only that June 2002 is the first time the payments start. In that sense, this should be linguistically explained. It should be borne in mind that this law will be used mainly by broad layers of the population, meaning people who are not legally professional, so the language of this law needs to be clear and unequivocal. Also, very often the nominal amounts are mentioned, we think that maybe one member should have regulated all the nominal amounts and the way they were calculated, so that later we wouldn't have to coordinate it; so it might have been simpler if the later members had called precisely for that member referring to the nominal amounts, which was left out here. All in all, to repeat, we support this law as a representative group of DSS, but we urge it to be just one in a series of laws that will really allow for a better life and a rise in birth in this country, which will truly encourage young people to marry and have children. Finally, another grudge against this law. There's no mention of twins or threesomes. Namely, the same is true of this Article 15. What happens if that second, third, fourth child is twins, triplets, which cannot be predicted at the moment of their conception.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-28-0.u19484	Thank you. The People's Messenger Adam Urosevic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people, Miroljub Veljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-28-0.u19485	The esteemed presidency, brothers and sisters of Serbs, respected representatives of national minorities and peoples, is the ultimate political hypocrisy to advocate and promise a better future, while ignoring and closing their eyes before the drastic fall of birth; in addition, selfishly with the skirts to wrap one or two mezmices, and under the pretext that we do not have enough material resources. In addition to natural cataclysm and disasters, resulting in the disappearance of many nations and civilizations, carelessness threatens the Serb people to disappear from these areas and experience the fate of Maj and Astek. There are many reasons why young couples cite decisions to give birth to one or two children. Material conditions always come first. As soon as the baby sees the light of day, it is necessary to create an average annual salary for the basic needs of the baby and the mother. With a maternal supplement, which is more than a year late, or with modest monthly incomes, there will be difficulty revitalising the Serbian family, which depends on the survival of our nation. Therefore, we must create conditions for mothers to give birth without fear and raise their offspring, that each family has dignified conditions for life and that each child starts with the same material social position. The state of the Serbian people is neither now nor will it be so poor in the future that it cannot materially support parents and children. Parenthood should become an invitation and be recognized as a working relationship. If a woman wanted to be just a mother, she'd get a third child's income as if she were in a working relationship. A similar solution is applied in some countries with low birth, and Serbia belongs to countries with low birth, because it has a negative natural growth. This means that we are less born over the year than the inhabitants die. The decline in fertility rates - i.e. the reduction in the number of children born per woman in the so-called The woman's fertility period, aged 15-49, and in that period she's biologically capable of giving birth - to 1.4 children, brings us below the free reproduction and below the threshold of rebuilding the Serbian people. According to research conducted by Professor Marko Mladenovic, in 50 years, Serbs will be a national minority in Serbia if this fall continues. Therefore, besides all other real and missed revolutions, an urgent biological revolution is needed, as every year in Serbia about 20,000 inhabitants die out. In defense of biological death, everyone, with a strong vision of the future, doctors, humanities, sociologists, economists, writers, historians and politicians, should participate. The SSJ is the only political organisation that founded an out-of-party "Third Child" charity fund eight years ago, with the aim of helping families with three and more children, to improve social, economic and other conditions for raising and raising children. A number of humanitarian actions and gifts to families with three and more children, institutions for staying children, schools, hospitals and maternity homes, and, if not a role model, the Third Child Fund is to be put to sleep by all those institutions that should deal with the most innovative policy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-28-0.u19486	Thank you. The People's Messenger Miroljub Veljkovic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of Zivodark Dacin.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-28-0.u19487	I'll try the proposed law in this short time to look at it with two slightly different aspects. First, it is clear that the adoption of this law will increase social spending, i.e. the debt of the state to the population will increase. The state that has a budget deficit of 50 billion, i.e. a state that has a fiscal deficit in the form of unsettled budget commitments, I mean obligations towards employees in social activities and state administration, childcare obligations and mothering allowances, old foreign savings, renaissance loans to Serbia, etc., means a state that has a large unregulated public debt for populist and propaganda reasons virtually lies to its citizens. We'll give you some rights, but unfortunately, you won't be able to achieve those rights properly. It's about that policy. Instead of the state starting to deleveraging towards the population by already created debt, you're increasing that debt by such a solution. Under the conditions of a constant fiscal deficit and a large unregulated public debt, you will eventually see this kind of solution as an erosion of trust in public institutions and totally undermine the economic stability of the state. Honorable MPs, unregulated public debt, the unregulated debt of the state to the population is a constant threat to social peace. Look what's going on in Serbia today. The state simply has to diverge towards the population, not because of cheap political points, the debt increases even more with such quassurings. A shift in fiscal policy management must be made, income and budget expenditure must be balanced in a short time. This is not a question for Mrs. Matkovic, this is rather a question for the incompetent finance minister. It is a much more interesting finding in the context of this law, which is a question for Mrs Matkovic, that he will be an important instrument for population policy. This legal solution introduces a new category of social giving, which is called a parental supplement. So for the second child, parents will get 50,000 dinars, for the third 90,000 dinars, and for the fourth child, 120,000 dinars. The bill promoter assures us that if we promise this money to young women in Serbia, they will start giving birth mass and that this will increase the birth rate in Serbia. It's a total nonsense. You convince us that material incomes are the only or defining reason for negative birth rates in Serbia. That's just not true. I'll try to prove it to you. The countries of Western Europe and the United States are countries of an extremely high standard, social standard or so-called country. social well-being. Is that where we all agree? However, according to the UN forecasts, and I hope Mrs Matkovic knows this, there will be incredible demographic shifts and changes over the next 50 years. All 10% of the population on the planet will have a European origin and this population will be on average over 50 years old. When I say European origin, I mean the descendants of Europeans in the United States, Canada and Australia. At the same time, the population of the so-called population. Third world, meaning poor countries, will grow by 4 billion people. Today, the third world, meaning those poor countries, which do not have these material conditions, increases by 100 million people every 15 months, while forecasting that this rich Europe, in a very short time, will fall from 750 million inhabitants to 550 million. In all of Europe, it is quite clear, only areas populated by Muslims will have a positive birth rate. Unreserved acceptance of all Western values by the Serbians in a demographic sense leads to total disappearance as a people. You can promise, here's what I can guarantee right now, and five million women for a third or fourth child, with this awareness of the people, and this kind of state of women policy won't give birth to children. Risking saying something that may not be politically popular, I believe that the salvation of Serbia and the Serb race depends solely on Serbian women. This kind of feminism, which is today being forced into Serbia, will certainly not help us achieve this goal. The fight for the legalisation of homosexualism by the new government must be detimulative in demographic politics. The population, or demographic policy, which by the way is spoken and does not exist in this country, is a question whether or not to be this people. All capacities and institutions of this society, this Parliament, the Government, the Church, SANU, the media, health and cultural workers, etc. must be included in this struggle. - Absolutely all of them. This battle with the white plague, we simply must not lose. This bill is pure propaganda and pure demagogy. Watch out, the government that taxed children's diapers, school supplies, Bucharests, baby spoons, etc. It's about helping newborn children.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-28-0.u19488	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, The Life-giving Dacin.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-28-0.u19489	Madam Minister, dear fellow Members of the People, given the shortness of time we had at our disposal in obtaining this law, I was really immediately, very interested in it, and I must admit that it seemed very bombing and affirmative to me when I read all the great numbers that were written, because I realized that it would be like some extra one-time help for families with children. Of course, I was glad because this government finally showed up, so I thought, that it had to worry about the basic cell of our society, which is exactly family, and especially family with children. Thinking about it later, I saw that one contradiction appeared again, as it exists in certain drafts of the law, which consists precisely in the fact that when the same things apply to children, in one way the Government shows one picture, and this law quite another. I'm turkeying specifically what it's all about -- a few months ago, we're here, or you, as a congregation majority, the ruling one, passed a lot of tax laws, and with 20%, we taxed everything that was needed for the child's care. It's also children's food, and child hygiene, and children's dressing room and school supplies. We Socialists, and then our amendments actually wanted to make it easier for every family in these difficult economic conditions, but then this majority assembly didn't adopt any amendments. I wonder why, then, as the ruling DOS coalition, you haven't shown that same concern for children, which you want to present with this law today. Then I was thinking that maybe because of that wrong move, she had a conscience with the promoter, as a representative of the government, she wanted the same funds, which she had taken from one child, to give to other children as a single aid. But, of course, that's not the point either. I'll say there's a new term being introduced here for the first time, and that's a parenting supplement. That's what we all probably perceived when we opened the law, which is that the birth of another child gets 50,000 dinars, the birth of a third child gets 90,000 dinars and the birth of a fourth 120,000 dinars. However, it was all done at the expense, which is later explained and said, the same mass that was, but by abolishing the maternal supplement, by removing that infant pack, and the money will be distributed practically to the families as one-time assistance, and I claim that this one-time assistance should be given to every family in Serbia today, or at least very few of those who do not need it, and I argue that because of the difficult economic situation, our family will spend this one-time assistance to pay back bills for electricity, for heating, so that children will not be cold and lightless. So it's really relative to how much suddenly it means paying off that kind of money. And that really sounds a lot, but I'm just going to remind you, because I specifically took some information, what it takes for a newborn to get home from the hospital. Let's say, the baby cot, (I'll keep talking in stamps, we're kind of doing it best, it's easy to translate into dinars and euros) is from 300 to 350 marks, then, a baby cart - 550 marks, a bath stand -100 marks, a kit of cosmetics - about 150 marks, various milk bottles, tea, water - 50-60 marks, walkers - 50 marks, 50 plain diapers (not to advertise these for single use) - somewhere around 100 marks, without talking about it, and today it's a growing case that most of our children need to eat and feed milk, and not to say if all the time they have to take artificial food if the mother doesn't have enough milk. We give one-time help in, like this, a high amount, and what happens after these funds are spent, and let them spend on all of this. Obviously, by comparing that one and the other, it really sounds like big money, and it's essentially absolute still not enough. And don't tell me that all of this I've counted, and I haven't counted much yet, luxury, because, finally, one of the DOS slogans is that we're going to Europe, even though I've known about myself that we've always been in Europe. In view of the fact that in this law, too, I noticed something that we could actually apply - and in a few legal projects in the past months, it was about the introduction of the retroactiveness of the application of individual legal projects, which were solely due to the desire for political reckoning with political inexperiences - I think that if this Government of the Republic of Serbia thinks well about our family and our children, this is exactly the law that could be applied retroactively, at least 10 years ago, when our children were under sanctions, they were born, they grew up, then, when they were surrounded by war, and even in the war itself. So, let's help these kids today, when there's no sanctions, when you, ever since you came to power, get money, money showers all over the place, and since no one in this society has felt that money, let us, give it to our children, let them feel the well-being of these donor couples. Secondly, there is also a limitation of child allowance per family member to 2,750 dinars. I think here, indeed, that solution that stood in the previous law was much more favourable, because, regardless of the conditions for receiving, there was also a category of protection so-called. The third child, when there was stimulation. It is that there are always insufficient funds for children, but still, there was one stimulation, when a family who had a third child received the maximum child's allowance, regardless of the average income, and that was at that point, and it was still, somewhere around 1,150 dinars. And, there was another motivation -- if the mother gave birth to twins in the second birth, both of them, practically, had the third child's status and, no matter how they received, had the right to a maximum child's supplement that lasted until the 18th year. So there is absolutely no dilemma -- we Socialists have always been for protection, certainly and above all, children and families, and we will always be for it. With our amendments, we tried to retain some already acquired rights to make it easier for these difficult economic conditions in which our family lives and to help in some way, I can say, for very brave families today who are solving for an increase in their offspring, which also improves our country's birth. However, I don't like one fact, which is that we are dealing with a very serious one here today, I would say first of all social, law, and by no means, here's more than a year of the Republic Assembly and the Republic Government, we didn't have any reform laws, which is actually a prerequisite that our children and our families could live normally. These would be reform laws that would automatically repair and start the work of the economy, reform laws that would not fire our parents, already planned for this year, which would not be jobless and without any income, but would be employed by the same parents. They would have the opportunity to create a healthy and normal environment in which they could raise their children and make our future better and better, and on the other hand we simply ask the question of sociality. In these conditions, we should, or you as the ruling majority, make it easier for our family, for all legal projects, and then for stimulation, and then, here we are, saying that in some way this would be a more stimulating part of increasing and increasing the number of children in our family. So, we've turned into a congregation that deals, in your words, reform laws on how to sell out the economy and the business that works, how we're going to fire the workers and how we're going to make programs to take care of all those who get more and more vulnerable every day. That is why I think that even after a year, to put it this way, the republic of DOS, the Republic of Serbia certainly did not go the right way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-28-0.u19490	I thank Mrs. Dacin. The word has a folk MP, Dr Goran Cvetanovic. The next registered speaker is MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-28-0.u19491	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I was hoping the proposed law wasn't marketing, but it's obvious that the bill on financial support for the family with children is exactly what it is. What am I saying that for? If you look at Article 38, you can see for yourself that this particular article says that on the day of entry into force of this law, they cease to apply, and then they taxively count, individual members. It just shows that the existing law is only slightly modified, so this proposed law should have been an amendment and an amendment to the law. Obviously, this law is just a restrictive nature and nothing else. I'd like to start with the analysis the Ministry did, that is, for reasons to pass the law. It explains that the principle of universal implementation of measures in the entire territory of central Serbia has been accepted, instead of the current distinction between low and highly natal areas and different rights towards the place of residence, and that is fine. But in the next position, you yourself say, what is true, that in Serbia there is no high birth rate in any municipality, so that your argument does not stand, or you have thus denied it. Then the birth rate is below what is necessary for a simple reproduction, the number of live births is lower than the number of deaths, so it is naturally productive. That's absolutely true. For example, in Grdelica, where there are over 20,000 inhabitants, 246 people died in 2001, and 146 babies were born. That just shows you're right about that. You're right, because one average Serbian family has 0.9 children, so, as a family, as a basic cell of society, there is not one child, while for example Shiptari has 6.6, almost seven children per family, so the fact question is how many Serbs will be in Belgrade in 2100, let alone in border areas, in Medvedja, or in some other parts of Serbia. You say - the means necessary for the implementation of this law - and above all the fact that the right to a mother's allowance and help for the child's equipment has been abolished; you analyse it as a need for the funds to be directed from one part where they went to another, and that, in fact, for the application of the new law, no additional funds will be needed. It reminds me, and you know for a fact that somewhere in the beginning of the year, all pensioners got 12.5% less pensions, and then from that same fund, that pension cuts, that same money will pay off three back-up pensions, and then the government is successful in making up for back-up pensions, and in fact it's exactly the same amount of money, because it's previously cut, and then it's been given to those same people. Finally, in your explanation, you say that the new Labour Act, which came into force in December 2001, is about to regulate the right to leave from the work of parents or guardians, fosterers or adoptors, which has caused the difficulties of the competent state authorities to legally exercise citizens' rights. At a time when DOS MPs voted the Labour Act, Minister Dragan Milovanovic was also present, except that he was physically aware that he was attacking MPs, and we warned him that this law would have negative connotations, you obviously did not want to listen to us, and now, in your own explanation, you acknowledge that this Labour Act and that it has negativity and produce damage. If we start to analyze certain points, let's say Article 10, of income compensation during maternity leave, the absence of child care and the absence of child care for child care, the Serbian Radical Party suggests there should be a third position, or a third member, that is, persons who are not in a working relationship. Indeed, people who are not in employment, unemployed mothers and women who are engaged in agriculture are in a much harder position, especially because their health institutions are far away, they need to reach a health institution from remote villages and for this to take a longer period of time and greater material resources. Since they are at a lower existential level, it is certain that women who are engaged in agriculture, who want to be mothers, need stimulation. The 11th member writes that only five average monthly earnings are needed, and the Serbian Radical Party has repeatedly stressed that motherhood is, simply, the right of every woman, which should be realised, not the social category, and thus only stimulate certain women who want to be mothers. Also, in a member of 12 mothers who are not in a working relationship should surely be covered because I do not see the reasons why they would make any difference. You said yourself you shouldn't stimulate the first child. I would not agree with that, nor would the Serbian Radical Party, because there is a generic period when a woman is to become a mother, which is about 22 years old, and it is known that there is a period of two years that it takes a woman to return to the physiological state, so women should be stimulated to become mothers at the right time, not that the stimulation only of the second or third child is achieved by that right. It really is necessary for all women to be exactly the same, both for the first time and for the second and third children, and it is obvious that for the third child you have abolished the child's allowance. In the end, I would just say, let's say, in Article 24, it says that the cost of staying in a preschool institution for children is distracted in development, and you put in Article 24 that you only need part of the cost of staying in a preschool facility that is located in a network to fund itself in fact. You yourself know what kind of children they are, precisely because they are distracted in development and because general communication with them, in the current situation, what health care is now, is needed and how to help these children, so that the Serbian Radical Party proposes not to be part of the costs but to make up for all costs.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-28-0.u19492	The word is made by MP Rajko Baralic, and the next is the National MP Slobodan Janjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-28-0.u19493	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected journalists, children deserve all our love and all our energy, no matter what we do or what we do. Children deserve a more serious parliament and more serious authority than we have today's government and parliament in Serbia. The bill that regulates two issues, both socially and natally, should, as the current government in Serbia sees, improve the position of parents and, above all, the material position of their children and children to be born. This is a topic where everyone who wants to be looked at can be looked at, but everyone has a duty to have good intentions, because children should not be subject to political profit from any party or any individual, because children themselves are sufficient reason to address them with respect and concern. This law, which tries to resolve some of the issues, can be criticised and should be criticised to the extent that we understand and propose, how we see these things and these issues resolved in a better and more correct way. In this connection, the Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group offers 15 amendments, which are closer to determining or improving certain rights and certain areas in this law. In Article 4, there are several items that we understand are not to stand here, and these are revenues from the impact on the exercise of the rights provided for by this law. We believe and have submitted an amendment that some of these items should be deleted. First of all, it is about compensation for physical damage, compensation for other people's care and assistance and some other items. This state money defines certain families not because these families have better status than others, but that their status is even with the status of other families. So this is the cost and it implies that certain household members improve their status and position in the family itself, and newborn children cannot benefit from it practically, because it is not intended for this purpose. The next thing I want to say here is a member who regulates the limit when it comes to property. I find them incomparable, for example, the number of hectares per household member in the Banat family or family on cable, escalator, goal and other hills. Three or four hectares, as per this basis, is the censorship of the river valleys, is an incomparable advantage compared to three or four hectares where the country cannot give a certain income. That's why I think this thing should be regulated differently or governed by law by discretionary law to the authority of the administration or someone else that it can nimble under certain circumstances, and for the benefit of those who live in exactly these places. There were a lot of words about the birth rate in relation to the economic position of individuals and families. Unfortunately, he's always vice-proportional. The level of emancipation of women and the level of emancipation of the family is also proportional to the number of children in the family, and this is what Mr. Veljkovic was talking about, some other people said. We here need to advocate that various movements like feminists, that different sects that family as such are not recognised, are made impossible by law, but also by all other means, because, gentlemen, only in a healthy and normal family can be expected normal growth. Unfortunately, many NGOs today in Serbia in human rights protection form affirm principles and principles that are directly contrary to Christian principles and which are directly contrary to traditional principles. We, of course, have no right to enter human rights in a way that forbids anyone, nor do I do today, but we have a duty to indicate that there is no affirmation in this country that does not bring any good to this country. There are still a whole series of issues that can be mentioned here, which can be spoken of, but I do want to say that I am not optimistic about the level of rights that our families and their children will receive, because the volume of funds remains the same and in the light of the law says that new funds for these rights are not needed. This means that the existing funds of the Republic of Serbia are being transferred, and that means that perhaps one number of families will receive a little more funding, but it has already been said by counterpart Petric and others that in this way we have abolished some of the rights that we have so far and that we have also challenged families in those regions where the lower birth rate was that they are getting a little more funding than the average here today. In any case, if the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Honorable Mrs Matkovic accept some of the key amendments we have submitted, it is possible that we, as a parliamentary group, will declare ourselves to this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-28-0.u19494	The People's Messenger Slobodan Janjic has the word, and the next one is the Messenger of the people Đura Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-28-0.u19495	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in order for us Serbian radicals to vote for one such law, this law had to be approached much more studioly and this law should have been done by far more professional people, with more patriotic feelings and thoughts for the offspring of Serbia. The first thing that should have been done, which is the starting point - to equalize all mothers and all children in this country, regardless of the receiving and material status of parents, who is variable. You've left hundreds of thousands of workers out of work. These people have children, or they still have children to have, to be educated and taken on the right path. Do these students and students need to leave school because you are destroying the economy and firing thousands of people, or their parents? You're incapable of running this country, especially the economy. This bill should be done much better, i.e. It needs to be done. For many of you from DOS, the first job is the MP, member of the government, assistant minister, deputy minister, advisor, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-28-0.u19496	Comrade Janjic, please return to the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-28-0.u19497	Well, only if you're not listening, then I missed the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-28-0.u19498	Yes, I'm listening very carefully and I'm asking you to come back on the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-28-0.u19499	Gentlemen of the DOS, in a few months you will no longer take those high-level jobs, you have five, six, and eight months of work; you need to start thinking about how you're going to train your children afterwards. Special attention should be paid to mothers, i.e. parents and children in the country. At least they need to be leveled with mothers and children in the city environments, although I personally think they should be given a more favourable material position, because their cost of raising, schooling and the god of treating children is much greater than the family in the city. For example, during schooling, these children travel, and they need to be led to a hospital, etc. It is especially hypocritical and inhumane to deny children over 19 years of age who are regularly educated. This modest amount of child's allowance is a deciding tab on the scale of the final home budget when a decision is made in the family whether a student will be able to continue college for the first, second or third years, not to cause hunger in the family. You need students and students only in the election race to swallow tear gas and destroy power. I believe that everything you've done so far doesn't need to be further motivated, so that we can all get you off our backs as soon as possible and send you to the waste of history. The means that...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-28-0.u19500	Mr. Janjic, please take care of...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-28-0.u19501	The funds you allegedly give to citizens by this law have been taken from them by taxes on children's diapers, children's clothes, milk, children's food, books for students, and high school fees. The DOS mountain is only half DOS.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-28-0.u19502	The word has the People's MP Đura Lazic, and next reported is MP Bozidar Vucurovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-28-0.u19503	Dear Vice President, Ms. Minister, dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I think one such proposal for a law on financial support for families with children has long been needed by our country, given the long-standing problem, the problem of the white plague, or the fall of Natalie. Why one of these comprehensive laws hasn't been passed before, I'll say a few words later, but I'd like to refer to the bill itself. In my view, this bill represents a synthesis of the provisions of several laws on maternity leave, child allowance, child's expenses, child's expenses in pre-school institutions and child benefits with certain damages and so on. The paper in this bill by me is a parental supplement that I see in some ways as compensation for the reduced birth rights under the Labour Act, because under the new Labour Act, the rights of maternity leave, the absence of a mother for a third child, and under the earlier law were provided for the absence of two years. So it seems to me that this is the way you want to compensate for this depriving birthrights for a third child. Especially as a parent, I am struck by Article 37, and that is the last attitude, because everyone who has children looks at children equally and loves all children alike; the last attitude of Article 37 of this bill is discriminated against by my children, because the parental supplement, which is something of value and positive, and which is why it is necessary to welcome the move of this ministry and government, applies only to children who will be born after the date of entry into force of this law. What about the children who were born before that? I think we should sort of find a way to get at least kids to go to school and put them in this position of the law, that is, to make up for the parental allowance. We're not gonna make any mistakes. I think we're gonna help a lot of families. And, finally, what I want to point out in particular and to appeal to Madam Minister, to have in mind the particularly difficult situation of Serbs and non-Albanians from Kosovo and Metohija and Kosovo and Metohija who, not by their own free will, but by the will of terrorists and their helpers, have lost their jobs, in particular I think of workers in the economy, but also of other institutions, and they have children - I think we should as a state to find a modus and way to help these families, because there are many examples that neither father nor mother are working, have lost their jobs, years, and have no income and have nothing to do first of all, to educate children and provide what is necessary. At first, I said why such a complete law on helping families with children, or threatened families with children, was not brought in, and there was a need, given the fall of birth and so on. You see, we have to remember the past years, the severe sanctions against our country, when the economy was hard to survive, worked, when we lived in a really difficult isolation, and even if we passed one such law, I think the entire budget of the Republic of Serbia would go to Kosovo and Metohija, that is, for those users who did not recognise this country as their own, but also how they used everything that the state of Serbia has given on behalf of social aid, and on behalf of children's supplements, pensions and so forth. That's why a law like this couldn't have been passed before, and now I think that elements can be installed that will really help vulnerable families with children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-28-0.u19504	National MP Dragan Markovic, president of the SSJ parliamentary group, spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-28-0.u19505	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Soviet Union believes that what the ruling party has proposed means that a political campaign has begun. The Serbian government cannot provide one-time assistance, because this is a national issue and this assistance must be more frequent, if not every year, then that monthly assistance has families that give birth to a second, third and fourth children. Article 17 states that only those parents who are employed will achieve a child supplement. This law does not stipulate, what the SS requires, that mothers who live in the country and give birth to another, third and fourth children have the same rights as mothers who work in factories. We know very well that the lives of peasants are very difficult and to improve the country's birth rate, so that young people can replace their fathers in the field, we have to create certain conditions for them. Also, this law does not provide for, and I think the minister should make sure that all families, or all parents, young married couples who have a second, third and fourth children, have a mandatory job. This has not been in practice so far; rather than having a compulsory job, parents, or father and mother, lose their jobs, they have been declared excess labour in certain factories. In particular, both parents with three and four children lost their jobs in Kragujevac. That's what the ministry needs to ask the Serbian government. It's also a big problem -- one-time help is being given here; that one-time help might solve some of the problems, because that's what the Soviets know, we have the Third Child Fund. The Third Child Fund has helped over 100,000 families in Serbia so far. We have direct contact with the families and we know they're in a very difficult situation. On the one hand, the state is looking to get cheap political points in a way that will give 50,000, 90, and 120,000 dinars, while on the other hand burdens the family budget. We know if a baby is born, every household must have a room where the baby is located to especially warm up. If this household is heated on electricity, then the family will enter the red, and we know that the price for those consumers who enter the red is high, that the salaries are small and that families cannot settle those obligations they have towards the state. The Soviet Union is asking the minister to take into account the problem that the SS is often talking about here, for mothers living in the country, that these mothers have the same rights as mothers who are employed in factories and that we improve the birth rate in the country, because it is known that villages are extinct. In all municipalities in Serbia, it happens that the old average of households is 50 years old and upward, that older people are left alone in the country, because the birth rate is small, their sons have left them, because the country's life is very difficult and they couldn't live on agriculture. In this way, we would motivate young people to deal with agriculture and, on the other hand, to increase ethnicity in Serbia. I think it's a very important national issue.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-28-0.u19506	The People's MP Bozidar Vucurovic has the word, followed by the MP Toma Busetic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-28-0.u19507	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Serbia is happy today, Serbia is singing out of happiness today, and from the moment this law is passed, until the end of December, which is nine months, Serbia will crush tens of thousands of babies, because our merciful "earthly government", according to David Strbac, has solved all the problems of children and families. So far, we've had one law on child welfare, and now, my God, two. Our beloved government has separated one part of that law and declared it a new and reform law, introducing only one restrictive line. The child and family care law or any financial assistance law is not dependent at all on the Ministry of Family Care, nor on Ms. Minister. She was brought here to defend her indefensible. The law depends on the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Education and all other ministries, and only does not depend on the ministry of social care for children. A few minutes ago, we heard that a terrible drop in living standards in the last 50 years, and especially in the last 10 years, has contributed to the decline of birth in Serbia. It is clear to me that these parties from the uninformed party are politically uninformed, but I do not understand that the shops are uninformed. The decline in living standards in the last 10 years is, they say, small children, small children, compared to the decline in living standards in the last two years, since you've been in power. Such a decline in living standards has not been recorded since 1945. Let's see how you've improved the family's material position. You've increased your salary twice - the same amount of money, and you've increased your salary. That's because you fired half the workers and now the other half is getting their money. You've increased the price of basic life supplies from five to ten times, communal services ten times. At the time of the dictatorial and non-democratic government for 15 marks, the monthly family had... (President: Mr. Vukurovic, please return to the agenda topic. You either don't listen to me or you're not here. But you don't need to be wise enough, ma'am miner, so you can see that your knowledge is thinner and thinner, and your matter is legal as Spanish villages. (President: Mr. Vukurovic, for violation of Article 101, and on the basis of Article 103, I give you a warning. ) The children are taken care of by the release of their parents, and you increase them; they are taken care of by their parents by hiring and you are firing them; they are taken care of by giving their parents financial stimulation, and you are restricting them by material censorship and other restrictions; they are taken care of by not allowing such a president of the Assembly to lead the congregation.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-28-0.u19508	The People's Messenger Toma Busetic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the People, Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-28-0.u19509	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, an emergency procedure for the adoption of this law was not necessary, given that this law would enter into force on 1 June. If this agenda had been 20th in this session, it would have come to its turn. What does that tell us? It tells us that this whole bill has one political dimension and a propaganda purpose and that they are not here in the middle of any particularly good intentions. The legislator points out that the basic objectives of this law are to mitigate the inequality of the standard of living of families with children and reduce parenting costs. Of course, that can only be true at first sight. The mitigation of the inequality of living standards, i.e. the growth of living standards, is much higher in the function of some other elements, and, above all, the launch of production, the strengthening of exports. Of course, there's nothing of this. Since DOS is in power industrial production and does not exist, factories have so-called shut down. (President: Mr. Bushettic, please return to the agenda topic. You have a concrete legal proposal and you limit yourself to this discussion. Please, this is all about the subject. The law itself has many shortcomings. If it is the only legal achievement, and these are the parental supplements, and they only refer to children who will only be born, so that a huge number of children and parents will be in an unequal position. This bill abolishes the maternal supplement and aid for the equipment of newborn children. And Minister Matkovic said a few hours ago that the funds were the same, and what does that mean? We're introducing some rights, and on the other hand, we're already acquired, we're abolishing the rights -- it's simply pouring from the hollow to the blank. For us, a number of restrictions are unacceptable, such as restrictions in article 4. They are talking about the type of income that will affect the exercise of this right or all of these rights. This is primarily about the maternal supplement, the compensation for other people's care and assistance, the compensation for physical damages, severances, etc. Some categories are already being abolished, some with very symbolic means. It is extremely incorrect to refer to these types of income as restrictions for the exercise of all these rights. Some solutions, in turn, are being doubled and are already contained in the Law on Labour and the Law on Social Care for Children. When it comes to the child's supplement itself, the amount of these funds is very low. The child's allowance is 900 dinars; if we look at this article 19, children's allowances are limited -- as for a four-member family, families that have over 11,000 dinars will not have the right to a child's allowance. We know very well what a family can buy for 11,000 dinars. Almost nothing. On the other hand, this little funding mostly comes from donations. We know that the conditions for getting a donation are getting harder. One of the conditions was the release of the Shipar. That's what this government called dislocation, transfer, and in fact, the right word is the release of Cypriot terrorists. The second condition for donations, which should be very significant for these grants, is related to the extradition of Serbian defenders to The Hague executioners. These days, the Americans themselves have admitted that our country has been poisoned by water, soil and air and that it will have far-reaching and devastating consequences for the health of our population. So we should be getting donations from these guys. In the end, only regressing the cost of staying in preschool institutions of children from materially endangered families will go to the burden of municipalities and cities. If all of these rights from point 1) to point 5 are entrusted to the Republic, they should certainly have done so with this point 6), because there are simply over 100 municipalities in Serbia that will be very difficult to monitor, provide and finance institutions and individual functions entrusted to them by the Republic. When it comes to this law, we will decide whether or not we will vote in favour, but above all in the function of the 15 amendments that we have tabled on this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-28-0.u19510	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Srboljub Zivanovic, has the word, and after that, the People's Messenger Joca Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-28-0.u19511	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this law seeks to correct the mistake you have made by voting the Labour Act, especially in relation to maternity leave and the achievement of compensation. When the standard of living in Serbia has fallen so much and fallen to the lowest branches, when 70% of families live on the border of existence, you are playing with the most important issues of today's country, which is a population policy, i.e. natality. You are binding this law on social security, and at a time when Serbia is ruled by the largest evils, it sells businesses and runs out of work. It's another DOS fraud because you promised workers a higher standard of living in a pre-election campaign that factories would work, and it happens to DOS's poverty and poverty syndrome. Children are increasingly using drugs that are welcome for individuals and the mafia. Ladies and gentlemen, this condition requires that the child depends on the ageing of adults over a long period of development, while at the same time reaching the highest level of development in the overall world of life. Dependence on adults in the process of growing up and self-indulgence makes it crucial to be susceptible to the impact of the environment on one of the most significant decisions in human development, in the period when the foundations of its personality are laid and where the directions in which it will develop can be assumed. Today, when Cat farmers strike, when they blocked the town of Sabac, because they want to help their children, because there is no help from the government and the state, today when 70% of the families in Serbia live at the beginning, I don't know if the government's motive and the minister of social affairs is the solution. In view of the importance of democratic development for the performance of positions in the most important areas of social and economic development, the population issue is either a first order or a priority of social and state interest, whose solution, because of the role it has and the reasons for the country's own existence, must take over. The state should set the goals of population development and population policy appropriate to them. The state is one of the largest regulators of social relations and process and their orientation towards achieving the most necessary general and common needs and interests. Children's protection is a form of social protection of children, i.e. social security, which, based on solidarity and mutuality and children's development needs, provides and balances essential material conditions for the development of all children, as well as basic social security of children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-28-0.u19512	Thank you. The People's Messenger Joca Arsic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Aleksandar Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-28-0.u19513	The Honorable Presidency, honourable fellow MPs, distinguished Madam Minister, has already been said quite a bit, the atmosphere is relatively relaxed and the concentration is almost zero. It is a very important and very important law; we all swear and talk about young people, and I think we give them the least of their attention today in this afternoon's debate, as I said, about a very important legislative project. Normally it's not new, the solutions in it are only new in the part that concerns this one-time parental supplement, which is intended for the second, third and fourth children, which I disagree with. I suggest that this right be established with the birth of the first child and that they have both a second and a third and a fourth child. As envisioned by this law that he enters into force on June 1, and that he will once begin to apply from June, and those who learn of this right will have time to accomplish it for at least two years, if it is necessary for some time to give birth to a new child for at least nine months. So these rights will only be established in the next, or in the next years, since they are the second, third, and fourth children. I think that taking away the right of the first child is inhumane, and in particular, it is stated here in discussions and the possibility of having twos, threes, and fours; then we will deprive the child born as a twin, one child will be deprived of that right, and the other child will be given the right established by this law. The second thing, which is my remark, is that this law was never allowed to come to the agenda by emergency procedure, as well as to be included as the 3rd and 2nd part of the agenda, respectively. That is why there is very little room for this law to be learned in one more quality way and to make some remarks both on the amendment and on the fundamental principled character. Here you are also... I agree, Micovic, that we voted, that I did not vote, and that is why I have the right to put it as a remark, firstly, to the proponent who put it to the vote. It's normal for you to have a majority, you can vote and it's today 17. November, but he's not. So it's my right to talk about it. What I was about to say is that it was given the right to a child's allowance, from the first to the fourth child, that it was the right of this new bill to be established for foster families. So, the child in the foster family is going to exercise this right. This is what I'm saying from the experience of the community I come from. In my municipality, in the center of Milosevic, for the family accommodation of children, there are currently about four hundredths of the deprived parenting ageing. All these children are located in the village of Milosevic, in agricultural families. It is limited here by this law that these children, who live in families that have a hectare or half a hectare, or over one hectare, will not be able to achieve that right, which is the village, which is the families that I'm sure they have over this hectare, which receive compensation, though, because they hold children deprived of parental ageing, through this centre that controls. But like I said, children are in families and in those families there are, my people, if you want to listen to me, and complete adoptions. That's what it says about this people's relationship to those children. Despite the children they have, they adopt those children and there's complete adoption and they equate them with their own children. And we're going to limit them to this part where they're said to -- if they have income, besides property. I don't think Mrs. Minister has to now, since I failed to submit the amendment, to answer, but she could think about this and in some other way, or by any subsequent amendment or addition of this law, allow every family to be able to achieve this other right besides the food supply. There was also talk of a previous period, that it was not arranged 50 years ago. I can responsibly claim to you that people gave up their right to the inheritance of immovable property in order to exercise their right to a child's allowance. This suggests that it was once significant and that it had significant participation in the family’s incomes and had a significant impact on the number of family members. In addition to some of the other remarks that we have made, which have been amended, I think we will have more time when it comes to amendments to explain some of our proposals and I will use that time, normally, in that second reporting, on the proposal of my amendment, to put in another comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-28-0.u19514	The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-28-0.u19515	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I wish someone else had sat down as chairman, because if by any chance I mentioned the Spanish villages, I would get a warning. It would be good, Minister, to use this money to take away the president of the National Assembly and give it to any of the children better than to let it go who knows where and who knows how to spend it. In this way, we could do more to help and influence, even under the coercion of the President of Parliament. What the minister said about this pay phone, or whatever it is yours from the women's network, or I don't know what, they call you the minister, as you prefer, it's not exactly true. In fact, it is said in this section, which is new compared to what existed earlier in the Law on Social Care for Children, which concerns the parental supplement, is precisely said in Article 14. - the parental supplement is fulfilling the mother for her second, third and fourth children, provided that she is a citizen of the SRJ, has a residence in the Republic of Serbia and - now goes the condition we talked about, which was spoken of by SRS deputy head Tomislav Nikolic, and this condition is - exercising the right to health care through the Republic Health Insurance Institute. And what about those who don't make it right, what do we do? You were, Minister, the other day, like me, in the masculine-dark neighborhood, so you heard what the peasants say to you, what farmers, those who do not have or to the most extent do not have the right to health care, due to some of the measures that have been brought before, contrary to the opinion and political attitude of the SRS. What we're going to do with all those where we're supposed to encourage and realize, as you say in the explanation, a greater potential effect, and we have, not a white plague, but we don't even have older people anymore, let alone one of the younger people. It is said that it will contribute greatly to, I guess, a better population policy and contribute to a greater birth rate if, for another child, 50,000 dinars, a third child of 90,000, and a quarter of 120,000 dinars, and what about all those obligations that existed earlier on behalf of the state, in a number of years, that no longer exist, but we do it once and we have no more problems. The question is, and it is certain that children and mothers, those who have to take care of their offspring, will not be easier and will not get better. I don't know, the right to tell you, the woman is looking for you, so spend as much as it takes, because I'm about to have another child, and it won't fall under this law, because it's June 2002, but it really goes away a lot of money. I will manage, no matter how much Natasa Micic has taken, but I don't know what those people who have no salary will have much less, or who are fired from work, such as 10, 20, 30, 50,000 Serbian citizens, who have been fired, who are guilty just because the DOS regime is carrying out reforms in such a way and these reforms are praised. And one very concrete remark -- in the Law on Social Care for Children, in what Tomislav Nikolic, the MP of the SRS at the time suggested at the time, and what was adopted, in Article 7, said: "The third child from a family with three children, according to this law, is considered to be the third and next child in the family from the municipality, i.e. parts of the municipalities, settlements, with a negative rate of natural origin of the population". We don't mention a fifth child anywhere, there's no exact definition of what this means. And what are we going to do when the fifth child comes, is there a negative discrimination going on or is there the same rules as if it were a third or a fourth, or another child? It's not there. So, give birth to a fourth child, and don't accidentally have a fifth child; that's something that's completely amazing, especially when we have in mind the fact that it doesn't destimulate the Shipari because they're in a completely different constitutional or legislative order. We don't have that kind of problem anymore, we don't have that kind of trouble that we're going to have to burden ourselves with, so eventually laws like that to pass, so that Serbs don't disappear to areas where they live. So, I don't mind what the government has to say about marketing laws. Each law is somewhat marketing, either good or bad, in a certain way reflected in the final result, according to what citizens will have to do with the Serbian government, according to the DOS regime in general. But what I think is that it would be good for the government to pass one law that is no longer technical, one law that is not prescribed by law, where one or two members is added, so that someone can only boast about how new laws are coming in. (President: Time. The time of Serbian radicals is yet to come. So, it would be good, and last time we talked, Madam Minister, about one technical law, about applying another law, let's see if we can in at least one area, if you're going to be more honest and more correct than most other ministers, make some change, make something objective and serious better, see what we can do here. This way, I fear for all our children, and I guess all the adults, I go from myself, live for the children, we no longer have much for ourselves to live; in order to enable them to do more, to think strategically and allow the survival of the Serbian people and of all other citizens of the Republic of Serbia, it is necessary to accept these changes and to accept the amendment of the SRS MPs. I'd take the opportunity, before they take 3,000 dinars away from me, to invite the citizens of Kickinda and the Northobanat County to come to a big rally tomorrow, a folk rally of Serbian radicals, at 15.00 p.m., in the center of the Kickinda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-28-0.u19516	The word has been given by MP Dragan Tomic, the last registered speaker; the remaining time of the SPS parliamentary group is eight minutes and 10 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-28-0.u19517	Thank you. Dear Members of the People, this law contains a good idea in the title when it comes to financial support for the family with children. However, they skip a series of really important details for the development of the child. Whoever's been into money, needs a family, or has a family, can talk about these things. I don't feel like this law was made on a fast-track, but I have the impression that it has a marketing character in it. Whenever it comes to children, in any case, I'm going to give support, no matter how much this has some of its own criminal approach at the beginning. First and foremost, the law does not treat the first child in the family. It seems to me the hardest thing to do is to form a family, get a first child and put it on its feet. In financial terms, it is the most difficult undertaking, and it seems to me that here in law it is well bypassed, I think, primarily by oversight, and the SPS parliamentary group has responded to the amendments. We expect the Ministry to adopt this; because it is really unacceptable to make different treatments for the first, second and third, not to talk about the fourth child without asking what happens to the fifth or sixth children. Secondly, what happens to families who got a third, fourth or fifth child yesterday, or a month ago, or who will have a fourth or fifth child in the next ten days?- I'm sorry. They won't be treated here. This assistance has a classic one-time character and a desire to resolve family needs in a certain way in the first stage, and we from the SPS welcome it. After all, whenever that act of birth occurs in the family, friends and relatives are always found, who will help the young family to put the first child on their feet. In order to come fully to this area of legal solution, it must be planned, comprehensive, to treat different social categories. There is no treatment of different social categories here -- today, when we are at this stage of the development of society, I have the impression that there is no big difference between the average intellectual family and the average family living in the country. Their conditions are almost identical: both families have conditions for raising children, for starting marriage, for first investment in children are difficult; and one and the other family is difficult to provide primarily financial, material resources to start with. It seems to me that here they only give segments of tax policy and that they do not embrace the overall solution to this problem. The treatment is, in my opinion, negative and it won't bring a good solution in the right way. First, I think we've made a series of mistakes in tax laws, and we've warned from this pay phone that children's food, baby diapers, first basic family needs, children's clothes and shoes, and everything that's necessary for raising a child should have the treatment of tax exemption and tax exemption. We didn't understand each other at first in that area, and it's an insurmountable gap to get our support in principle. Through such tax solutions absolutely, perhaps not in this populist way, this question is solved, but the conditions are absolutely set and treatment is equal for each family. The price of diapers, children's food, children's clothes and shoes is decreasing. You have a situation today, I think, at an exemplar price that the biggest price hike has children's clothes and shoes. Today to provide children's shoes and clothing for some families is a field trip, and I'm under the impression that a lot of them are skipping it. To address this quality, it is necessary to accept amendments to the Socialist Party, which has very high quality proposals and this represents a quality shift in this bill, so I expect it to be adopted by the ministry. When I mentioned social categories earlier - we are now in a situation where both parents are left out of work, that they are burdened by the welfare of this country; that in an inexplicable situation there are rural, agricultural households, for several reasons; they have significant burdens. How? Here, now we're in the spring seed phase, and we need to extract huge funds. Take it easy. [[growls]] I'm talking about peasant land. (Glass - theme. This is the topic. I don't know why it bothers you Democrats to talk about the peasant household. I don't understand. As soon as we mention the peasant households, you're moving something. Is it because of these protests at my place in Machva? Well, our peasants are very good and valuable, so don't worry about anything that's driven out the tractors. [[Sagar.]] But let me get back to the subject. [[growls]] To understand -- they will have the cost of seed; they will have a tax debt, huge for this year. Only pension insurance obligations per member will be over 11,000. It will have an average of 1,500 to 2,000 euros, or 1,000 euros in debt on that basis. Only then comes the family. And when you say reform, we're going into a new path, etc. You're asking for the state to get its own, but where's the family? Family's kind of coming back. Where's the young family? Where's the young couple who's supposed to have the first child? He's not anywhere. Who's going to help them? A peasant land that has one hectare, or one hectare, is treated. There's nothing to do with it. Catastrean income is being treated. What catastrian income? This isn't a real catastrian income. He doesn't have anything in him. He's an irrational category. And when you take all of this that occupys one family, it means the first future existence, investment in production, obligations to the state, not to say -- the obligations for electricity that will arrive in the next period, only then, in the turn of priorities, come its needs. I guess we should put the family first. And we can't do it like this... (President: Mr. Tomic, thank you, you've exceeded your time. )......................................................................................................... Put the family first. I think the amendments of the Socialist Party make a lot of sense and should start with the first child in the family, including over the fourth, because families in Serbia are slowly having five children. Thank you very much. [[Sagar.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-28-0.u19518	The word has the minister of social affairs, Mrs Gordana Matkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-28-0.u19519	I would answer some of the remarks that seem to me to most appear or are, in my opinion, important to answer. So, we have concluded that, according to the Ministry Act, there is a part of the Law on Social Care for Children, and it refers to preschool institutions, which will now become the domain of the Ministry of Education's competence. What's left, and what's in this ministry's jurisdiction. We felt it would be pretentious to call a law on social care for children, because then he would have to cover an incomparably larger number of areas. It was a motive why this is a law on financial support, because it covers those parts that represent financial support for families with children. When it comes to population policy, of course, it is clear that in developed countries there is also a major problem with birth, but experience has also shown that those countries that had population policy measures, which tried to deal with this problem, slowed down or maintained the level of fertility, and there was no such decline as in those countries that had no population policy measures, and even some of those countries managed to restore the overall fertility rate to the level of simple population renewal, such as Sweden for example. So, the problem of the white plague is huge and, as I said in the opening part, it can't be solved only by material incentives, but since this is a law that deals with material incentives, then it's covered. Finally, once again, let me say, of course, it would be very good if we could have bigger donations and keep everything that was provided for by the previous law, but as you know, as a ministry, we have a budgetary limit, and that's the budget adopted by this assembly, and we've been trying to do something that's more effective, so within these limits. When it comes to why not the first child, so if we had as a concept to separate the population measures from the social policy measures, from the aspect of the demographic situation, it is important or important to encourage the birth of the second, third and fourth order, because what analysis shows is that it is not a problem, when it comes to Serbia, of course, an insufficient number of children born first order of birth, and unfortunately one part of the population remains out of the decision to give birth and that material incentives cannot produce results, because the reasons why some people do not give birth to even the first child are not material. When it comes to why we don't help children over 19 - we would have room in a budget that we could support, but since it wasn't even in the previous law, then unfortunately those who are over 19 years old, and regardless of their regular education, they won't be supported as they have been so far. To be honest, since these are people, and since they're not really children, I think it would be much more important that they are supported through scholarships, regardless of whether it's business funds, companies that are important for these kids to be tied up, who are going to finish college and get a job tomorrow; it means that through scholarships this problem is being solved, rather than through a child's supplement that you're going to admit, just for someone who's 25 years old, and it gets it, and it's not exactly something that would be important. Finally, this is very important to specify, when it comes to cost compensation -- so that's actually for the user, for the parent who has a child distracted in development, what he would pay, it is compensated entirely from the republican budget. So we're not making up for what the municipalities are paying for, but what's a user's share of the price, so it's free for the user, if it belongs to poorer families.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-28-0.u19520	This would be the end of today's work. We continue the session on Tuesday, April 2nd at 10.00 hours. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002. In order to determine the quorum, I ask the MPs to insert identification cards into the MPs' units. I figure we have a quorum and we can keep working. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Stevan Lilic, Velimir Simonović, Radosav Savijevic, Petar Misic, Dragan Lazic, Zoran Boskovic, Branislav Pomorski, Biaci Anton and Jelena Milenkovic. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. Also, according to members 83 and 84. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia inform you that I invited representatives of the Centre for Free Elections and Democracy, representatives of the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities of Yugoslavia, representatives of the Student Union of Serbia, representatives of the Alliance of Students of Belgrade, students of the Study Group for Constitutional Law at the University of Belgrade, and representatives of the National Movement "Resistance". We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: - Proposal for a LAW ON FINANCIAL SUPPORT OF THE FAMILY WITH DECOM (principal debate) I will leave the meeting to my colleague Gordani Komic, and I invite the heads of the parliamentary groups to my cabinet to attend the meeting for consultation.
