ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-03-0.u19662	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002. According to official records, the session is attended by 178 MPs, but please insert identification cards into your MPs to determine the quorum. I figure we have a quorum and we can keep working. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Stevan Lilić, Velimir Simonović, Jelena Milenković, Ljubisa Djokovic, Sinisa Mitrović, Neda Arnerić, Išpanovic Istvan and Biači Anton. I am informing the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the meetings of the President of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, Dr Vojislav Kostunica, Deputy Prime Minister of the Federal Government Dr Miroljub Labus, Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Dr Zoran Djindjic, Vice-President, Minister and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of Serbia's Legislative Secretariat. Also, according to members 83 and 84. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that I invited representatives of the Centre for Free Elections and Democracy, the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities of Yugoslavia, the Student Union of Serbia, the Alliance of Students of Belgrade, students of the Constitutional Law Group at the University of Belgrade and representatives of the National Movement "Resistance". I welcome our guests and thank you for coming. I would like to inform you that we have received a letter from the president of the federal state, Mr Vojislav Kostunica, and I invite the president of the DSS Parliamentary Group, Mr Dejan Michael, to read this letter to us.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-03-0.u19663	I would like, on behalf of the President of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, who was invited to this session, to read the letter: "On the occasion of the call from the National Assembly President, Mrs Natasa Micic, I am obliged to take part in the discussion of the starting grounds for redecorating Serbia-Montenegro's relations, I am obliged to point out a few things. Since I am the president of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia by my will, I have negotiated the document and signed it in that capacity. That is why it is only procedurally correct that the opening exhibition in the debate on the initial grounds for redecorating Serbia-Montenegro's relations with the MPs of the Federal Assembly. I will remind you, after all, that I did not address the Montenegrin Parliament, where the opening statements were submitted by those who signed the document on behalf of Montenegro, the president and prime minister of the Republic, Milo Djukanovic and Filip Vujanovic. It is logical that in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the opening exhibition is held by the Prime Minister, Zoran Djindjic. I am willing, however, primarily out of respect for the people's representatives of the Republic of Serbia, and also because of the fact that the preservation of the common state was one of the basic programme objectives that I advocated before and after the elections, that at the end of the debate in the National Assembly of Serbia, I would seek to respond to their possible criticisms and to remove the doubts that might arise through the debate. Simply, my democratic beliefs tell me to respond to all the MPs, whether they are from parties to power or from opposition parties, since you are representatives of the people of Serbia. With respect, Federal Republic of Yugoslavia President Vojislav Kostunica. "
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-03-0.u19664	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-03-0.u19665	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the spirit of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has been injured. You who don't know what the spirit of the law is, like Leila, laugh for free. Leila doesn't know what shrieking is, or what's a bond, let alone the spirit of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-03-0.u19666	Mr. Seselj, I warn you to speak politely of the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-03-0.u19667	Warn the MPs from your MP group to behave politely. The spirit of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. All documents received by the National Assembly or by the President of the National Assembly are multiplied for MPs, MPs receive them in writing and are not read here. These documents have never been read before if they were delivered in time to the MPs. It's the first offense. The second offense, if a document is so important that it has to be read and read because it is just before the session divided, the document had to be read by the president of the National Assembly or by one of the vice presidents, and could not be the head of any parliamentary group. I ask you, on what basis did Dejan Mihajlov, as head of the parliamentary group of a party, read here a letter to the National Assembly of the President of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia? That's two incompatible things. It's a private matter for the president of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia to be president of the DSS. From the point of view of this National Assembly, it has nothing to do with it. This is actually a kind of privatisation function of the federal president. The president of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia is officially the head of the executive branch of government, so this is a kind of humiliation of parliament to task the head of a parliamentary group to read the letter. You who know nothing, you can laugh, you can throw yourself to the will, you can do whatever you want, but while you're in the majority, you who don't know anything, we have no parliamentaryism or democracy.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-03-0.u19668	National MP Vojislave Seselj, the spirit of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, is not injured. We had a meeting yesterday of the heads of parliament, where you didn't attend, which I think is a violation of the spirit of parliamentaryism, and that's where we agreed that Mr. Michael should address the National Assembly in connection with the arrival of Mr. Kostunica. In doing so, we also made some other conclusions, unanimously, except for Mr. Michael, who was restrained, we asked for Mr. President of the Federal State to address us as an opening exhibit. So this letter says that the president did not agree to this and I call on the heads of the parliamentary groups, if they want to, to give an opinion on it. Please, MP Borislav Pelevic, deputy president of the Soviet Parliament group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-03-0.u19669	Dear citizens of Serbia, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Ministers, honored guests, allow me to present to you the position of the Soviet Parliament group. President Kostunica was elected president of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia by the will of Serbian citizens in previous elections. About a million and a half thousand votes were won in those elections for the post of president of the federal state, and only about 100,000 votes were received from Montenegro. We cannot yet accept the fact that the parliament of Serbia and the parliament of Montenegro is being evened out. The federal parliament practically does not exist. There is a parliament in Serbia, because in the federal parliament, the opposition from Montenegro, which is not Montenegro's majority. Unfortunately, that's the way it is. I believe it is the duty of President Kostunica to submit an opening statement together with the Prime Minister, because both of them are accomplices to the creation of this radical common state they called - Serbia-Montenegro. Both have equal responsibility and both have an equal obligation to address the Serbian public in the opening statement, since they have not consulted the Serbian public or the Serbian citizens about where they will live, as the state will be called and how it will be arranged. The Serbian parliament is the right place to be given an introductory presentation, and therefore this letter, which reminds me little of Tito's letter, cannot be accepted as a parliamentary group of the Soviet Union. I propose that the president of the National Assembly postpone the assembly until the appearance of Mr. President of the Federal State, Vojislav Kostunica. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-03-0.u19670	The word has been made by the People's Messenger Dejan Mihailov, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-03-0.u19671	The President-in-Office, you have injured the Rules of Procedure by opening a debate on something that there is no business opportunity to open the debate, which is to discuss the letter sent here, because someone will not attend the session, or attend at the end of the session. You hurt the Rules of Procedure by opening the debate. Everyone will have the right to say, if they have something to say, whether someone should or should not attend the session, but you have absolutely no right to do so because you violate the Rules of Procedure when you open a debate about whether someone will attend and in what way he has addressed. I remind you, there will be a session. If we want to stick to the spirit of parliamentaryism and everything else, it is that the president of the SRJ is the majority, with the will of the Serbian citizens elected to this place, but that does not mean that he has to bring discrimination to this country, because discrimination is not necessary. He simply wants to give the necessary reasons, as it stands in this statement. I think the way that we're trying to open a debate here before the debate on the basics, to discuss some other things, simply completely degrades the debate that we have to have here today, and that's the debate about the future of this country. Someone wants to move the debate on the future of this country to discuss President Kostunica and the DSS or some other things. The DSS will not participate in such a debate if a debate on the letter is held, and it does not take place on the basis of the basics. That is why we insist that if this assembly so wishes President Kostunica will address himself, there is no debate on it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-03-0.u19672	The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-03-0.u19673	You've broken the Rules of Procedure again. You gave the word to Pelevic, a false professor. He's not the head of the parliamentary group. Dragan Markovic-Palma is head of the parliamentary group. (President: I announced him as a deputy. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, the deputy cannot speak if the boss is alive, healthy and present. The deputy can only speak if the boss is not present in any other variant. Secondly, you hurt the Rules of Procedure because you honor me for not coming to your meetings. That's my political attitude. I have no obligation, and I don't have to come to the meetings that you call outside the assembly session, whatever you call them. It's a demonstration of my political attitude towards the parliamentary majority. Third, here you allow yourself to interpret the spirit of parliamentaryism, and when you say "spirit," you have in mind that spirit that comes to you when you drink a bunch of beer. It's not that spirit. The spirit of parliamentaryism and the spirit of the law is something else.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-03-0.u19674	Mr. Seselj, for the violation of Article 101, and on the basis of Article 103, I give you a warning. The word is made by MP Borislav Pelevic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-03-0.u19675	Madam Chairman, I just want to clarify my status that was mentioned earlier for this pay phone. I'm not the head of the SSJ parliamentary group, the boss is Dragan Markovic-Palma. I'm not even the deputy head of the Soviet Parliament Group. Deputy Chief is Mr. Zivko Selakovic. But I am an authorised representative of the Soviet Parliament group, who has the right to represent the Soviet Parliament's group at all points of this session. So much for literacy and so much for knowing the opportunities in the congregation. I ask you, Madam Chairman, to take into account this remark of mine, which has been in place since the beginning of our group's work in the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-03-0.u19676	The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic. (Dejan Michaels: Let's make a statement about the Rules of Procedure's trust. ( b) What member is injured? (Dejan Mihajlov: Article 84) What is the debate here when the debate on the agenda is not open? This is not a debate, this is about meetings that were held by the heads of the parliamentary groups and their agreement, by which you got the word, so others. I can put it to the vote that a violation of Rule 84's Rules of Procedure was committed, and according to MP Dejan Mihajlov, who received his word as well as other members of the parliamentary groups. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. For 46, there are no abstentions, no 55, out of 212 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that there is no breach of the Rules of Procedure. I apologize to you, Mr. Jovanovic. Here, you have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-03-0.u19677	Mrs. Micic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and members of the government, our intention was not to discuss this. I'm sorry about the atmosphere that marks the beginning of this very important session, which is why we resorted to this kind of precedent that opened up such a huge dilemma. Yesterday we made the call to the most responsible political figures of our society, which have a crucial impact, among other things, on our reality and on our future. The topic of redefinition of Serbia-Montenegro's relations is serious and the debate cannot possibly be as it runs at this time. So, first of all, given everything that has marked the state in which we have lived until this moment, given what we want to create, I ask you to grant the course of this session and make a decision that would put an end to everything that preceded my presentation. So we have sent calls to the president of the SRJ and the vice-president of the federal government, expecting these figures to appear before MPs as representatives of Serbian citizens and to open arguments exactly the kind of debate that needs to be followed by a serious topic that we are talking about today. I think there were too many historical precedents that we could resort to something like that today. Let us be inventive in the economy, in education, but we cannot be inventive in parliamentaryism, especially in the way we are proposed in the letter we received at the beginning of the session. I would ask the MPs to make a new decision, which would actually be a distance from the decision we made yesterday and that would put an end to this debate. I don't think anyone can be allowed to come to the end of the session before the MPs and thus degrade us not as representatives of the citizens of Serbia, but the Republic Parliament and all that it represents in this society, regardless of the name, last name or function. Those who wanted to address, who felt that there was a need for this, could do so in the way envisaged by the Rules of Procedure and in accordance with civilized political norms. Everything else is a matter of personal credibility to which citizens will certainly give the most qualitative answer. We thank President Kostunica and will pay attention to him in the Federal Parliament, but it would not be good to be anxious and to expect his performance in the end, a performance that would certainly be questioned entirely by everything we are trying to create, and we are trying to create a decent state that will respect the rules of normal, even civilized political life.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-03-0.u19678	The word is made by MP Branislav Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-03-0.u19679	Ladies and gentlemen, today in the Assembly, we need to discuss a question that affects the foundations of the statehood of the country in which we live. On 30 January 2001, you were asked to allow parliamentary groups, i.e. representatives of all party options in the parliaments of Serbia, Montenegro and the SRJ to discuss, to re-negotiate relations within the SRJ. It has been 14 months since, and it has proved how right we were, what happens when a group of people, no matter what function they perform, let them negotiate independently with the representatives of the European Union. Surely the European Union needs to be negotiated and discussed, but least of all, it is not fair that this European Union, in the image of Javier Solana, with our representatives who have allowed themselves to solve the fate of the citizens of this country, does so. The organiser and mediator of these negotiations, besides the present Mr Djindjic and Labus, was just Vojislav Kostunica. The least he should do towards the Serbian people, towards the citizens of Serbia, because it is finally the president of the DSS, is come to this parliament, to present to us today his views and motives that led him. He should listen to us to the end, what we here think about all this. What he wants to say in the end and not listening to us, least of all, is at the border with the basic elements of behavior. I just want to give an example from Republika Srpska, about those who have negotiated with you, Mr. Djindjic and you, Mr. Labus and Mr. Kostunica who are not here. Representatives of all Serbian parties in Republika Srpska understand and understand that they should be together. And position and opposition. In talks with Petric, however, they fought for the existence of Republika Srpska and that Republika Srpska has a Republika Srpska president who is elected in the direct elections, in fact to gain statehood. They all got together and this opposition DOS understood and realized that they had a much better negotiating position, that they had called on the opposition, so if they had to take it out on us that we are harder than they are, we would have smoothed out much better solutions in negotiations with the European Union. So, we come to the fact that a man who was a negotiator of the negotiations, a man who conducted the negotiations, signed a document together with the present representatives, Mr Djindjic, Labus, will not even come from us to get the jury for what he has already done. That's not correct. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-03-0.u19680	Mr Cedomir Jovanovic wants to vote on the proposal. First to vote on the proposal tabled by Mr Cedomir Jovanovic. We can't talk like this; is it by the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-03-0.u19681	The Honorable Chairman, the first call was made by you and you should say that this call is no longer valid. The congregation cannot declare itself, for the congregation did not declare itself even when you sent the invitation. President Kostunica is the president of the SRJ, not the president of the DSS. He speaks here, and he should speak and come to speak as president of the SRJ. You want to reverse the electoral will of the citizens, not to allow the one who was elected by the citizens to do so, to prohibit them from speaking in this House. I hope you're aware of your spirit of democracy and of parliamentaryism and of everything you admire and what you're trying to care about. This is unremembered in the history of parliamentaryism, that the president of the federal state is being banned and suggested that he be banned from speaking in parliament in one Member State. It is the opposite of both the spirit of legality and the will of the citizens and we, as the DSS, of course, will not participate in this. If this is how you want to mark the debate and make a decision on the future of the common state and thus open the door to the common state, this is how you start to tear down the agreement and bring down the common state , you should be honored and aware of what you're doing, and that history will probably know very well that it appreciates what you're doing at this time and that you are aware of the responsibilities, more precisely the responsibilities you've taken on yourself with one such suggestion and one such gesture. [[elevator in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-03-0.u19682	The president of the federal state has been called. He doesn't want to take part in the debate, wants to show up and give the final word. This is not a part of the debate, if we understand each other in parliamentaryism. [[Zagor in the O.R.]] I put to vote the proposal by MP Cedomir Jovanovic to vote on it. So we're voting on the proposal. [[Zagor in the O.R.]] (Employer Pelevic, from the post: Proposal. Wait a minute, Mr. Jovanovic was the first. Can you repeat your proposal? [[Zagor in the O.R.]] I am putting forward a proposal from the Soviet Parliament Group to postpone this session, for the reason that the SRJ President, Mr Vojislav Kostunica, did not come. I said a proposal from the Soviet Parliament group. I ask the Members of Parliament to declare this by voting. For 15, against 99, the abstention of four, did not vote 96, out of a total of 214 MPs. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic's proposal is to declare whether the National Assembly wants the SRJ president to address at the end, in the final word. That was the suggestion. I conclude the vote: for four, against 99, a abstentioned one, did not vote 110, out of a total of 214 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this proposal. She didn't accept, I'm sorry, she didn't accept this proposal. [[Zagor in the O.R.]] The DSS are leaving the session. ) We're going to the third item of the agenda, so please pay attention. (Employer Seselj, from the place, according to the Rules of Procedure.) ) The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-03-0.u19684	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since the session has finally come to a rather working atmosphere, before we hear the opening statement on this third item of the agenda, I insist that Article 131 be respected. Rules of Procedure. He's not respected in these advances. Article 131 says: The National Assembly brings: the law - this act is not the law, at least it does not say that the law; the budget - and this is not the budget; the development plan - and this is not the development plan, it is not, learn something; the spatial plan - this is not a spatial plan, and perhaps it is the spatial plan, it is the most like the spatial plan, in the right sense of the word; the final account - perhaps this is the final account for Yugoslavia; the Rules - this is not the rules of procedure; the declaration - it is not a declaration, because it has to be written on it; the resolution - it is not a resolution, because it does not say that there is a resolution; and, the authentic interpretation of acts already adopted - no act has been adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-03-0.u19685	You skipped a decision, it says - a decision.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-03-0.u19686	It doesn't say here that this is a decision.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-03-0.u19687	But the Assembly can make a decision.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-03-0.u19688	This is where you should clearly formulate what act is brought in. Is it a decision? It must stand - a decision to accept the basics, a resolution to accept the basics, a declaration of acceptance. If the final account - the final account; if the spatial plan - is a spatial plan; but one of these formulations must be contained. Without one of these formulations, no act can be passed, so I suggest you return this nicely to the proposing, the Serbian Government, to rephrase the title. Is Solana your proposal? When's your proposal? I don't know yet, I'm not in progress. I'm in the middle of a title, I've come to the title, and I'm contesting your title now, because it doesn't comply with the Rules of Procedure. You first get that title in line with the Rules of Procedure, and we'll see if there's anything to argue with, but this is clear to you by the end. One of these formulations must be in the title of the act you want to bring and which you have placed in the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-03-0.u19689	There is no breach of the Rules of Procedure under Rule 131, because the Assembly will decide on this act and, therefore, it is in accordance with Article 131. We'll make a decision. The word is made by MP Branislav Ivkovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-03-0.u19690	Ladies and gentlemen, since we have solved the problem with the President of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, who has estimated that he should not be here today with us and with the citizens of Serbia and to present his motives for leading five other citizens of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia in signing the starting grounds, in fact, for the disappearance of that state, I think it would be good to ask the President of the Assembly, under Article 83. The Rules of Procedure, why among the other persons, who has the right to call, did not call (as the document is called the initial basis for redecorating Serbia-Montenegro's relations) the president of the Republic of Serbia, who still exists today and must not only serve to be extradited to The Hague tribunal. He is still the president of the Republic of Serbia and no law passed by the assembly could be published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" if he did not sign it. Unfortunately, and these six citizens of the federal state, who are now ready to ask us to be their jury and to adopt what they have already signed as a subsequent mind, have not estimated that next to them should be the President of the Republic of Serbia and it is really not pleasant for the Republic of Montenegro to represent the President of the Republic and Prime Minister, and the Republic of Serbia represents only the Prime Minister and despite the still alive President of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, according to the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the Assembly declare itself to propose to the president of the Assembly to invite the President of the Republic of Serbia, at least now to engage in a debate on these starting bases, in which the fundamentals of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the Constitution of the Federal State are substantially changed.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-03-0.u19691	The president of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Milutinovic, was not called for the simple reason that he did not participate in the negotiations and is not a signator of the agreement. So the guests were called as signatories to the agreement. If you're not happy, I can put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-03-0.u19692	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, distinguished guests, I would just like to remind all of you and the president of the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mrs Micic, that, under Article 9. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the only man who can represent the Republic of Serbia, is the President of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-03-0.u19693	But his signature is not in the agreement, and that's why we didn't call him. We move to the 3rd point of the agenda: - The starting basis for the re-arrangement of Serbia and Montenegro's relations with Serbia and Montenegro, which was delivered to the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I remind you, according to Article 157(3) and Article 90 respectively. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. National MP Branislav Ivkovic, president of the SPS parliamentary group, suggested a longer debate, 20 hours. At yesterday's meeting, however, Mr. Ivkovic withdrew the proposal. Do you want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-03-0.u19694	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we, as the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, have proposed that the time of debate on this agenda point, which really affects the fundamental elements of statehood and the state in which we live, be extended from the usual five hours to 20 hours, which would mean, for example, that the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group would have the right to only 160 minutes to step up its 37 MPs. Only those who have been in this parliament since 1990, to remind me, that at a time when the Socialist Party of Serbia had a majority or coalition with most of the Rules of Procedure, for example, MPs of the Socialist Party of Serbia could speak 370 minutes today. Since this Rules of Procedure only gives us 44 minutes, we felt that time should be extended. It is true that, as president of the parliamentary group, when we reached all the agreements, I accepted the opinion of the majority, by consensus, that the time of the debate was 10 hours, which means, for example, that the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group would have only 88 minutes, instead of those total dictatorial or democratic 370 minutes, from the time of the SPS. However, I must say that part of the deal was that Mr. Kostunica, as the man who led the negotiating team that Mr. Djindjic and Labus were on, was sitting here with us, to listen and talk to us. Since this agreement has obviously been terminated and I am giving up my consent and we demand that you make your statement on our proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-03-0.u19695	I am putting forward a proposal by MP Branislav Ivkovic to extend the time for the debate to 20 hours. For 63, against 112, there are no abstentions, no six votes, a total of 181 MPs. I find this proposal not accepted. I would like to put the motion to hold the debate for 10 hours, and on the basis of the agreement with the heads of Parliament. For 136, against two, abstentions, were not voted 43, a total of 181 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal to extend the debate to 10 hours. I'm asking MP groups, if they haven't already done that, to hand over the lists of registered speakers. I ask Mr. Zoran Djindjic, Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, to address us.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-03-0.u19696	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's People's Parliament, here, the debate has begun quite violently, however, it is nothing unusual for our constitutional history. I don't think there's any need in this place to remind you that constitutional debates, constitutional crises and constitutional arguments follow us, in fact, throughout the 20th century. Already the first Yugoslav state, in 1918, was burdened with unresolved problems of federalism, which eventually generated political conflicts and tragedies, primarily tragedy for our people. AVNOJ constitutional solutions, which then ended with the 1974 Constitution, have contributed to the collapse of the country by general assessment. And finally, the 1992 Constitution, which regulates relations between Serbia and Montenegro, has long been invalid. It was brought to the same room, it was thought that it would definitely solve our constitutional problems, but only a few years after its adoption it was no longer applied to one of the two federal units. I have no intention of dealing with history, and I have no intention of explaining today's proposals, referring to the tradition of our constitutionality. What I want to draw attention to, both to our public and to you, is the fact that it's very difficult to find a stable kind of state union in our spaces and that we need to be realistic, that we need to understand that many solutions have failed because the intentions were good, because maybe those solutions were very far from political reality and that they weren't brought cold heads, but they were guided by certain ideals, or certain interests, which were not clearly announced. My concern here is to tell you very honestly and very openly all the interests behind this solution, and to consider and discuss possible alternatives. Most of the previous ventures to regulate our common state have been followed by great hopes and great expectations. This current debate in our public at least differs: it is followed before all uncertainty, doubtful, insufficient information and dissatisfaction. And, before I say anything more about the solution offered, I want to say what my basic position is, and that is that this solution of Serbia is not losing anything. On the contrary, I think Serbia is getting more of this solution than any of these constitutions, and especially those of 1974 and 1992, although it did not seem clear at first sight, that this solution is much more logical, given the political reality in which we are, than were previous solutions. I'll try to explain why it's not better and why it's not even more logical. Because when I say that it was better than the previous ones, I'm not saying that it's great, I'm not even saying that a whole series of problems and contradictions that will follow us over the next few years, but if we compare a solution, then we need to compare it not to what we want or what we can imagine as much better than what's a real alternative. Why don't we have a real Federation, why don't we have one good and logically arranged state whose constitutional order would withstand strict criteria of verification? The answer to this question leads us to a broader debate and in it, of course, I will say what I think is necessary. But before that, I would like to take a brief look at the fact that the public did not welcome this proposal and that, as some expected, did not relax when after a few years of uncertainty and, nevertheless, the anxiety of what would happen on the horizon arises at least some solution. I think the problem and the reason for that lies in very poor communication over this proposal. People in Serbia were not prepared for it in any way. On the contrary, they fell asleep in Yugoslavia, woke up in something that should be called Serbia-Montenegro; they fell asleep with the belief that the proposed solution would be something that could be called a Federation, and woke up with an announcement that it would be much closer to the confederation. Then, by the relevant participants in the search for this solution, it is not explained in detail how it happened, why it happened, what were alternatives, who played a crucial role here, to be one way or the other, and what were the advantages, and what were the shortcomings of this solution. I don't think this debate today can fill in that gap completely, which was to be filled out during the agreements itself. I want to make an apology on this occasion to the citizens of Serbia, and representatives of opposition parliamentary parties, that the others are denied the democratic right to be informed in due time, and that they are properly respected, given the political power they have, not that their arguments are inevitably accepted, but that they are aware of the reasons why their arguments cannot be accepted. I think it was logical that in the last phase of the negotiations, when the decisive changes in the concept and the platform, which on behalf of the DOS and in the name of the Montenegrin Coalition "Together for Yugoslavia" were one year already known to the public, that, before accepting these changes, all political factors would be detailed in the new state of affairs. When I say all political factors, then I think of DOS members, who were also not in a much better position than other Serbian citizens and representatives of the parliamentary opposition. I think it was necessary to inform the public first and in detail, and I think it should have been done especially after the agreement was made and I realize that it didn't happen. It will not contribute to the stability of the new state that its design plan has been treated as some confidential matter, which most citizens have not been reported during the creation of the plan. And finally, to say something quite personal, I don't think its international reputation will contribute to me finding out about these definitive political solutions from Mr. Solana, not from domestic negotiators. In doing so, I would like to say that Mr Solana's role as High Representative of the European Union was, in some sense, crucial to reaching a solution like this; that the position of Yugoslav and Serbian negotiators until the last moment was defined in the platform offered by our coalition and requested by some kind of federal arrangement, that the leadership of Montenegro did not agree to this until the last moment and that what was achieved was a compromise under pressure, and that the pressure was made primarily on negotiators from Montenegro. I think that the way that all of this was produced would largely justify the participants themselves in the negotiations, that they had detailed both the political and the other public. There wouldn't be any of these suspicions that are spreading here right now. And to say something quite concrete, I don't think this solution would have been any different if everything had gone the way it was supposed to run, I don't think that the essence of this new state arrangement would have been different if there had been a lot more participants involved, that the public was much more detailed about it. I think it would be democratic, I think it's the right of the public, but I don't think that would significantly affect the final appearance of this agreement. I want to say that I am ready to fully support what is agreed and that in the presentation that is now to be explained - which is why I think this solution is good for Serbia and which is why I think this solution is only currently realistic for Serbia-Montenegro. I'm going to try to divulge some illusions about the possibility that a much better solution was possible, and even the illusion that some earlier solution, which we had, was better than this right now, just because the title was marked by federalism, and it was actually an apparent or false federalism. As I said at the outset, the proposed constitutional arrangement framework of the Serbia-Montenegro community is a perfectly decent solution, but this does not mean that it cannot be addressed by very principled objections, which I suppose will follow in this debate and what we have heard in the professional public over the past month. However, the point is that no constitution is based solely on principles and constitutional theory, but on the constitution, in order to be true, to be alive, it must respect the political reality to which it applies. It's easy to write a good constitution. There would be no problem if all the countries in the world hired one expert team and wrote a good constitution. However, few countries in the world function as constitutional states, because the constitution should regulate political reality. Of course, not only that, it also represents a certain vision of where this society is moving, but if the constitution is too far from reality, if it norms something that is not there, if it rests on assumptions, which are not fulfilled or not yet fulfilled, it will remain a dead letter on paper. We better have a realistic constitutional framework that can regulate the reality in which we are, rather than have a set of beautiful ideas, principled views, good visions that will remain one of the links of unsuccessful constitutional history over the past 100 years. The largest number of complaints that are addressed, and the first one that is logical, is that we do not get an effective Federation through this constitutional charter, we do not get a real solid Federation, but we get a very loose alliance with a very few and, in addition, not quite strong joint institutions. Why is that and why the people who agreed to this and participated in this, why did they not insist on the true Federation, what makes sense? Well, if you can't make a true Federation, then let's just say we're separated. Then on one side of Serbia, on the other side of Montenegro. So either a pure federal solution or, if not possible, two independent states. I don't think this was possible at first, that the true Federation between Serbia and Montenegro is not possible at this time, and I think this other one would be very bad. I think Serbia-Montenegro's breakup would be very bad. I think the true Federation, for reasons I'm going to explain, no matter how desirable, it's not really possible. Why it is not possible, there are several reasons in our political reality, in a deeper sense of that word, not in our political moment today, but in our political tradition. Our political reality is marked by a specific understanding of federalism which, in fact, when you analyze it a little bit, makes it impossible for true federalism; then, it is marked by a specific type of political integration between Serbia and Montenegro, based on the fact that we do not have political integration through the parties, that we do not have parties that are significant in political life, which can get most of them, and they have their voters in both Serbia and Montenegro, but actually the political reality is already confederalized, so we only have the possibility of agreeing parties from one republic and another, and not pervading political space. Finally, we have a notorious fact that for five years between Serbia and Montenegro there is almost complete separation in both the economic and political systems. In short, we go in a row: in our places it's traditionally, and that means not only for the past ten years, but I've been thinking about the last almost 100 years, it means hidden confederalism. This is reflected in the vigorous insistence on the principle of parity and key sought, regardless of the size of a Member State, insistence on consensus as a means of decision, which means insisting on the right of veto in almost all things. If you look at all of our federal constitutions, seemingly federal, you'll see that they had this strong confederal line, which eventually ran around the head of the largest member because it was hampered in its behavior by the possibilities for less members of the veto to block political processes. It has been happening to Serbia in all the Federations that we have built in these areas. If you ask what that was about, what were the reasons that people's instructions from the early 20th century to the end of the 20th century, which is why some asked for it, and others accepted it -- the reason was always that the greater would not abuse their strength in relation to the smaller ones, in order to protect themselves less. Since the larger ones always wanted the community, they agreed to it and they said -- well, it's natural that the smaller ones have fear, that they have fear, and that they wouldn't be less afraid, let's give them justice, too, actually they manage and what things shouldn't be managed by nature, and then there were confederal solutions. In the end, it came down to the fact that they were greater victims of the community and that in the end they did not manage either themselves or most of their policies were governed by those smaller ones. A typical example is, of course, Yugoslavia after 1968 and constitutional amendments and finally the 1974 Constitution; and the staunch Federation, and that is a notorious fact, was at the expense of the largest, which means Serbia's damage. What are the basic assumptions for a real Federation? What would have to happen today so that we could rightly resent and say why we do not have a real federal constitution today and why no real federal constitution is proposed in this assembly that marks a solid union of Serbia-Montenegro, not a relatively loose community. Firstly, it is unforgivable as a condition that the Federation members are willing to educate larger citizens, as a matter of principle, one man -- one vote, with a larger Republic character as a control post. Without it, there's no federalism. This cannot be solved by concealing confederalism, through two larger ones that would both be keyed, as we were in 1992 or as we were in 1974. We can have one clear political persuasion of the entire space, the integration of the political community, only on the principle of one man -- one vote. Is it possible today, and could our comrades, our friends, our colleagues from Montenegro, any foreigners that belong at this time, accept? I'm responsible for saying no. I am responsibly telling you that there is no big difference between the government and the opposition in Montenegro. I don't blame them for it, I have an understanding of it, because it stems from a specific concept of federalism that we cultivate in these areas and which is not very similar to what is called federalism in political theory. Another condition would be the willingness of members to educate the executive authorities according to election results for larger citizens, not key. So, if the government were to be formed on the basis of the political will of citizens, through the elections for parties running across the territory and where no equality of the smaller or larger is then spoken of, because members of one political option that is active in the whole area would have the mandate to exercise power, it would not be to the benefit of either one or the other; it would simply be one state that has one government. Is this possible today between Serbia and Montenegro? I'm responsible for telling you that's not possible. We can demand it, but it's not possible. About this, in Montenegro, you would not achieve consent in the opposition parties either, so we take care of this reality. And, thirdly, what I mentioned several times, and what's the main attribute and reason for it, that's the presence of all major parties on the territory of the entire federal state, that's a condition that one political community would be integrated and that it would be federal. Why does it matter? This is important because only those people whose parties participate in the elections in the territories in which the government is being held would participate in that government. If someone exercises power in a territory where his party does not participate in the elections, he cannot be punished and rewarded for the quality of the exercise of power, he cannot be fully responsible for the exercise of power and its quality. Only parties running in that territory can be held accountable in the fullest sense of that word. This means that they want to do this power in a maximum good way because the bill for doing so will be won in the elections. If you're in charge of a part of one territory, and you're going to an election in part of another territory, if that territory where you're operating is ten times bigger than the one you're going to vote on, I'm afraid that's the quality of government we can hardly talk about. Since I am obliged to represent Serbia's interests, therefore, an apparent federalism that would consist in creating a key, parity, and ultimately to exercise power where 90 per cent of the territory per parity, which means that in Serbia power is being exercised on the basis of 8 per cent of the electoral body, I don't think that would be rational. I don't think that would be very good, and that's why I think that, until the conditions for real federalism are met, and for that Serbia is not an obstacle, we need to market another solution. Because of this, it was not an alternative between true federalism -- which most citizens want, which would be logical and what from Serbia's point of view is not controversial -- and other solutions, but an alternative was or was a choice between seemingly federalism -- as we had and for what reason it didn't work, whose Serbian victim over 60-70-80 years and which we shouldn't regret -- and a loose alliance, with the prospect of being deepened in the way that Mr. Labus and I are going to say something; and the third option -- is breaking up. However, some say, and I see that opinion in public opinion, there is also in the Serbian government, Mr Batic will expose it, with which I do not agree, some say - well, let's split up. Come on, if that's not possible, one pure solution, let's make another solution. I think we should make decisions according to the consequences they have for themselves, not just the principles on which these decisions are based. And in life, especially in real political life, we usually don't choose between good solutions; because where good solutions are given to choice, they don't call politicians to get involved, these people, groups, find a solution themselves, because it's not hard to choose between good alternatives. Usually in politics one chooses between alternatives or options that are not good and wisdom is to choose one that is least bad in its consequences. Then all over the world for such an alternative is said to be good. That's what people say because they have to live with that solution. Now that that's a real solution and it's less bad than the other ones, I don't think it's worth making life worse for yourself and saying it -- and it's bad. I think we should finally be one nation that's turned to positive emotions and positive energy, to study all the opportunities that are available to us. When we choose the one that we think is most appropriate to the given situation, then let's say it's good and we chose it, and not to say it -- it would be generally possible to imagine some better, and because of what is possible, we think that the one we chose is not good. Then eventually she becomes a burden and, finally, what would be possible to get out of reality, and it's always possible to pull something out, remains untapped. I think we've closed one dangerous crisis with this solution, which maybe we're not all aware of how dangerous it was. In fact, Montenegro has been polarising on this issue for a long time, in a dramatic way. We cannot be indifferent to the dangers of a divided society, which for several years has not been able to reach consensus and majority agreement on any issue, because all the issues of practical life ultimately come down to the dispute over what form of state you want. Over the long term, and I think we're already getting into what's called a longer term, because it's been going on for a few years, it's becoming a danger to the whole region. Then, there is no need to ignore the danger that would follow from a split Serbia-Montenegro into two independent states by Kosovo and Metohija status. I think at this point in time, any radical crossover of this country, at the wish of those who say -- or pure federalism or dissension, would lead us into a chain reaction of disintegration that would first affect our country. Finally, I think that by separating Serbia-Montenegro, we would send a signal to the world that our region is still a region that is disintegrating, that it is still a unstable region and that it is only a question of what the next step of disintegration will be: whether it will be in Macedonia, whether it will be in Bosnia, whether it will be in Serbia or elsewhere. I think that would definitely lose our chance to join modern Europe over the next 10 years. So this is a solution, which is ultimately in front of you, contentally. So it retains the common state, it's realistic, it's not resting on any illusions that our predecessors, whether our grandfathers or our fathers, had when they sought federalism in these areas. Finally, it opens up certain possibilities for the future. It is not nailed, it is not firmly defined and it depends largely on Serbia-Montenegro's political forces in the future. It does not shut down the possibility of a true Federation, provided that something changes in our political culture, in our understanding of the relationship of greater and smaller, in our understanding of the right greater to say that it is greater and that it does not apologize as much as it is greater and that its rights arising from this exercise, as well as the right to be protected in certain matters, but not to be present in all things, but only in those who are of vital interest to it as a member of the Federation. These things are included in this solution, they can be completed over a few years, if there is political will, of course they can be perfected towards greater integration. The problems this solution produces are, above all, that such a loose Federation is having a hard time working. It takes a lot of political will and energy to ensure its functioning. It's no secret, and that's what everyone who accepted this solution knew. Secondly, there is a harmonisation of relations between Serbia and Montenegro over the next three years, in order to bring the two systems closer together, primarily in the economic sphere, in line with the principles adopted here. It's not gonna be an easy job. It will be hard work that will certainly be followed by certain earthquakes. Thirdly, by putting this solution in a certain sense in the next three years, the disintegration forces have left room for maneuvering. This means that even in the future those who want to separate this common state into two will have the opportunity to work politically on that plan and be their political platform. Fourthly, which is very important, citizens can hardly be emotionally identified with a country that has such a complicated name, if it finally has that name, with a country that has problems that are its anthem, which are its symbols. For the survival of a country, the emotional attachment of citizens to the symbols of that state is very important. These are problems that should not be ignored, but the benefits are much greater than those problems. So, the advantages are: we've been stopping an uncontrollable process of decomposition that we've been attending for 12 years. Klic, the virus of this decomposition we have in our country today between Serbia and Montenegro, we have in our country between Kosovo and the rest of Serbia, we have in our country a debate on regionalism. We need to be aware that our country is at great risk of disintegration. Whoever's not aware of it, who discusses the Constitution as one scientific debate, I don't think he sees enough dangers coming from everyday life. We have to start deintegration somewhere, we have to put at least a temporary point. I think the most logical and simple thing is to put this point in Serbia-Montenegro's relations, because we will have a lot of problems at the next step with Kosovo, we will have full discussion of Serbia's regionalisation and in the solutions, this regionalisation will not be disintegrated, it will lead to Serbia's federalisation and repeat history that has followed us through the JJ century. These are all real dangers that we as political people have been entering for the next few years. So please -- let's do something that we can do today, not negotiate another year, two or three to make a much better solution than to say -- let's stop today what we can stop in terms of the decay of this space. So the first advantage that I think is, in my opinion, the most strategically clear is a clear signal that disintegration, at least temporarily, is stopped by one political will. The second is that we have within a given solution enough possibilities and room for maneuvering. And if there is political solidarity in Serbia-Montenegro for even more states, there are no obstacles to it being even more, but at this low level of community that we have found this pure relationship and no one can be angry and anyone can control their participation in it. This is the third advantage, that we as Serbia finally, for the first time perhaps after 100 years, can have an impact on the federal administration, that we know what we pay as Serbia, that we have budgetary control over what we pay, that it goes through this parliament and that the citizens of Serbia, who are taxpayers, through their MPs who are elected to control finance, can control all these finances, because they are realistically both in the former Yugoslavia and in the present Yugoslavia most of the collection of Serbian citizens. That's three advantages that I think are enough to recommend you vote for this proposal. Finally, what is the future of this common state? She's not guaranteed, she's, of course, uncertain, like the future of everything in this place. I think her future is great if we go towards European integration. I think European integration is the bridge that connects Serbia-Montenegro much more closely today than can be seen in the daily debate. Because if both Serbia and Montenegro are building their institutions by harmonising them with the European Union, which means a political system based on parliamentaryism, an independent judiciary and independent media, an economic system based on the market, on private property, on budgetary discipline, then we will on one hand harmonize between Serbia and Montenegro with the commitments we have made here, but on the other hand we will naturally harmonize to the same goal, and that is the goal of being members of the European Union. If that scenario comes true, we have a great future. If that scenario doesn't come true, then we have a bad future, whether as a Federation or as a confederate, either as an independent Serbia-Montenegro. If we stay on the margin and out of European integration, we have huge problems in the future. If we are in European integration, we can solve those problems that we have not been able to solve ourselves in the past. Finally, we as a people and as a country have always been the victims of each other’s disputes of world powers. Whenever something positive happened on our premises, whenever we planted a delicate plant of democracy, in 1902, 1903, 1920, at the end of the 1930s, the world forces always had their own disputes that ended in world wars and always those wars broke across our territories. That's where our people died, that's where our cities were destroyed, even though we didn't have any interests of our own. In fact, world policy, as a rule, had bad consequences for our region. Now, for the first time perhaps in the past hundred or 200 years, we have one clearly constructive approach of the European Union and European countries towards the Balkans and towards our part of the Balkans. For the first time, we also have a guarantee in one constitutional document or in a proposal for an agreement, where the European Union commits itself to supporting our integration and where the European Union cares about stopping disintegration. We think it's a big chance for Serbia-Montenegro. I'm not saying that someone is going to do this job for us and that someone is going to watch what we do every day and help us solve our disputes. No, we're on our own, which is fine, which should be. Serbia-Montenegro should, based on what has been achieved so far, find co-operation modes, improve its relations, and from citizens of Serbia-Montenegro and their political representatives will depend on whether and to what extent this will happen. So we have a chance, we have no guarantee, but we have a big chance. It's up to us to use our chance wisely. I am sure that you, too, are as legitimate and true representatives of the citizens of Serbia, that the citizens of Serbia are mature enough and responsible right now to take advantage of this historic opportunity. This agreement is one small step in that direction and therefore a large number of other steps should follow. Every time it starts with a small step. As modest as this small step may seem, I'm sure it leads in the right direction and towards the right goal. It's a democratic, European modern state. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-03-0.u19697	I thank Mr. Prime Minister. The words came from Justice and Local Self-Government Minister Mr. Vladan Batic. According to Article 89, read Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-03-0.u19698	Dear Madam President, Mr. Prime Minister, gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as minister of justice of the Republic of Serbia's government, when I voted against the decision on the starting grounds for redecorating Serbia-Montenegro's relations and I voted against it. I consider my moral obligation to explain my position before you, as elected representatives of the people. In the long years of fighting for Serbia's democratisation, we, who were then in the opposition, have criticised the so-called. "The Frog Constitution." Saying, among other things, that it was brought in in an illegal and illegal way. This and such "The Frog Constitution", which we have criticised for years, is a real concept of democracy in relation to this document that is today in front of the MPs of the republic's parliament. This is a typical example of full privatization of state policy. SRJ President Mr Vojislav Kostunica has not consulted anyone and none of the political representatives of the government participated in the creation of a political part of this document, the political principles of these starting bases. He probably wanted all the glory to belong to him. But I'm not sure there's any reason for any celebration. Except for what he may have realized his former password, every Yugoslavia in the muddy marica. I have checked whether the DOS, the Together for Yugoslavia Coalition, or possibly the Government of the Republic of Serbia have been consulted in the final phase of the negotiations. The answer is no one. Vojislav Kostunica has seized for himself the right to make such a decision. In a similar way, he hid a letter from both the federal government and the public from the European Union presidency on 20 March, which warns us that without any conditions we must co-operate with the UN tribunal, otherwise Serbia will be released from the European family of countries. Only when it was discovered was he yesterday answered something by the Spanish Foreign Minister, Mr. Pike. During talks with Djukanovic and Solana, SRJ president schedules a session of his main board, the party's main board and behind closed doors establish the principles of future state policy. Such an example of privatization and such a concept of the creation of a party state has not been recorded, even in our history, full of rulers and dictators. Even after the signing of the starting grounds, Vojislav Kostunica does not find it appropriate to call a coalition meeting that allowed him to become president of the SRJ, or the coalition "Together for Yugoslavia" and explain the reasons for such a radical change of concept. One might think that this is about a standard congregation proposal, which may be complemented or amended in the congregation discussion. Unfortunately, it's not like that. We were put before the final act. It is not good that Serbia-Montenegro did not come to the agreement, but was dictated by the European Union. SRJ President Mr. Kostunica stood up with the confederal platform of Milo Djukanovic on the canoes with Javier Solana Seosa. I don't know what Milo Djukanovic fascinated him with, but I do know that the solution offered at the start is neither good nor logical, and, as Valtazar Bogisic said a long time ago, what the coat of arms does not correct. It is proposed that the concept of a semi-state be tested, as a matter of principle, hold water until the masters leave. It's about full volunteerism and unorthodox political adventure. If Slobodan Jovanovic, who is often quoted by the president of the SRJ, saw the state he had prepared for us, would turn into a grave. What exactly is this about? DOS and the Together for Yugoslavia coalition had a common platform for reforming relations in the SRJ. The joint platform had two priorities: a functional Federation, and a unique economic space. It practically didn't make any sense. Instead of a functional Federation, we've got one broken confederation or loose union. What are the elements of such a state? The planned community isn't even called state. The basic legal act of such a community is neither the constitution nor the basic law, but the constitutional statutes, which also points to confederal elements. The Federal Assembly is not a two - housed congregation, which is a fundamental element of federalism, but a one - housed one. After three years, Member States may, in accordance with certain international standards, step out of the state community. The authorities of the common state are chosen on the principle of parity, which is also a confederal element. Decisions are made by consensus. The president is elected by the Parliament, by consensus again. The Supreme Defence Council decides by consensus. Less -- the more the relationship between political forces, it seems to me that the authorities of the common state are hardly ever going to make any decision. International representation also includes the parity of the rotating chair. Not even unique citizenship, no coat of arms, no flag, no anthem is foreseen. In the economic sphere, we practically have two completely independent states. This is even significantly below the European Union's standards, as European Union member states have common customs and common coins. The specific question is the deadlines, which are entered into these starting bases, deadlines and procedures. I claim that, given the relationship between political forces, these deadlines and these procedures will not and cannot be respected. The procedure for amending the Constitution, provided for by the Federal Constitution, has been completely ignored. So, we are about to have an octroissed, completely illegal constitution directed by the international community. This should be a basic legal act, this constitutional charter of the state, and it does not exist in practice either, nor has any such concept of state in theory so far offered. In light of all these circumstances, I considered it a violation of what we received from the citizens of Serbia, which was the starting and common basis of DOS and the coalition "Together for Yugoslavia", that I should vote against and set out my opinion. When we haven't already got one serious, credible, respectable, democratic, integrated, legal, European state, then we don't need any kind of a propagatory or any kind of national imitation. I used to caricate a little bit, so I was saying, we don't need this spell in the sky or on the ground. The proposed concept is a message to the Serbian state-run tradition, which began at the time of Stevan Nemanja and St. Sava, and continued nearly 200 years ago with the Sretenjski Constitution. This great start, as Stojan Novakovic said 100 years ago, needs to be done with dignity, finding strength and wisdom, as the work of our ancestors. We are not a people in diapers or puberty. We've had a lot of wild experiments done on us. In the first Yugoslavia, only Serbia directly, and Montenegro indirectly, introduced its state subjectivity. After 84 years, all former Yugoslavia's countries have been internationally recognised, only Serbia as a stepdaughter will have half a chair. Whoever allowed it, primarily the President of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, has disabled the affirmation of state and national subjectivity. At the beginning of the third millennium, we, as if we were some kind of European Kurds, still don't have our own state. Serbian citizens are denied the right to, in principle, so-called. People's sovereignty, as the most manifestation of every man's political will, every citizen, express their political will whether or not they want to live in what state they want to live in. It is the fundamental right of every man and no political elite should usurp that elemental right, especially since the political will of citizens is one variable category. All the republics of the former Yugoslavia decided in referendums that they do not want to live in a community with Serbia. Only Serbia without a referendum is trying to stay in a community that no longer exists. For decades, only Serbia, the platonic next idea of community, expected someone else to decide our fate. I think it's high time we took our fate and our future into our own hands, to be on our own, because on this idea of community everyone else in the former Yugoslavia has profited, only Serbia has suffered enormous damage. It's time to correct that historic mistake. The president of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia has repeatedly said there is no dilemma about the absolute political desire of Serbian citizens to live in the common state. We know he's traditionally uninformed, but he could have read the paper at least yesterday. Two public opinion polls have been published -- over 65% of Serbian citizens declare themselves to be independent Serbia, and if net last night, they could view the show "For and Against" and a sample of nearly 5,000 people, 4,100 pleaded for independent Serbia, and only 640 against. So, I believe, and this is my political position, that only one respectable, credible, serious, integrated state of Serbia, independent and independent, can be accepted very quickly as an equal member of the European Community of states. And then, when one such independent and independent Serbia is created, then she can make a serious alliance with the brothers in Montenegro or a serious community, a serious union, therefore, with one serious integration. Those were the reasons, which forced me to vote against and set out my opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-03-0.u19699	Thank you. I would now ask Mr. Miroljub Labus, vice president of the federal government, to give us the opening word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-03-0.u19700	Mrs. Micic, president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Prime Minister, honourable ministers, thank the National Assembly for inviting me to participate in this debate. It's a commitment for me, since I've been involved in negotiations on the adoption of this document. At the same time, it's a privilege for me to speak to you and tell you why I put my signature on. I played a double role, I was a representative of the federal government, and as a representative of the federal government, I was to negotiate with the position of the platform adopted by the DOS and the Coalition "Together for Yugoslavia". [[Applause]] At the same time, I am an economist, who has been invited to say that these principled political solutions can be implemented in practice and technically. There have been a lot of words here about the role of Solana and the European Union in the proposals. I can honestly tell you that there was no proposal from Mr. Solana. There were two platforms -- one platform of DOS and the Together for Yugoslavia Coalition, the second platform was the government of Montenegro. I, on the basis of these two platforms, made a 22-point matrix on March 13th, which we negotiated about, and that's the first written text in that form. There was therefore no other proposal, except for two domestic proposals -- one proposed by the DOS and the Together for Yugoslavia Coalition, and the other by the Montenegrin government. So it's the fact, like it or not, it's the fact. These two programs can be called very simply -- one program was to redefine the Federation, another program was for the union of two independent states. There were three disputed points, or three areas to be negotiated. First, whether there will be one or two chairs in the United Nations and all other international financial organisations. The second question is what will be the federal central institutions, whether they will be weak or strong, whether we will have a Federation or a confederate in political terms. And the third question, are we going to have one or two markets, are we going to have one or two customs, a dinar or a dinar and a euro? A compromise was made from the point of view of the international presentation, the principle of a chair was adopted. From the point of view of political institutions, basically, the principle of confederation was adopted, and that was the moment that was spoken of in public, and where I was very indisposed. Because when the principle of confederation is adopted, then there's no point in talking about the single market anymore. It was politically agreed between President Kostunica and President Djukanovic. However, I have to be very clear, this is why I do not criticise President Kostunica. At the time, I was in a bad mood, and today I realize that it was a reality. And, as Mr. Djindjic said today, it was our reality today, it is such that we have very loose relationships and that reality has to be respected. However, the moment we had the loose central institutions, it no longer made sense to talk about a single market. All we could achieve was a compromise, that we had two markets, with the obligation to harmonise them, and that in this harmonisation or harmonisation of the international community, or the European Union, they would help. So, if you want me to express myself very simply, so far the result is 1:1, one chair, but the confederacy. What happens to the third thought, it's still uncertain, it's up to us. That's why people are unhappy, because no one got what they wanted or only partly got what they wanted. But the final outcome depends on us. If we're sitting on the sidelines, criticizing or obstructing, there's no common ground, absolutely certain. If we try to implement this agreement in good faith, it will be a common state. Of course, it's easy to talk about principles, from the point of view of economic rationality, it's always better to have pure solutions: Federation or divergence. The compromise is the worst solution, but economists don't live on a desert island, live in society, watch political opportunities. What are the consequences? If we hadn't signed it, it would have been a break-up. And what would happen then -- Kosovo is separated, we have refugee rivers at that moment, other regions are opening up, family issues are opening up, what the Montenegrins are doing here, whether they stay or not, what about the property of the people in Montenegro, what the trade is going to be. The issue of Republika Srpska is raised. All these questions are coming up on the agenda. Is that better, is it better - not. What we've managed to achieve is that we've stopped the decomposition of the country. I want three questions to be very fair and to answer: are there guarantees that tomorrow there will be no breakdown of the country - there is no. It is up to us and you, from the Serbian Parliament. They don't exist. Is there a chance to maintain a common ground -- there is, and this is the last chance. The question is how, and that's what I want to talk about. The agreement has two tracks for implementation or two parallel processes -- one is the constitutional process, where they must be agreed on constitutionally by the political institution. In this role is this parliament, the Federal Parliament and the parliament of Montenegro; and you will establish a constitutional commission, which will put forward a proposal for a constitution and this constitution will first be adopted here. If it is not adopted here and in Montenegro, it will not produce a legal fact. On the other hand, two presidents, President Djukanovic and President Kostunica, have a moral and political responsibility to participate in this. Mr. Milutinovic can witness the signing. [[Zagor in the O.R.]] The second process is the process of harmonising or harmonising two markets. All three governments play a role there, and on the other hand, of course there is a role of the European Union. And here there are objections that the European Union, or foreigners, interfere in our affairs. But, gentlemen, when our ancestors came here, they came to the Balkans, and across the Balkans, Europe always crosses the Middle East. Whoever in history has moved from Europe to the Middle East has crossed over this territory; and there has always been interference, and the question is, is that mixing positive or is it on our hump? This time, the European Union played a positive role. Whether you accept it or not, you'll see, she played a positive role. And all the pressure was gone, there was no pressure on any concrete solution, there was pressure for us to make a deal. Unfortunately, that's our reality. If we hadn't been pushed aside, we'd never have come to an agreement, and the consequences would be tragic. The process of harmonisation is a process that has its phases, has its beginning and has its end. What we have today, not to be fooled, we already have two separate markets. And in the last five years, we've had two separate markets. There's nothing new going on. The first phase is to establish Serbia's economic sovereignty. In the process of separation, Montenegro has made its economic system, it has circled its economic system, it has circled its economic sovereignty. Now Serbia has to do it too. There's no doubt about it. What does that mean? A series of functions from a federal level will go to a republican level. In the area of customs finance, customs records will be transferred to the Serbian Ministry of Finance. Foreign trade regime, foreign trade agreements, that has to go over. Budget, taxes, debt service, accounting standards, it has to go to Serbia. The Federal Stock Reserve is moving to the Republic. All border inspections, veterinary, sanitary, phyto-sanitary, switch to Serbia. The National Bank of Yugoslavia becomes the National Bank of Serbia. Bank control and money is at the National Bank of Serbia. How is it going to be done - this congregation has a huge role to play in it. First, an omnibus law will be passed, where it will be said which laws are on a federal level that will be applied directly tomorrow in the Republic, because there is one set of good laws that we have passed in the Federal Assembly and that will be applied here in Serbia as well. But you're going to say what are the laws and what are the parts. And secondly, you will bring the constitution, where you will define the institutions. Following this phase of establishing Serbia's sovereignty, a phase of reconciliation comes with Montenegro. We need new laws. Laws that will have the same standards as those in Europe. It's not just a matter of whether we have the law or not, whether we respect the law or not, it's a question of what the law is. The new laws must be passed, the Republic authorities must implement these laws, the Republic authorities will co-operate in creating the same practice. The basic principle will be the principle of banning discrimination. Anything worth doing for businesses in Serbia will also be worth Montenegro's businesses here and all that is worth for Montenegrin companies there, will also be worth it for Serbian companies. It doesn't now, it will be. At the end of the process, a common market with uniform regulations will be created, with uniform practice and ultimately with a uniform monetary system. We should not fool ourselves, for a certain number of years when we become an associated member and then a member of the European Union, we must move on to the euro as a whole of the European Union. We will have common customs duties, as there are external customs duties in the European Union and there is no difference. Meanwhile, we will conclude an association stabilisation agreement with the European Union, a council consisting of ministers from the government of Serbia, Montenegro and the common state, as well as EU commissioners, will be formed together, the council will take care of harmonisation together. We here in the contract, i.e. at the initial basis, have one position that says: "Member States are responsible for the smooth functioning of the common market, including free movement of people, goods, services and capital". Today, right now, we are unable to accomplish this because it is our starting reality. Political opportunities did not allow it to be done today, but it will be done tomorrow. Today there is free movement of people and being, protection of property exists and will remain, free service, free movement of domestic goods exists, as well as free pursuit of activities. There are problems with financial activities, where there must be permits, which is the same practice for banks and insurance companies, and that state is overseeing; in the first step, both republican authorities will exercise control, and in the second step it will be the same practice, it will be the principle of reciprocity, and when it is authorised in one territory, it will have the right to carry out activities on another territory. And finally, the question of the duration of this deal. It's certainly three years short, but that's our reality. We are negotiating or negotiating a Stabilisation and Association Treaty with the European Union. So far, such two contracts have been concluded, Croatia and Macedonia have concluded those contracts. In this context, there is one way to comply with their rules, customs, practices under European Union rules. For Croatia, six years are scheduled, and for Macedonia 10. We think we'll get a five to six-year-old deadline, too. If we accept this within five to six years, we will be harmonized with the rules of the European Union. That means, in three years, we'll be halfway there, and Serbia-Montenegro will be able to say whether it's worth the trip or not, whether it's going to go alone or further together. My suggestion, we did take the first step, someone was satisfied with it, someone wasn't, and behind the first step followed the second step. The second step is the decisions of the congregations, both in Podgorica, and here in Belgrade. You can accept, you can refuse this agreement. I suggest you accept it. That is not what I initially admit openly, I thought we would do, but after a while I understand, as Prime Minister Djindjic says, that this is not bad for Serbia at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-03-0.u19701	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Federal Government. The word came from the Minister of Agriculture, Mr Dragan Vesenov.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-03-0.u19702	Mrs. Micic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, just a few words about this agreement that certainly comes before us at a particularly delicate historical and political moment. It may be necessary to explain, with more words, what was the political position or platform of us who participated in conjecturing the Serbian government's views in the negotiations to reconstitute Serbia's relations with Montenegro. There is no doubt in our political public that there is a part that represents a stronger federal approach and requires much greater joint functions. However, not in more detail, and I believe that there is no need for us to enter into historical constitutional relations and political relations in detail, but it is unfair to expect Serbia-Montenegro to reach an agreement on a greater number of joint functions than is possible at the moment. I even believe that Serbia could not agree to this because any strengthening or multiplying of the number of joint functions on the principles of the voting parity is essentially increasingly leading to Serbia's political inferiority. We are not, not only by size, the same country; nor by political importance, by economic importance, by the number of voters, we are not close to the country and in this sense we cannot allow the strengthening of federal functions, which in principle of parity should essentially introduce a right smaller to block Serbia's development. That: was one of our approaches. Two: of course we are for a number of functions and on the principle of parity, but that number of functions must then be as small or as small as not to interfere with the development of either country, especially Serbia. In that sense, it was our political and negotiating position. I believe that at this point, as much as we may be able to reason a lot of bitter words, to complain about the political quality of this agreement, it is essentially not bad for Serbia. At the same time, if we wanted to engage in the special political support of that force in Montenegro itself with which we are in the coalition alliance at the federal level, that is, the SNP, we cannot help but engage in a discussion with our own citizens, which we support political power, given the political quality it represents, ideology, the economic version of the future, etc. If we had supported independences in Montenegro, we would have practically been involved in the internal affairs of a country. We have taken the view that Serbia has no right and cannot interfere with Montenegro's internal relations, as well as other countries, and that this is the political quality that we should insist on. This agreement is valid until 2005. He essentially allows, we are ready to rely on these steps, to strengthen Serbia's state functions. We cannot, without not paying attention to Montenegro, as the vice-president of the federal government stressed, circled its economic system, politically it has not yet managed to leave the community, but it has circled its economic system. Our goal is to do the same. Mr Labus stressed certain elements of this: and our goal is to transfer all functions to the level of the Republic of Serbia and strengthen our own state by 2005 and around monetary policy, about customs policy, about border services. It was not wise to support the landscape, although it is always easy for adventurers. We enjoy a special economic and commercial privilege by the European Union by 2005 which, if nothing else, is of exceptional importance for our agriculture, because from this moment until the beginning of 2005, we have the right to export wheat without quotas, without customs duties. We have the right to export corn without quotas. We have a whole range of products to export without quotas, without charging customs duties or charging customs duties that are calculated on the basis of ad valorem 20% less. These are the great commercial advantages that give our weak agriculture encouragement and give it the opportunity to step up in those markets that we, meanwhile, lost in an unreasonable policy of the past regime. Finally, we keep this agreement in our political sphere and Cosmet. If we had represented the second time, the path of open separation, it would not only be about the stability of our relations with the European Union, but also about Serbia's own stability, as well as our ability to, by expanding or protecting our political interests in Cosmet, no matter how difficult it may be, at least in a stronger sphere of influence we keep this area. There are among us those who believe it would be good if we immediately declared Serbia's independence today. But not speaking of political implications in the wider region, those who represent this solution now need to explain then which version of Serbia they mean it and whether they are opening a political space to reconstitute relations in Serbia itself. The existing Serbia cannot be in line with the political ambitions of the healthiest forces in Vojvodina. As it is, if it were to remain this way by declaring independence, it would certainly have to raise the question of its future. Hence, from today's point of view, it is far better to take advantage of existing opportunities to remain under the existing political not umbrella, but a common, however gentle platform, in order to preserve political stability, economic development and commercial advantages. We'll be ready to wait as a state in 2005. Whatever 2005 is, we are ready: independence - Serbia will restore all its state functions by then. If not, we will have strong negotiating positions. I would like to point out to you that since 2005, very serious talks have started, step by step, about adapting our economic policy to those steps taken in the European Union. We do not care whether we participate in these negotiations and enter from a larger market perspective, the right to greater quotas, by insisting on larger subsidies in the framework of, say, common agrarian policies, or by going into these negotiations as a smaller country, as a smaller market and with fewer opportunities. Hence, the political moment, which is extremely serious, requires absolute thoughtfulness from us. I am convinced that this Serbia, presented in this assembly, will vote in favour of this agreement, because it is the first guarantee of our stability and development.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-03-0.u19703	Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? First came the MP Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-03-0.u19704	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the initiative to change the constitution is, in principle, a legal act. Any initiative can stand, both political parties, both state officials and ordinary citizens. However, the change itself must be done in advance of the constitution. The current constitution of the SRJ had certain falsifications in the way of adoption, but the constitution was subsequently acquired full legitimacy and legality. The constitution was sworn by Vojislav Kostunica, as president of the federal state and Miroljub Labus, as vice-president of the federal government. You swore to keep that constitution and to allow it to be changed only in the manner in which it was prescribed. Instead, you're destroying this constitution, you're destroying the state. This is an act of destruction of the state. You didn't call this a decision, no resolution, no declaration. You don't know what it is. The federal constitution prescribes, in terms of changing the tax-listed members, that the consent of the National Assemblys of Federal Units is also required. If you had made concrete amendments or comprehensive text and had said - based on the members of that and that Constitution of the SRJ, we would have submitted an initiative to adopt a new constitution, that would be legal, that would have been possible from a legal point of view, even desirable. Why not open the debate, then go to the Constitutional Commission of the Federal Assembly, and first discuss the Constitutional Commission, then the whole Constitution implements the procedure and gives the consent of the National Assemblys. But with this act, you step on it all if you have a simple majority for this here, because according to the Rules of Procedure, this is adopted by a simple majority. It only gives consent to individual members of the federal constitution that are changing and are taxed in the Constitution. That's five, six members. This is how you commit people who will work on constitutional amendments what attitude they must take. This is their frame outside I can't. Well, how can you pre-plan a constitutional act that requires a two-thirds majority by a single quasi-act for which a simple majority is sufficient? That can't, that's right. Of course, where there is no legal order, where Zoran Djindjic abolished the Constitutional Court, he doesn't have to do anything. Then why did you go to the congregation? Why do you embarrass yourself by going out to the National Assembly when you could have done it without the Assembly? This whole thing could've been done with automatic rifles. Then why did you go to parliament? What do you play by respecting the principles of the legal order, if you really don't respect them? What's with the acting? She has no purpose. Next, you're talking about a principle agreement. Whose agreement is this? Who is the constitutionally envisaged body for the conclusion of such possible agreements? There are certain state authorities that are responsible for the conclusion of international agreements, even alliances. It is known exactly who is doing this: the Foreign Ministry, the Federal Government, the Federal Assembly, the act of ratification. You're avoiding it, too. You even bypassed the president of the federal government because he personally does not match one of the participants -- Milo Djukanovic. You've done this asymmetrically. You know, I can agree with you that Milan Milutinovic became president by falsifying election results. But that's what Djukanovic did. There was no difference in the method of falsifying large differences. They forged both of them, or their parties. I never admitted it. You should remember how the SRS MPs reacted when Milan Milutinovic came to take the oath -- very violently. But I leave out what's most important to be told here. It's already an illegal procedure. They could meet Dick, Pera, Marco, Janko and agree their views. They could meet Kostunica, Labus, Djukanovic and who else was there, and Djindjic later said he was not at the beginning, did not know what it was about, so they later invited him. You could have met to agree your personal political views, even if you put it on paper, and that's all. You could not translate that into a document that would be declared legally by the National Assembly. You could've immediately formulated the text of a new constitution. Who authorized you to say that this country would not have a constitution in the future, but a constitutional charter. Is there even an act in Serbian tradition called the Constitutional Charter? He never existed. As far as I know, there is only in the Anglo-Saxon, or English constitutional tradition, but England has no constitution, never had a constitution in the right sense of words. It has a material sense of the constitution, which starts with the Magna Card and beyond. Why should I say better words, or rights? Nowhere, in no European country, it exists. When it comes to the Constitutional Charter, you don't know what it's about. If it's a constitution, why call it a charter now, why not a constitution if it's in our tradition. We've been developing this constitutional tradition for 200 years. What's the point of starting with something that doesn't suit us at all, which is not in the spirit of Serbian legal tradition? Secondly, what makes this the highest legal act, and what makes this a state union? What is a state union? Why didn't you try to explain that? State union, community of states. It doesn't say anything in itself. Is that an international organization? The definition of legal theory is quite clear here. Is this what an international organization is now being made for? To be an international organisation, Serbia-Montenegro must previously declare independence, and only then do this. You want to transform an already existing state into an non-state. Because what you're offering is not a state; something like this never existed in the world and nowhere. It can't exist. What do you want to accomplish with this? It's clear to everyone, the regime in Montenegro is openly separatist. The regime in Serbia is disguised as separatist. Both want S.R.J.'s disappearance. If Milo Djukanovic today declared Montenegro's secession, a civil war would likely break out in Montenegro. Both the European Union and America are aware of these dangers and want in a delayed way to ensure Montenegro's independence. For Serbia, it's another three years of great torture. The majority of Serbia-Montenegro's population are Serbs. What makes Serbs a federal state, let alone a confederal, let alone something that is not even confederal, if they are a nation. How could this work in practice? Not at all. Even if Solana came twice a week, just like that, and turned your hands. Do we need a country like that that can't exist without the tutoring of foreign forces to survive? (President: Time. I'll continue for the next ten minutes. No one wants a country like that. No one wants to. It's not a state in the right sense of words. Next, you keep talking about one chair in the UN. Let's discuss whether it's a hard chair, a soft chair, whether it's a sacred chair, what a chair it is. What does it matter? It doesn't matter if there's gonna be one chair or two chairs. If we don't have a real single state, then it doesn't matter what one chair is going to be in the UN. It's just a problem. Six months one sitting, six months the other; no personal continuity. There's a couple of policy options being represented in that chair, so somebody wants a hard chair, someone wants a soft chair, someone like that, someone like that. No one can coordinate that alive. Next, you're talking about positive discrimination here. Positive discrimination can be spoken of by ignorant politicians, and lawyers cannot. Every discrimination is both positive and negative at the same time. Whoever is discriminated against is negative for him, and whoever is privileged is positive for him. And apartheid was a positive discrimination for someone, for those who enjoyed that blackest policy apartheid, and they considered it positive, because the million, two, three exploited 20 million others. No discrimination can be positive. She's always negative, unacceptable. Why, then, discrimination against Montenegrins against Montenegrins, is 600,000 people of Montenegro really worth 10.5 million citizens of Serbia. Say this, that a Montenegrin citizen is worth 17 citizens of Serbia. I can never accept that. I can never accept that one human being is worth as much as 17 other human beings, regardless of nationality, regardless of religion. You speak here of the council of ministers and you list five ministers, but you do not enter jurisdiction. None of these ministers would have any jurisdiction, they'd just pretend to have those powers, not even in foreign affairs; especially if what you're predicting is realized as a possibility -- to rotate every six months. These state authorities, which would be called ministries and have formal powers, would not have realised any real jurisdiction. You're breaking up the army. If recruits from Serbia will serve in Serbia and recruits from Montenegro in Montenegro, then it is no longer a single army. Secondly, you're breaking the principle of command, which in no modern army can stand to have three men commanding at the same time. Under the current constitution, there is one commanding officer, which is the president, based on decisions of the Supreme Defence Council. One is decision, and the other is command. You're introducing a triple commander now. This couldn't last more than six months, a year, a year and a half. That's how it's done, so it can't last long here either. It's clear why we're making fun of each other. No one can command an army if three men command a consensus. I hope that Milan Milutinovic will not remain forever, perhaps Djindjic will keep him for another 15 years, because it suits him best as he is. I understand his political interest in holding Milan Milutinovic as his extended arm, but it can't last much longer. It is expected that three personalities will appear on these three functions: the federal president and prime minister at the same time -- as one, Serbia's president -- the second and Montenegro's president -- as third. There's no military command in any crisis situation. One says, "No, I'm not." I was joking. You don't know if there's a war. 15 years ago, I didn't believe there was a possible new war in the Balkans. It is not known in advance, war comes as a historical verse, when people least expect it, when they least want it, and when they fear it most, and find them regularly in the most unfavourable situation of war. There's never a war going on in moments of prosperity, blooming, etc., whenever it's the hardest time to endure it. Don't be so sure. Furthermore, this is about the court of Serbia-Montenegro, whose administrative function will be performed only in relation to the administrative act of the Council of Ministers' ministries, and nothing more. It will have, in addition, constitutional judicial functions and will deal with the uniformity of judicial practice. That's not enough jurisdiction for that court to exist at all. Next, you're talking about elections here, appointments to various functions and what's fundamental interest, of course. Let's see what Djukanovic's interest is in these three years. He can't have a Montenegrin army yet, he'll be financed by Serbia, and he'll be creating it in three years. Furthermore, he still cannot finance diplomatic representations in all major countries of the world. Serbia will finance them, and he will send his staff. Why? Serbia has already submitted a great sacrifice to the 1992 Constitution. At the heart of the principles of democracy, democracy, the principle of federalism has been accepted. Federalism and democracy are being ruled out in these cases. The principle of democracy is one man -- one voice, always, everywhere and in every place, and the principle of federalism brings something else. The compromise was made in the existence of two larger, larger citizens and a larger republic. In the Greater Republic, both federal units are equally represented in the upper home. A new compromise has also been made in the Council of Citizens - Montenegro has more MPs than is proportional to its population. She's 30, and she'd be 10 or 12, proportional to the population, maybe 15. There have been compromises, even excessive compromises, given that we are one people. You're throwing it under your feet now. You're now sharing something that should never be shared. The Serbian people's mother lives in Serbia, then Republika Srpska, then Montenegro, and Serbia's Krajina was more than Montenegro. Should such sacrifices be made because of local, regional owners in Podgorica? That sacrifice doesn't have to be made. I am not in favour of occupying Montenegro, but I am in favour of deciding whether Montenegro's population will decide whether the single state will be with Serbia or not, and not to be fooled anymore, to fool around, to come here to spoil, to act as ministers and to watch what anyone will kidnap. The entire political furniture from Podgorica required Serbia as a place to be kidnapped. This shows all the research into the functioning of the federal state, starting from the abduction of ambassadors to the conclusion of procurement transactions for various state authorities, including the military. We don't even need a Federation. We Serbian radicals for a unitary state, but we accept the existing state. We're not up for accepting something that's much worse than the Federation itself. We don't idealize the Federation, but this isn't even a Federation. Then why do we need this? Three years of torture, only three years of torture, and you can't even make a deal inside the DOS, let alone now that's going to work in this, which isn't even the state, nothing is. Without Solana, this can't work and that's the problem. Someone's actually imposing a quasi-state form that's going to keep insisting on foreign interference, on tutoring. This is a provision, this is a Western-force perspective, to help control our geopolitical space. If this is good, why doesn't Solana bring it into her country?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-03-0.u19705	I'm warning you, time's over.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-03-0.u19706	I'll be done right away. Why didn't you seek at least a Spanish solution; how did Spain resolve its internal relations, why didn't you ask in such a way as to resolve Serbia-Montenegro's relations? That would be much better. What you're not about to apply the relations that exist in the European Union, we don't even have that. The European Union is going towards the Federation, speedily, in a running step, and we are going towards breaking down the already existing Federation. You don't have to play with the country. We can persecute ourselves here about concrete political interests, but this is something that all of us need to be sacred. No generation has the right to sacrifice the state, to throw it under its feet, but so much indifference, we have extreme insecurities in political life, that there are more and more people who are able to throw the state. I'm not counting on your awareness of the fate of the Serbian people, of history. I'm counting on the power of the public, who I told again what was bothering me and saved my soul, if there's nothing else I can do.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-03-0.u19707	According to the Rules of Procedure, the authorised representative of the Assembly Group, MP Borislav Pelevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-03-0.u19708	The Honorable Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at yesterday's meeting of the presidents of the parliamentary clubs in this assembly, it is agreed that after the opening presentation of the signatories of this agreement, i.e. the basics, a pause should be made in order to hold consultations on this agreement within parliamentary groups. Please respect that for at least two reasons. The first reason is that this whole agreement is written on only three pages and three and a half rows, so the three and a half pages are incomplete, and this agreement needs to replace some constitution that already exists. That's the first reason. The second reason is that the representatives of the authorities, i.e. the signatories, have expressed completely diametric views on what has been happening and whose proposal has been accepted. The prime minister said he had learned from Mr. Javier Solana about the basics, and the Vice-President of the federal government, Mr. Labus, said there were two of our proposals and there was absolutely no proposal from Mr. Solana. That's the first one. Secondly, I'm calling for Article 82. Rules of Procedure on the work of the Assembly and I question the correctness of the electronic system. Namely, in the benches where the Democratic Party of Serbia, which came out neatly, according to the Rules of Procedure, had taken their cards, lighted at least two cards on the screen. Therefore, I ask you to check what this is about, because I am convinced that there will be a lot of voting problems.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-03-0.u19709	I'd like the technical service to check this card thing, which Mr. Pelevic pointed out. People's MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the DOS parliamentary group, spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-03-0.u19710	Mrs. Micic, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Republic and the Federal Government, I think we will agree that despite the various party positions, the JJ century has been the most devastating century for the society that we as politicians represent. This is not only because of the challenges Serbia was facing, but also because of the way it predicted and addressed the challenges. That's why it would be good to turn to the real facts today, to speak language, if necessary, numbers and letters, and to put all our emotions aside, because I think it would be the most qualitative change compared to everything that has marked our policy so far. When we talk about facts then today we are talking about the Federation of Serbia-Montenegro, which is completely dysfunctional and practically has not existed in the last five years. The Federation was the product of a one-party system, a product of political will by two practically single parties from 1992, a will that was overcome and which left behind a number of problems. Today we are talking about a Federation whose president is not recognised in a federal unit, a Federation whose executive authority has virtually no authority in any federal unit, a Federation whose legislative authority cannot pass, nor implement any law in its federal unit. We're talking about a Federation whose, say, National Bank doesn't create monetary policy in a federal unit, a Federation whose diplomacy is not a single federal unit. We're talking about something that doesn't exist and if it's necessary to say it clearly then we as politicians are obliged to do it without fear of consequences and without fear of that reality that isn't great, but it's not something that can't change. That is why this agreement is a step forward in this regard. I think it is clear that the agreement is actually the result of different political concepts that existed in both Serbia and Montenegro. We, as representatives of Serbian citizens, are obliged to talk about those positions that are binding for us, which are positions that protect the interests of Serbian citizens. However, this does not mean that the interests of Serbian citizens are protected exclusively by policymaking in Serbia's space, but also by preventing some crises that could be hampering in the reforms we want to implement. So, the first effects of what has been done through the signing of this agreement and what needs to be verified in the Republic of Parliament, in this very confident, are, in fact, preventing the crisis in the area of Montenegro, since already through the assembly debate, which marked this document in the Montenegrin parliament, it is clear that the positions are approaching until yesterday, almost uncompromising and extreme positions of the SNP and DPS. The second, most concrete result, which should be clearly seen and supported, is the maturation of the state of Serbia, a capable state, which can respond to the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, without that kind of argument that is demeaning, even for us MPs or those who deal with concrete daily executive affairs, which concerned the intelligence and jurisdiction of the SRJ, which were, as a rule, an insurmountable obstacle to everything we have done. How many hours did we spend in the debates, quoting the federal laws we ignored, passing republican laws that were more important and which had to be inevitably brought up with that kind of conflict? What is important today is that we have entered this agreement with clear positions, which we have insisted on respecting the Single Market, respecting unity in implementing foreign policy, respecting unity in the area of defence forces and, of course, respecting unity in the area of transport and telecommunications, that is, in those segments where unity appears as a binding category in the EU space. This agreement also partially achieves this goal and does not prevent the full realization of those positions in which we, like Serbia, insist. The circumstances under which the agreement was reached are controversial, they are the position of the political reality in which we live today. I don't think anyone is happy about this, but it is necessary to very clearly challenge any kind of policy, which would represent this agreement as some product of the EU's ultimatum or something imposed by the international community, past the will and interest of the citizens of Serbia or of the citizens of Montenegro. The EU's appearance, as the High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security, as some kind of mediator in this process of Serbia-Montenegro's dialogue, is the result of our incompetence, not the EU's intention to arbitration in such a process. What we are discussing today on this agreement can mean, practically, marginalising the role of the EU, if we as politicians are able to solve our own problems. Unless we're capable, there will be tutors on the side, no matter what we think, because the system of international security and international law has become superior to all the characteristics of the country in which we live today and the characteristics of any social community today in Europe and in the modern world. I think that is why it is necessary to address the facts that must be crucial for us in supporting this agreement. These are facts concerning his political and economic character. What is a guarantee to Serbia that it will realise the interest that we recognize today in these opening discussions, which primarily seeks to preserve Serbia-Montenegro's community on the basis of which modern Europe rests. The guarantee of the agreement, or guarantee of that interest, must be primarily a clear political role for those representatives of Serbia who will be in positions that will resolutely define and define the policies of the Serbia-Montenegro community. I therefore think that we have no reason to fear or distance ourselves from Montenegro's offer, but that Serbia must accept leadership in this regard and propose its candidate for the president of the Serbia-Montenegro community; propose a man who will co-ordinate the Council of Ministers and thus further guarantee the realisation of the policy in which we as parliament insist, and which we as parliament must also implement through our executive bodies. As far as the economic character of this agreement is concerned, he is not who we wanted him to be. It is clear that there is no single market, clearly there is no single coin, clearly there is no centralised monetary policy, but at the same time it is clear that through the Stabilisation and Association Programme with the EU something can be achieved, because it is practically impossible to seek integration within Europe, through disintegration in the territory in which we exist as Serbia-Montenegro. So that kind of fear is real, but I think it's minimalized through this kind of policy, which as a possibility opens up in this agreement. As for all those details, which could later cause some kind of conflict and dispute in Serbia-Montenegro's relations, I must remind you that in 1992 we introduced something that was considered positive discrimination, which was the product of existing fear, and which was also the product of those who in 1992 created the constitution and redefined the Serbia-Montenegro community could indicate the longevity of the solution. I remind you that the Federal Parliament operates through the Unity of the United Nations and the Greater Republic. No law questioning the sovereignty of Montenegro can be passed without the consensus of representatives, or MPs, in either House of the Federal Parliament. MPs from Serbia-Montenegro are arriving in the Greater Republic, on a delegate basis. The number of these MPs, 20 from one republic and the other, has been identified, and this has practically disabled the federal function of the Federal Parliament, which must inevitably be realistic and which must be implemented if we live in the Federation. What was done in 1992 is not a Federation and therefore logically everything that today describes this Federation as something that does not exist, except in documents that are self-experienced. Positive discrimination is not a degradation, it is, on the contrary, a concession to the representatives of Montenegro, with a clear conclusion that we, like Serbia, are not in a position in 1992, because the Republic Government and the Republic Parliament, by passing legislation from the state level to the republican level, are fully taking over those powers which define Serbia as sovereign territory, which is fully capable at all times to protect the interests of the society that exists in that area. So this is how a functioning community has to get our support. I think that all the opposite would actually be to question the interests of the citizens of Serbia, because it would be a conflict with the EU, then disintegration into the integration process that we are implementing, it is an obstacle to reforms that, certainly, are ten years late and that we have no reason to implement if we think to implement them in ten years, we already have to implement them immediately. So, a short and fast point of this kind of policy, taking responsibility in your own hands, with a desire to preserve the community, but not to be the product of bad compromises; rather, a realistic view of both the capacities and the other republics and the takeover of responsibility; and then, to achieve the kind of agreement that exists in the areas of Europe that we are seeking today. That's why we, as a member of the DOS, will support this document. We are aware in advance that many questions remain without an answer, but it is very good that these answers are not imposed, but we are left with a period of three years to think and decide with our own head and in the interest of the citizens we represent.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-03-0.u19711	I thank Mr. Jovanovic, who I have given my word to after reporting with Mr. Pelevic at the same time, and I respect Mr. Pelevic's remarks, and I think we should set a break. Also, I got a copy of the electronic system. According to the electronic system, there is indeed an MP from the DSS who has been recorded as present and is not here in the O.R. That's second row left, number one. I want to see with the Service what it's all about. I'm setting a break to 15.00 hours. [[After break - 15.40.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen, please insert your identification cards into the MPs' units to determine if we have a quorum and if we can continue our work. I'm giving a 15-minute break, since we don't have a quorum, probably in the meantime, the Health Committee will be completed, and I urge the presidents of the parliamentary groups to come to my office.
