ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-05-0.u23987	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the First Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, today's session is attended by 228 MPs. To determine the quorum for work, please Members of Parliament to insert your identification cards into the MPs' units. I find that when the quorum was determined, 161 MPs were present. So we have a quorum. I inform you that they have announced the absence of the following MPs: Milos Lučić, Petar Misic and Jon Cismash - in the morning. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. Also, according to members 83 and 84. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that I invited representatives of the Centre for Free Elections and Democracy, the National Movement "Resist", the National Democratic Institute, the Association of University Professors and Teachers of Serbia - the Section of "Colubar" and USAID to this session. I welcome the guests present. In accordance with Article 80(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I convened the First Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002 within a short period of time than that set out in Article 80(1). The Rules of Procedure, due to the need to call elections for the President of the Republic, following the failure of the second round of voting and the repetition of the entire electoral procedure, which should precede the adoption of the law on amendments and additions to the Law on the election of the President of the Republic. I would like to inform you that there has been a change in the name of the Democratic Opposition of Serbia parliamentary group in the National Assembly, so that it now numbers 95 members and is called the DOS-Reform of Serbia. The parliamentary group president's duty will continue to be carried out by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, while Deputy President Sinisa Mitrovic will serve as MP. I would like to inform you that in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, a new parliamentary group called DOS - the Social Democratic Party, consisting of 13 MPs, has been educated. The president of this parliamentary group has been appointed MP Natasa Milojevic and MP Vlatko Sekulovic for her deputy. You were presented the minutes of the 5th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002, held on 9, 10, 11, 15, 16, 17 and 18 July 2002. As more than 126 MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from the previous session. I would like to inform you that the review in the Management Board's work department has established that none of the Members of Parliament has delivered such a written statement of objection to the minutes of the previous session. I am voting on the minutes of the fifth extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002, held on 9, 10, 11, 15, 16, 17 and 18 July 2002. For 108, no one, abstentioned one, voted 89, a total of 198 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the fifth extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before setting out the agenda for the session, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we need to decide on proposals for putting on the agenda acts by emergency procedure. (Employer Seselj from the post: according to the Rules of Procedure. ) Here you are, according to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-05-0.u23988	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have to point out the violation of the four provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, so I suggest that I present all four advertisings immediately, given that the Assembly is now not being declared, but rather the committee of directors. That's what the new Rules of Procedure is all about. First of all, I would like to inform you that today we have been prevented from entering the Hall of the National Assembly of 19 MPs of the SRS. They were sentenced in May of the month to leave the National Assembly session. Two years old looks good, Milka says. In accordance with Article 108. The Rules of Procedure may refer to the 20 working days of the National Assembly meeting. Not only has the 20 days passed, but the whole session has passed. There's no punishment to be transferred from one session to another. Meanwhile, there was an extraordinary session. Anti-business MPs have been prevented from participating in today's session. It's one violation of the Rules of Procedure. Second violation of the Rules of Procedure. The SRS submitted a proposal on 23 April 2000 for a no-confidence vote to the interior minister and Deputy Prime Minister Dusan Mihajlovic, together with the proposal on 13 September 2001 and 26 February 2002. The proposal and two additions have been multiplied and, delivered to the MPs in good time. Until today, this item has not been put on the agenda, although it must have been no later than 15 days after the proposal was submitted. Then, we tabled a motion to vote non-refoulement of Minister of Education and Sports Gashi Knezevic on 30 May 2001 and to supplement the proposal on 14 February 2002. Until today, this item has not been put on the agenda, even though it had to be put on the agenda within 15 days. Then, on 6 September 2002, we submitted a motion for a vote of no confidence to the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia Nebojsa Covic. The proposal has been multiplied and timely delivered to all MPs. It brings up about 300 typed pages. It had to be put on the agenda within 15 days. On 21 May 2002, we submitted a motion for a vote of no confidence to the government of the Republic of Serbia. The proposal has not yet been included in the agenda, although it had to be done within 15 days. Third violation of the Rules of Procedure. We filed an emergency procedure on 11 October 2002 for a proposal to adopt a declaration of peace in the Middle East and prevent possible aggression on Iraq. The proposal is only today distributed to the MPs and is not included in the agenda, although it has been submitted by emergency procedure. The fourth violation of the Rules of Procedure - one item of the agenda is scheduled for today's session. It's in the proposal. It might add up, but I guess that point stays. We have submitted amendments as a parliamentary group of the SRS, namely our MPs, to the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the election of the President of the Republic. In accordance with Article 143. The Rules of Procedure, the legislator, the committee responsible and the Government are obliged to consider before the National Assembly meetings, so before this session that has already begun, amendments submitted to the bill and to inform the National Assembly of which amendments are proposed to be accepted by the National Assembly and for which they are rejected. We have not received any report on the fate of the amendments of the SRS MPs on this law. Our amendments haven't been multiplied yet. They may be multiplied, but they are not divided by the MPs. To be interesting, we have received a report from the competent assembly committee on his position on DSS amendments, although we have not seen these amendments yet, and they have not been shared with the MPs. So, all these violations of the Rules of Procedure I tried to group into four basic groups. I don't think such a flagrant violation of the Rules of Procedure can be sustainable in the Serbian parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-05-0.u23989	Since I am the President of the Assembly, I am obliged to give you my reasons for your remarks on the violation of the Rules of Procedure. For the first comment - 19 SRS MPs have yet another day of banning participation in the work of the National Assembly. He'll be here the next day. Regulation (EU) No 1086/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1/2003 as regards the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1/2003 The second question, to put on the agenda a proposal on the resolution of Deputy Prime Minister Dusan Mihajlovic, Minister of Education Gaša Knezevic and Deputy Prime Minister Nebojska Covic; they are not prepared in accordance with Article 79, i.e. they do not comply with the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure. When you make those proposals, they'll be put on the agenda. As for your third question, on the proposal for a declaration of peace in the Middle East and preventing possible aggression against Iraq, first of all, I think it is the jurisdiction of the Federal Assembly and that you should have submitted such a proposal to the Federal Assembly, but I will put it to the vote and the MPs will declare whether this proposal will be discussed in the Assembly. As for your fourth objection, it does not comply with Article 159. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which says, "If the committees in charge do not submit a report within the time limit, the draft law can be reviewed in the National Assembly and without the report of the Committee," and "If the Government fails to give an opinion on the draft law within a specified time limit, the bill will also be considered without the Government's opinion". We're moving on to review by emergency procedure. A group of 77 MPs from the DOS-Reform Group of Serbia proposed that the draft amending and supplementing Law on the election of the President of the Republic, which they submitted to the National Assembly on 2 November 2002, be put on the agenda. I would like to put a vote on the proposal by a group of 77 MPs of the DOS-Reform Serbian MPs to put the draft amending and supplementing law on the election of the President of the Republic on the agenda. For 157 against 45, the abstentions were not voted five out of 207 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. National MP Lazar Marjanski suggested that the draft law supplementing the Water Law, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 26 April 2002, should be put on the agenda. I would like to put the motion of MP Lazar Marjanski on the agenda of the draft law supplementing the Water Act. For 36, against 152, a abstentioned one, was not voted 18, out of a total of 207 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic suggested that the draft law on the ban on the trafficking of cigarettes produced by the Rovinj tobacco plant on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 17 May 2002, be put on the agenda. I am voting on the proposal of Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic. For 30, against 102, four abstentions, did not vote 73, out of 209 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law on the granting of counterguarantee to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia to pay off obligations under the International Development Association for the purpose of financial support for the structural adjustment of the Republic of Serbia's economy, which submitted to the National Assembly on 3 June 2002. I am voting on the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. For 30, against 94, abstention 61, did not vote 27, out of a total of 212 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Vojislav Seselj suggested putting on the agenda the proposal for a declaration of peace in the Middle East and preventing possible aggression on Iraq, which submitted to the National Assembly on 11 October 2002. I am voting on the proposal of MP Vojislav Seselj. For 30, against 153, two abstentions, not 27, out of 212 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dejan Mihajlov proposed that the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the election of the President of the Republic, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 24 October 2002, be put on the agenda. I'm putting on a vote by MP dean mihail's proposal. For 55, against 137, three abstentions, were not voted 18, out of a total of 213 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dejan Mihajlov proposed that the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 24 October 2002, be put on the agenda. I'm voting on this proposal from MP Dean Michael. For 55, against 142, two abstentions, 14 of the 213 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Since we have come to the conclusion of all the proposals for an emergency procedure, I would like to ask the Members of Parliament to make a statement on the agenda of the session in general. I'm putting on a vote on the draft agenda in general. For 162 against 44, the abstentions were not voted seven, out of a total of 213 MPs. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Election of Presidents of the Republic of Honor and gentlemen, before we begin to discuss this item of the agenda, I would like to apologize to you for the delay that has taken place following the work of the Committee and the political consultations and I propose that we continue our work without a break. I'm putting a motion to vote. I conclude the vote and find that 110 out of the 211 MPs voted for it. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal to work without a break. You have received a bill submitted by 77 MPs, the DOS parliamentary group - Serbia's Reform. You have received amendments submitted by Bojana Alexic, Vladimir Dobrosavljevic, Đorđe Mamula and Srdjan Petrovic; Gordana Pop-Lazić, Tomislav Nikolic, Aleksandar Vukić, Joca Arsic, Rajko Baralić, Branko Ružić, Dragan Todorovic, Jovan Todorovic, Petar Petrovic, Dragan Marković, Adam Urošević and Milos Lukić. Amendments to be submitted to the Rules of Procedure until the opening of a principled search will be sent to you during the session. You received a report from the Legislative Committee. You received a report from the Justice and Administration Committee, with an amendment. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, is five hours in principle, and it is allocated to a proportion of Members of the Parliament. I ask the Members of Parliament to deliver a list of registered speakers on this agenda item. Since the Government of the Republic of Serbia has not delivered an opinion on the examination of the draft law, I propose that the National Assembly, acting in accordance with Article 159(3) of the Treaty, be heard. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a review of the bill, shall be carried out without the opinion of the Government. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 91, against 38, a abstentioned one, did not vote 76, out of 206 MPs. I find that the National Custodial has not accepted the proposal to discuss the proposal without the government's opinion. (Vojislav Seselj, from the post: Pause until the government's opinion arrives. I'm canceling this vote. We shouldn't have voted at all, there was a mistake, in accordance with Rule 159, you open the Rules of Procedure, it says, that's what I read to you earlier: "If the Government doesn't give an opinion on the bill within a specified time limit, the bill will also be considered without the Government's opinion." Therefore, there is a provision in the Rules of Procedure, we have reports of the Legislative and Administrative Committee, to be delivered to you by the time we reach the debate in particular. Therefore, I annulled the vote. In accordance with Article 136(1) of the Treaty, ... (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, this is Article 159(3). Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-05-0.u23990	Ladies and gentlemen, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the President of the National Assembly, has no right to annul the vote. The assembly voted and made a decision. The decision can only be changed by the Assembly. The president of the National Assembly cannot, after making a decision, cancel the vote. If you think he can, you vote that he can, it wouldn't be the first time. But, according to the Rules of Procedure, no one has the right to annul the National Assembly's decision, only the National Assembly has the right to change its decision.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-05-0.u23991	Voting may be annulled if the Rules of Procedure in Article 159(3) is injured. Therefore, we will work on Rule 159 of Section 3, which clearly and unequivocally says that it can be done without the government's report. There's been a violation of the Rules of Procedure... (Lowers from the bench: Let the Administrative Committee say so.) ) All right, we're gonna call the Management Board to find out. (Employee Vojislav Seselj advertises a new violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-05-0.u23992	According to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the President of the National Assembly cannot determine the violation of the Rules of Procedure, but rather the Administrative Committee. First, the Administrative Board should conclude that this vote has damaged the Rules of Procedure, and it is not injured, and that is not relevant, it is important that without the decision of the Administrative Board you literally cannot do anything else now. Call a three-minute break to meet the Administrative Board. Let him take his stand on whether or not the Rules of Procedure have been injured, and there is nothing to find that the Rules of Procedure has been really injured, because the Assembly has freely declared whether it will work without the Government's position or not. You can't say for yourself that the injured Rules of Procedure have been decided by a vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-05-0.u23993	I would like to put to the vote the motion of MP Vojislav Seselj to decide that the Administrative Committee will decide on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. (Glass: Can't vote on it; there's no voting...) ) It also states in the Rules of Procedure that it can be done without a government report in Article 159. There's been a breach of the Rules of Procedure by putting it to the vote at all. I'm setting a break of 10 minutes and I'm asking the Administrative Board to decide on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. [[After break 14,15]] Dear ladies and gentlemen, please continue to work, determine if we have a quorum. I'm guessing we have a quorum. The Management Board has given an opinion and it will be given to you. The Management Board is of the opinion that by voting on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the election of the President of the Republic, the provision of Article 159(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union has been violated. The Rules of Procedure and that the decision does not produce a legal fact. The Committee is of the opinion that the National Assembly should continue to work on the first item of the agenda in accordance with the provision of that member of the Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 136(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a principle search on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Selection of the President of the Republic. Does the proposing representative, MP Cedomir Jovanovic, want a word? No, I don't. ) There is a word from MP Dragan Markovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-05-0.u23995	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising three members of the Rules of Procedure - 81, 112 and 159. The beginning of Parliament's work is at 10.00 hours. We started today at 13.30 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, you from DOS and you from the DSS had three and a half months to agree on how to share what little remains in the Serbian government, not to bother Serbian citizens today. And another reason we were late and this session didn't start at 10.00 hours is that 305 MPs were in front of this room, because people didn't know who had the right to enter and who didn't. Well, I guess some red stamps on the back, hitting the card, so you know who can get into the O.R. and who can't. The Serbian Unity Party believes that more vital issues after three and a half months of work were to be discussed today at this session. This is a circus that happens between the ruling DOS coalition and the DSS, in the election campaign, ladies and gentlemen. And Vojislav Kostunica had the slogan "Knows Serbia", but Serbia only found out today that Vojislav Kostunica knew about everything that was done in Serbia, ladies and gentlemen. The Serbian Unity Party believes emergency elections should be discussed at all levels.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-05-0.u23996	Mr. Markovic, I warn you, you've been given a word for the injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-05-0.u23997	I have a proposal. I'm explaining the proposal. Now that you've reminded me, I need to read one sentence, so I can explain the proposal. A joint statement has been made, and I will read only one sentence: "DSS and DOS will support the adoption of system laws, which stem from the electoral... "
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-05-0.u23998	Mr. Markovic, for the second time, I'm warning you that you've been given a word based on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. You didn't get the word for the proposal, but for the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-05-0.u23999	Well, I'm right... "the adoption of system laws, which stem from DOS and DSS election programmes, with active participation in their proposal, preparation and assembly debate." It means, like so far, that it will happen that DOS and DSS make decisions in this room. All these decisions were harmful to Serbian citizens. The SJJ will leave this session because it believes that this agenda item does not matter to Serbian citizens. And what is important is that in the last elections, Mr Vojislav Kostunica received two million votes, as it was a referendum against the Serbian government, as it happened on October 5th, which the DOS received as many votes as it was because it was a referendum against Slobodan Milosevic. We hope that in the next snap elections at all levels, which are necessary, DOS will be the opposition, headed by Vojislav Kostunica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-05-0.u24000	Mr. Markovic, since, despite two warnings that you stick to the basis by which you received your word, which is a violation of the Rules of Procedure, you did not follow it, I give you notice on the basis of Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj has the word, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-05-0.u24001	I must confess, Mrs Micic, that you have brought me into doubt earlier about your statement that our initiatives for the replacement of the Minister of Interior, Minister of Sport and Education and Deputy Prime Minister Nebojja Covic have been returned because they are not in accordance with the law and the Rules of Procedure, i.e. they are not arranged or orderly, as you have said. At the moment I thought, maybe you really brought it back, so I wasn't informed, maybe somewhere in the office, maybe there's this act somewhere. Now in this break, I have checked and established that you have never issued any act to return these initiatives for the replacement of individual ministers and to replace the Government because they are not in accordance with the law and the Rules of Procedure. After all, you have multiplied all these initiatives for the shift of ministers, and you would not have multiplied them if you had established that they were not in accordance with the law and the Rules of Procedure, but would have returned immediately. Since you have found that this is all in accordance with the law and the Rules of Procedure, you have multiplied them and delivered them to the messengers. There is absolutely no act in the Protocol of the National Assembly, nor in the departments, nor in the parliamentary groups, nor in your cabinet, which you have established that our initiatives are not in line with the Rules of Procedure and the Law and are therefore not included in the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-05-0.u24002	Mr. Seselj, I don't know where you got the information that I should have even sent you an act. What I did once was just want to give you some legal advice, let you know for the next time. According to Article 79, the draft agenda of the National Assembly may include only those of the acts prepared in the scale with the Constitution and this Rules of Procedure. According to my assessment, your proposals are not in line with this Rules of Procedure, nor with the Constitution, and for that reason I did not put them on the agenda. We continue to work on the 1st point of the agenda. In accordance with Article 136(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Does MP Cedomir Jovanovic want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-05-0.u24003	Ms. Micic, the Honored Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think we are obliged to try, with a responsible and reasoned debate, to amend and supplement the Law on the election of the President of the Republic to remove all political and legal obstacles that parliament can remove, so that our constitutional and - through interpretation, although not clear - the legal obligation in the re-election process, is fulfilled in the Constitution of a defined deadline, so until 5 January of next year. Given this proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the election of the President of the Republic, which the parliamentary group of the Democratic opposition of Serbia has proposed to the Republic's parliament, I am obliged to answer two logical questions. The first is why the parliamentary group of the Democratic opposition of Serbia has not earlier proposed amendments and additions to the Law on the election of the President of the Republic. The issue was also raised by political parties running for president in the failed election cycle; the issue was present in the public and I think it would be irresponsible to bypass the answer to such a topic through this debate. The second logical question is what are the changes that are introduced into the existing law, to what extent they are in line with the Constitution, to what extent they bring us closer to international conventions, which as politicians, parties and parliament are absolutely obliged to respect. So why did the Democratic opposition of Serbia, or our parliamentary group, not propose amendments and additions to the Law on the election of the President of the Republic before it became clear that the problems that are systemic, which are part of the existing law, are indecisive and that they have certainly partly produced the political situation that we are in today and we are trying to solve. Serbia's democratic opposition respected two principles. The first principle was that the election year could not be amended by electoral law. As an opposition, we have fiercely criticised any amendment to the electoral law that preceded the vote. The second principle, which we also respected and about which I want to speak openly, is that none of those who ran before the election was called, who spoke openly about this kind of ambition, have proposed amendments and additions to the Law on the election of the President of the Republic. In view of these two characteristics and the obligation to elect the President of the Republic in the Constitution set deadlines, the elections were called by the President of Parliament's decision and on the basis of the consultations carried out under our coalition. The outcomes of the presidential elections are clear and there are clear circumstances that have actually led to the election of the President of the Republic. They are political and these political circumstances we cannot change the amendments and additions to the law, but there are certain legal norms that can be fixed, so that the obstacle is lower and that presidential candidates, who run and enter the election race, can, with the support of the voters, overcome the law as defined by the obstacle. That is why, by amending and supplementing the Law on the election of the President of the Republic, we have provided for several radical changes which, of course, are completely subject to criticism. This criticism should be argued and we had in mind arguments that spoke about and arguments that spoke against such a kind of initiative. So the most serious obstacle and the one that we have partially removed is the question of censorship and the 50% voter criteria that go to the election in the second election round, if we want the President of the Republic to be elected. The second major change further specifies and regulates the election process itself more carefully through the emphasis on the new role of the municipal electoral commission, i.e. the election commission of the local self-government unit, which is the norm established by the Law on Elections in the local self-government, which removes all the doubts that remain in the domain of doubt, which were part of the political campaign, rather than criticising the very work of the Republic Election Commission and of the subordinate election committees, i.e. working groups. I will remind you of that obligation of the Republic Election Commission to form an ad hoc task force, i.e. working bodies, which would then be the inter-stage between the electoral committee on the one hand and the Republic Election Commission on the other. This arbitraryness is not good and we have so eliminated by the precise obligation that this kind of work is in future carried out by the municipal electoral commission, i.e. the election commission of the local self-government unit formed by the municipality and in whose composition are both representatives of the permanent, or elected representation by the local parliament, as well as representatives of the presidential candidates participating in the election race. So, the same principle as at the level of the Republic Election Commission, and this is important precisely because of the work that the municipal electoral commission is doing. The third level of correction is a correction that brought us closer to the standards of the international community. These are corrections that define more carefully the new role of the Republic Election Commission and affirm the work of the Republic Bureau of Statistics, i.e. the competent Republic statistical authority, which will provide the necessary information for public information during the election day and monitor the electoral censorship itself. So, constitutional categories are the ones that have partially restricted our political will in that domain. We decided to move the censorship from the second round to the first round. The fact that as a state we had an electoral system that knew and respected the census norm in the second election round is exeplanatory and there is no such example in the blue democracies, but therefore there are many examples in modern democracies in which there is a 50% censorship in the first round. It's a big step forward. He, according to some analysts and critics we face, but also initiatives that are present through amendments submitted to this bill, is not enough. However, we must take care of a few facts. First of all, the fact that the status of the President of the Republic is partly defined by a law laying down the procedure for his election and fully defined by the Constitution. We have a president who's having a hard time choosing today, but we have a president who's practically impossible to relocate, a president who has great authority and one who wants that kind of privilege must be able to meet that kind of norm that's currently defined by our draft law, a 50% censorship in the first election round. It is true that there is not much logic to highlight censorship in the second election round, and we have accepted such a thing. I think it is the kind of political support that is necessary for the elimination of the legislative obstacle in the re-election process, in order for the elections and for Serbia to get the president of the Republic within constitutional time limits. As for the role of the municipal electoral commission, it is very important and I think that when we analyse everything that has been said in the election campaign, there is some basis for criticism, because we have harshly applied the existing Law on the Selection of the President of the Republic, that is, the Law on the Selection of Members of the People's Parliaments, in fact, made it possible to make that arbitrary today, but any kind of arbitraryness in such delicate jobs is not good and should be excluded. We have done this, received support for such a thing within our coalition and I think that through a debate on the Committee on Justice and Administration we have received support from other members of the Republic of Parliament, so that it is a very positive step that reformes our electoral legislation through the precision of the duties, obligations and rights of each of those who organise the electoral process in our country. What was inevitably present as I would not say criticism, but as an analysis of the failed election process is the issue of funding, i.e. the issue of the cost of the re-election process. Is it more expensive for Serbia not to have a president or that it is suddenly trying to get him? Both have its unacceptable price, and for this reason we have decided that that legal obligation, which obliges the state to finance presidential candidates with a thousand net earnings, has changed the new category which obliges the state to finance the presidential candidate's election campaign with five hundred earnings and thus save 50% of the funds that have been spent so far. So we act thrifty and try to solve this kind of problem in such a way as to save the modest means for another purpose anyway. I don't think the parliamentary group of the Democratic Opposition of Serbia can accept the kind of initiative that requires us to establish a 25% censorship in the first election round, or agree to the idea that the president of the Republic should be elected by 25% of the voters who went to the polls. That's unacceptable for two reasons. First of all, because we want to, as a parliamentary group, to get the President of the Republic who will be elected because he gets the support of those who are political factors in Serbia, not because he can take advantage of the legal benefits and use senseless criticism and campaigning against everyone and everything to get the minimum needed to be elected President of the Republic. We think that this minimum of 25% is exactly the same and that the election campaign would turn into a campaign of accounts, at least care would be taken to the interests of citizens, the interests of society and the fact that it is impossible to live normally in Serbia, politically, if there is no willingness to engage in political talks and accept arguments and respect for counterarguments. So we don't agree to a 25% electoral census and insist on a 50% electoral censorship. I repeat, this is not a precedent, it is a good rule present in many modern democracies that should be respected because of the constitutional status of the President of the Republic. What is also very important is the question of repeating the election. The current constitution accurately defined the obligation to call elections. There are also deadlines in which such a thing seems to be, but there is a completely intact circumstance and situation in which the election of the President of the Republic does not take place. That is why we have had several problematic interpretations and yet another difficult circumstance in the law itself which obliges us to discuss the elections without taking into account the fact that there is a difference between choices and re-elections. In view of this and the fact that our political reality is such that it cannot be ignored, the DOS has decided to propose an amendment to the Law on the election of the President of the Republic, or more specifically, to the addition of which the President of Parliament is authorised to decide on the date on which the elections are held. So, it's not to call it, it's to decide. There have been a lot of discussions on this issue on the Justice and Administration Committee. That's where I offered the arguments I was obliged to offer you. The constitution has not defined the issue of a person or institution who decides to call the elections. It has been said that the early elections are being discussed at the initiative of the Republic government, but if there is no such initiative, the person, or institution, who makes the decision to call the elections, is not defined. You know who's calling them, they're being called by the President of the Republic. We, in the Constitution, or in any existing law that treats that area of our political life, or action, have no established category of person who decides about it. Because of the political reality that is what it is, the fact that we have a failed electoral process and the fact that we repeat the electoral process, that we have before us elections for the parliament of the Serbia-Montenegro community, we have decided on this kind of width that, on the one hand, requires Parliament's trust in the president of Parliament and, on the other hand, the willingness of Parliament to consult first and then all the other political factors in our society. So, we propose to amend the law that gives Parliament's president the opportunity to decide when elections will be held, and, of course, with an agreement with us to set a precise date. What's so important about that? Because the strict norm and the obligation to hold elections 60 days after the upcoming failure, which, of course, would not be good, but we need to talk openly about it, because we do not know today who the presidential candidates are, or what options they are willing to participate in the election race, we are pushing Serbia into a kind of political agony that cannot, in itself, be affirmative for parliament or for the state of our country. Through consultations in our parliamentary group, we have decided on the kind of width that, of course, must be strictly controlled and which can be controlled by parliament, because no one thought that the president of the Assembly would voluntarily decide when elections will be held. This freedom and width is needed to have enough space to react in line with the interests of Serbian citizens and the fact that elections should not be repeated suddenly and that it would be good if new elections were organised together with elections for the federal parliament of the new state union of Serbia-Montenegro. These are the biggest changes that we have introduced in this law on the election of the President of the Republic, taking into account first and foremost the fact that it is not possible to reform electoral legislation with amendments and additions to this extent and that we need constitutional redefinition of the status of President of the Republic, so that we can then without these rigid norms, to which the Constitution today obliges us, to establish the procedure for electing the President of the Republic and its functions, authority and obligations. In modern democracies in the world, it is true that citizens choose the President of the Republic without any censorship. It is also easily replaced by parliament. The previous president of the United States was subjected to such a procedure and had the outcome she had, but that's one good example. There is no censorship there, but Parliament can very easily control the person elected as President of the Republic. These two great disproportions asked us for some kind of balance and balance that was found in the amendments and additions to the laws that we have proposed. There have been several amendments that we have accepted and that is, above all, an amendment that allows citizens who have acquired their electoral justice in the list between the first and second rounds of elections during the adult life. The deadlines for the final formation of the electoral list and the distribution of voting material have been separated. They coincided, so in the previous election cycle there were illogical situations where the voter lists were formed at the same time as the voting material was printed. So it's a paradox that's now changed, and it's also a good positive deviation towards regulation of that election atmosphere and the ambience in which the election process itself is being organised for the President of the Republic. We have accepted the opinions, but unfortunately they are not amended precisely, which fully determine the competences of the municipal electoral commission, i.e. the electoral commission of local self-government, and define that it has its permanent composition and its extended composition. Something like that is understandable. However, the amendment, which I think is an amendment to the SRS, has not been formally accepted because such a thing has already been defined by the Law on the Selection of People's MPs. So it is not the intention to play the party amendment that had the presidential candidate in the last election cycle, but rather the need to confirm such a thing, but with the conclusion that it has already been contained in the Law on the Selection of People's MPs. So this is the maximum we can do at this time to elect the President of the Republic. This is an expression of good political will. It seems to me that all the political obstacles that stand in the way of the Serbian president's election have been discovered, and that those legal and constitutional conditions that are inescapable and insurmountable cannot be changed as parliament, but we must do everything we can to ensure that good programmes, an active election campaign and one correct attitude towards voters are allowed to elect the President of the Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-05-0.u24004	Thank you. I'm asking, do the committees want the word? Mr. Pitch? Mr. Hiber? No, I don't. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) Here you are, MP Dejan Mihajlov, president of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-05-0.u24005	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honourable citizens, our return to the Assembly is certainly an indication that this country has a future, because justice is still available and that the will of citizens is respected. After us, the presidential elections failed, which failed for several reasons. One is that a good part of the parties, including those who have called these elections, boycotted those elections, which we did not have updated voter lists and which the diaspora did not have the right to vote. These are all the things that we promised citizens when we came to power, and these things were part of the election programme of the former DOS. The DSS insisted that the same laws be passed and that elections should be discussed under the new law. In the absence of this, the direct consequence of such a relationship is the fact that we went to elections under the law that was contrary to the European standards and standards of the OSCE and the moment it was brought in, and not to say how contrary it is to those standards now. The law on the election of the President of the Republic has institutes which are contrary to international law, i.e. international law norms relating to the election of the President of the Republic. The censorship sought in both the first and second electoral rounds does not know any of the countries in Europe at the moment, and it is as inappropriate. The interest above all is to change the existing law, to allow the president of the state to choose and stabilise opportunities in the country, so that further changes in society can continue. First of all, we are referring to the adoption of the Constitutional Charter, the creation of a new constitution of Serbia, and after that of all other laws that will allow new elections to take place that will really reflect the democratic principles of the new Serbian Parliament. Stabilization of the state is something we need. As we needed to normalise the work of this congregation, so we needed to stabilize the state and the opportunities in which the state is located. We don't know what will happen to the SRJ, and the work on the Constitutional Charter is about to end. It should be completed, the Constitutional Charter should be adopted and a new Serbian Constitution should be brought in line with it. It is therefore important to get the president of the Republic of Serbia, to round up the construction of democratic institutions in Serbia. In the only place where someone who is a representative, let's say, of the old regime, should be chosen and solved and the election process closed. This is very important because of the position of Serbia and Yugoslavia in the international community, due to the completion of the construction of democratic institutions and the election process. This is a law that is likely to do the job, if it can be said, only once for these elections, since after the new Constitution of Serbia and the Constitutional Charter, we will have a whole new law, a new corpus of electoral laws. The lack of censorship in the second election round is something that is completely acceptable and normal in the international community. We do not see that there is any obstacle, if the powers of the President of the Republic are taken into account. What is controversial is that it is left in Article 5 of the amendment and complements the authority of the president of the Assembly to decide whether to call or not to call the elections. This is totally unacceptable, for the president of the assembly to decide not on which date the elections will be called within a certain deadline and how much campaign for these elections will be, but rather whether these elections will be called, so that the will that gives birth to an immature situation is left unsustainable. That is why it is necessary to limit that time limit. For example, here's what's going on. Within 60 days, the speaker of the assembly decides when to call the elections. He can decide that these elections, since there is no restriction in the constitution, should be called in six months, so that he can act as president of the state or V.D. as long as possible. the President of the State. It is therefore necessary to specify all time limits, all powers of the President of the Assembly, which would replace the President of the Republic in the event that he is not elected in the re-elections and in order to eliminate any uncertainty that may be possible if we have such a legal solution in this article. We don't want to believe anyone's word, because it's proposed here -- trust us on the word, and then we'll do it. If we still had a rule of belief in a word, we wouldn't need laws, courts, we wouldn't need a state, we'd all trust each other in a word, and that way everything would work. Of course no one here can and should trust no one else by word, but all the provisions and all that is important must be established by law. What is very important and what, unfortunately, will not be done at the will of this assembly for the next presidential elections, is that it will not go significantly towards the regulation of the electoral lists and that it will not allow our non-EU citizens who are abroad to vote. It is very important that all citizens of this country feel equal, that everyone has the right to vote and that everyone is allowed to vote for that political option they want. By removing or failing the agenda of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, which the DSS has proposed, it is impossible to update the electoral lists more significantly, and we now have about 500,000 people on the electoral lists more than there are real voters in Serbia and it is not possible for our citizens in the diaspora and our citizens to vote. It is very important that we do so, for the first time in the multi-party era of the new state, let these citizens go to elections and vote, that they do not feel like citizens of another country, which will give them the right to vote, some foreign countries, whether it is Canada, America, Germany or another country. They need to feel for the citizens of this country and we have to bind those citizens to our country. There lies the potential for our country's development, both financial and humane, and we can't give up these people. By refusing to put this law on the agenda, to allow the diaspora to vote, we just did. The diaspora can vote in both France and Germany, both in Poland and in many European countries, not to say in the countries of the former Yugoslavia, where the case is known both in Croatia and BiH. The diaspora cannot vote alone in Serbia. It is bad, the responsibility for this is in this House and we have promised to change that for all of them. The Democratic Party of Serbia will decide whether or not to support this bill in accordance with a decision to be made on amendments to this bill, because we must not allow this law that we are making to have a lot of ambiguity and a lot of vague norms that leave a certain amount of self-will to one, and so is the president of the Assembly, whose members we are. Everything needs to be specified by law in order to reach a state that will be regulated as soon as possible and to enable us to elect the President of the Republic, to adopt the Constitutional Charter, to adopt a new constitution, electoral laws; and, of course, we choose by all those laws, from the President of the Republic to Parliament, and thus put an end to the basic and primary changes of the system in this country which we, to remind ourselves, have promised our citizens two years ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-05-0.u24006	Are any of the presidents of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-05-0.u24007	That question has been resolved and there's no reason to ask him. It'll be solved by the board of directors, and you know it well, it's only a question of when you're going to find out what you're asking. The Honored Presidency, fellow MPs, the SPS parliamentary group will not support the proposed amendments to the Law on the election of the President of the Republic of Serbia, as their election rules change during the elections, and thus essentially bring inequality into the electoral process, as well as because the proposed amendments to the law are not complete, i.e. They did not cover for the change in all the bad that was seen in this year's presidential elections during their implementation. We are opposed to amending the provisions of the Law on the election of the President of the Republic now, during the election process, between the two election cycles, practically halfway through the election race. We are opposed to reducing the censorship of votes needed to elect one of the candidates in the second round, as well as other excessive changes. The changes, if they should be, should have been made before the election was called. This could, of course, have been what the DOS wanted, because this assembly has been there for almost two years, and it was known recently that this autumn there will be elections for the president of the Republic of Serbia. Why is it that the DOS is later understood that existing solutions to the election of Serbian President Anachronism, that the remains of the past time, that such solutions do not exist in other countries, that they are not democratic etc? Why did the number of votes needed to win, that famous censorship, suddenly become so important? I must also remind some of my colleagues that at the time of the adoption of this law on the election of the president of the Republic of Serbia, just by certain leaders of the then opposition, some of which are now in the DOS, a claim has been made that the 50 per cent voter census, as a condition of the validity of the election and the victory of one of the candidates, is appropriate to the powers given by the Serbian Constitution to the Serbian president. It was then said that Serbia's president has Caesarist powers and that it is logical, accordingly, that at least 50% of voters stand behind such powers as the elected president, that the law was made according to President Milosevic's aim, etc. There are now amendments to the number of voters. It's in this new article 5z. None of the promoters, we haven't heard from Mr Jovanovic, not to mention the great authority of the president of Serbia, is proposing an amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and it is not particularly said to whose extent these changes are proposed, i.e. to whom DOS changes are most used. Another fact about the famous censorship proposed by the abolition is needed to know that it was in the period between 1997, when previous elections for the president of the Republic of Serbia and this year's September elections were held, in fact, reduced by over 670,000 votes. In 1997, Serbia's electoral body numbered 7,220,000 voters, and this year the number of voters amounted to over 6,550,000 voters. By reducing the number, logically, the censorship of the necessary votes to elect the president has been reduced, but not as long as it takes DOS candidates to win. That's why the censorship is being abolished now, because if Mr. Kostunica or Mr. Labus had won on October 13th, the law would certainly be undeniable until the next election and nothing would have changed, especially the censorship. I must remind you that the elections for the President of the Republic of Serbia are scheduled in mid-July with great haste, with an explanation that this is the deadline, and in the meantime we see that we have the strength for another election cycle, because DOS was absolutely sure that its candidate would win and there was no need to amend this law in the way he was proposed. It happened that DOS itself believed in what the media placed on Serbian citizens, that everything was fine in Serbia, that honey and milk flow and that all it needed to do was call the elections, and the winner knew in advance. Citizens obviously did not have the same view of the reforms being carried out, nor of the impact of the DOS, on the contrary, it is obvious that Serbian citizens believe that things are not as they appear, that there are no institutions of the rule of law, that there is no respect for the right, that the executive power has taken over all the government in the country, that economic and spiritual poverty is increasing, that the country's economic wealth is being sold, that the number of unemployed persons is increasing, and so on. That is why the citizens did not give support to the majority DOS candidates, nor did they vote in the second round of elections. The media campaign to vote in the second round of elections has not yielded results, nor has Mr. Paul's invitation on behalf of the Serbian Orthodox Church, which has been involved in world affairs this time. And because he did not win the election under the existing law, that is, he did not get the necessary majority of citizens, DOS is changing election laws to ensure the necessary victory of the candidates. That the electoral censorship, now this ex post mind, should not exist, we should be persuaded by the representatives of some Western countries, referring to their experiences and telling us that this is not the case, nor is it a practice. All for DOS and all for DOS, of course. The DOS has proposed amendments to the laws that were also adopted by the CESID, calling NGOs, and almost from a to s, and who in doubt can look at the proposals of the electoral laws proposed by CESID. However, DOS added something of its own, but later on. On the symbiosis of DOS and CESID also a little later, but it was visible during the elections that there was absolute co-operation in the work of the RIK, especially in the fact that CeSID was not a neutral observer in these elections as it is presented. It is interesting that during the elections, he claimed that he had over 10,000 observers didn't find any, but not one, injuries to the electoral process throughout Serbia. Don't tell me it wasn't there. The proposed amendments to the law, particularly by reducing the censorship of the necessary votes to elect Serbia's president, also violates the principle of equality in the election process, over the election of the president and his impeachment. It is logical that someone chooses and resolves in the same way and under the same conditions. The constitutional provision concerning the impeachment of Serbia's president says the president has been called off if the majority of voters vote for it and, of course, the impeachment is decided directly and secretly by the voter's statement. If we adopt the proposed amendments to the law, then the president of Serbia can and will certainly be elected with a very small number of voters, certainly far less than is necessary for his impeachment. Same man, same function and completely different conditions of choice and impeachment. The bill for amending the law, in addition to a direct reduction in the number of votes required for the election, also contains a provision, also contained in item 5z of item 2, which indirectly reduces the number of votes required for the election, in a way that the number of voters who voted solely on the basis of ballots in the ballot box. And this provision has been changed, taken over by CeSID too. The rule so far has been that the total number of voters who voted is determined on the basis of the voter's list, and the number by rule was slightly higher than the number of ballots, because there was the possibility that voters and citizens would come to the polling post, enter, take the ballot and simply do not vote. Now, with this amendment and the addition of the law, that possibility is abolished. Dear Members of Parliament, our MP group cannot accept the proposed amendments to the Law on the Election of the President of the Republic and because some of the proposed amendments are extremely incorrect, provide the basis for different interpretations and decisions; other amendments introduce inequality among candidates in the electoral process, as well as because they do not cover provisions that are practically not respected in these elections, i.e. they were subject to specific interpretation of the RIK or other words, RIK felt that we do not need these members, that they should not be applied at all. We do not believe that Article 5i should be accepted in the proposal that we have received, because it contains a position that is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic and can be interpreted differently, which concerns the obligations of the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Serbia's constitution on this is clear. In Article 78. The Serbian Constitution states: "The president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is calling elections for the MPs and for the president of Serbia." The proposal we received extends the powers of the President of the Assembly. The 2nd member said the speaker of the assembly within 60 days, since the day the failed elections were held, has decided to call a new election for Serbia's president.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-05-0.u24008	People's MP, do you use the next ten minutes as your boss?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-05-0.u24009	Yeah. It is clear that it is the assembly president's obligation to call new elections and that he cannot decide on it. If it decides, the president of the National Assembly may decide not to call a new election. If different interpretations about the new presidential elections are to be avoided, possible political volunteerism or political crisis, the provision on new elections must be clear, the time frame must be highlighted in which the whole election procedure is repeated, and for the president of the assembly, as someone who calls the elections should stand a provision - the sea, it is required, it is obliged to call new elections, not to decide. It is not acceptable for a member to apply to the deadlines for calling and holding elections. By reducing the lower limit from calling to possible holding of elections from 45 days to 30 days, an absolute inequality has been introduced among presidential candidates, both in the work concerning candidateing and in the part of public representation. Since we have already heard that new elections are expected in early December, this is what the Constitutional Court has given us, although it is not officially asked about, it means that in just over 30 days we will have new elections. Under the current law, candidates must be submitted no later than 20 days before the elections are held, and it is clear that only ten days remains to collect 10,000 necessary voters' signatures and that this will be an objective obstacle for a larger number of candidates to join the elections, especially for those who are not DOS candidates, i.e. The authorities. Those candidates who succeed will continue to be in an unequal position with regard to the possibility of public representation in relation to candidates from the first round of this year's presidential elections. It is clear that the echo of the political and media campaign, which has since the beginning of the previous elections, has clearly favoured the ruling DOS party candidates and their loved ones. In that sense, the new elections are only a continuation of favouring candidates for these political options, a continuation of past elections with the third and fourth rounds, respectively. In this way, the starting position of other presidential candidates in the new elections is not and will not be roughly the same, is neither fair nor fair, and thus will not be legitimate. Such a political match does not give the winner legitimacy in these elections, and thus does not achieve the political stability of the country for which many obviously verbally advocate. Candidates of other political parties in these elections should obviously serve as a legal and political decor to DOS. The proposal for amendments and amendments to the electoral laws in our opinion did not include other members who had words in the first round of the presidential elections. It should have been suggested that Article 47 be deleted as well. Law on selecting Members of Parliament, which shall also apply in the case of the election of the President of the Republic. This article, I would like to remind you, each applicant of the list, or the candidate's proposal, shall have the right to make an insight into all the electoral lists within 48 hours of the establishment of the summary electoral list, through its representative, and to determine whether they have been arranged properly. The pool voter's list is published in the Official Messenger no later than 10 days before the day specified for holding the elections. In accordance with these provisions, since a summary election list has been published, the SPS representative has made an insight into the documentation of one of the candidates, who, under the circumstances, has excluded a member of the SPS, and has found that there are at least 6-12 statements that do not comply with the law, which are without signature, without stamp, without the signature of an authorised person, with the wrong name of the promoter, etc. We asked RIK to adopt an objection and annul the candidate's candidacy and we received an answer to Article 48. The law that applies in these elections does not apply. Therefore, this member should in general, and in the worst case scenario, the provision of a summary list and the rights of authorised persons should be abolished. I must also say that the Republic Election Commission in these elections implemented and interpreted the law, that it itself created conditions for irregularity in the electoral process, not to mention candidates who were subsequently included in the electoral list, that they were given the opportunity to collect signatures and beyond the time limit, that they had not submitted the appropriate number of signatures as a condition that they would simply be established as candidates. I must also say that the Republic Election Commission has not even discussed an official report by the MUP, under which, by September 7th, only 10 candidates established since then have met with the law provided for that they may be candidates, i.e. they did not have 10,000 necessary signatures in order for that candidacy to be accepted. Not to mention that RIK, by law and its Rules of Procedure, ruled out after the first round of elections from its work and party representatives who had their candidates and made up the extended composition of the commission. I'd like your attention to keep two more brief questions. Election lists - it's a subject that's been used a lot over the past few years. The ballots are messy. Almost everyone agrees on that. What they disagree about is why they are who they are and who they are. The story of the previous government as a reason why the lists are not neat is the essential removal of responsibility from DOS for the voter lists. The organisation of voter lists is within the competence of the SO and thus DOS, as DOS has held local authority in a huge number of municipalities since September 2000, and since 1996 in the 50 largest municipalities and cities, and in one 30 since 1992. It was, then, obviously enough time for the voter lists to end the office if desired, and it was obvious that it was not, because the voter lists, proved to be, convenient as an excuse for election results depending on who it suits. Finally, we also believe that there is a huge lack of elections held and that the Supervisory Board has not worked, which is why no assessment of the conditions in which the elections were held could be heard from the competent authority. Of course, as a party, we don't accept the grades that CeSID gave, because he approved of all the bad things that happened during the election campaign and all the bad things that the electronic and printed media did. The Supervisory Board should be part of the electoral process, to be drawn up, that is, if the perosonal composition is not responsible for the National Assembly selecting a new Supervisory Board, so that it can assess the conditions in which elections are held, the violation of electoral silence, the representation of participants in the media elections, and other matters of importance for the electoral process and the need to respect the equality and equality of all candidates and parties in the elections. So, as a small number of members are proposed to amend the electoral laws, not by providing the same conditions for all candidates, that they are not proposing for an amendment and a number of other members whose application proved to be poor in the first round of elections for the president of the Republic of Serbia, and most importantly - because election rules are changing during the elections and bringing inequality into the electoral process in order to create conditions for the victory of one of the DOS candidates, the SPS parliamentary group will not support the proposed amendments to the Law on the election of the President of the Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-05-0.u24010	Thank you. The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-05-0.u24011	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, for a crucial amendment to the Law on the election of the President of the Republic, there are very valid, justified reasons for the provision concerning the voter's release in the second election round. And if it weren't for some other factors, we might have voted for this bill of law, but we can't vote for one important and one less important reason. First I'll tell you that less important reason. This law was supposed to be changed a year and a half ago, a year ago. It was supposed to be changed in time. Well, then get out, by law, to the elections. Because it has appeared everywhere in a civilized world, where there are more democracy and where democracy is more developed, that it is a smaller percentage of citizens who go to elections. Well, that comes down to 30% sometimes, and the election is valid. There are countries where it's up to citizens to go to elections. In Turkey, there is a fine for not going out, about 80% exits. Greece has an obligation to go to elections, yet it does not go to a higher percentage than that achieved in Turkey. It's about the countries of parliamentary democracy. It is for us to expect - if democracy develops and if things are settled one day in the country, if there is no such organised chaos in parliament, in constitutional institutions, that it will also weaken the interest of the people for the elections and that a smaller percentage will go to the elections. And for this reason, this censorship of citizens, i.e. voting, should not be set. The voter has a right that he can and doesn't have to take advantage of, and that obligation should not be imposed on him. However, the most important reason we will not vote for this law is that today you are completely against the law, anti-constitutional and anti-businessal prevent 19 SRS MPs from participating in the work of the National Assembly session at the first session of the new regular session. There are, of course, some things we can't accept. First of all, there is a fact that this law is passed between two electoral tours due to the failure of the first tour elections. It's not the law not to elect a president of the Republic, it's the candidates who couldn't attract citizens to vote for them. I admit - I was defeated in the first election round, but I won the second election round, and that's why I'm very pleased. It's more important to win in the second round than in the first round. Now... I've been Milka's president a long time, but you just don't understand it yet, slowly, slowly. I don't care who's keeping that chair for me temporarily. What's the basic problem here? As soon as it was rightly established that the elections for the president of the Republic failed, the president of the National Assembly had to schedule new elections immediately. What your lawyers have explained - there is no time limit; when there is no time limit it means immediately, and it cannot be extended for all eternity; if there is no time limit of a week, the moment when the elections have been found to have failed. Here it is not delayed from the aspect of the Constitution, from the aspect of the constitutional obligation, within which elections must be scheduled, everything is respected. The election was scheduled in time, even a little sooner than was necessary. All that is six months before the term of office, these are not early elections, both in the case of presidential and parliamentary elections. You see, in America, there's been a presidential election long before the president is in office, on duty. But the problem here is that the president of the National Assembly is not the same day that the appeal proceedings were closed before the Supreme Court, he scheduled new elections. Of course, you can appeal to the principle of opportunity, you needed to change the law. It was necessary for you, but it is not for us and it is not for the state; and it is not the Constitution. In order to satisfy your need, you have in a certain way trampled constitutional and legal standards. It's not a terrible step, but it's very important that they stamp out in public. Because the election has to come sometime, so who's coming alive, right? Maybe they don't go in the order of the list in those liquidations, but they mix up the cards, so when they arrive. Furthermore, this election problem has been completely analyzed here. It is not a problem that only 45% of citizens went out in the second election round to vote. It is a much bigger problem that there was no single voter list and is expected to propose this legislative project, which is the DOS parliamentary group, this new parliamentary group -- Serbia's Reform -- to propose a criminal measure for someone who is guilty of not having been a single voter's list. We all know there was no single electoral list, and the state institutions are acting like it's none of their business. Without a single voter's list, elections cannot be valid. Unfortunately, it was just us Serbian radicals who pointed it out on time. The DSS only remembered when they failed to elect their candidate in the second round, and then it was too late, because the consequence couldn't be theirs, desired, to declare Kostunica's choice. Kostunica was once so declared, so thoughts can be made every time. As a result, it could only be an election cancellation and a rescheduling. The second consequence was not possible. That's what some serious lawyers had to do to you. Secondly, we have a problem in functioning the Board of Supervisors. The Supervisory Board provides by law for a body of the same importance as the electoral commission. Without the Supervisory Board, the elections couldn't be valid, they couldn't be regular. The election without a supervisory board is illegal. The Supervisory Board has been formed for monitoring and presidential, and parliamentary elections. The brutal force of the National Assembly secretary was prevented by the work of the Supervisory Board in the National Assembly building, so the chairman of the Supervisory Board had to hold a press conference outside the National Assembly building. Furthermore, there must have been a criminal provision for those who, on the basis of forged documentation, insert some candidates on the ballot. Only five candidates were regular in the last election. Besides me, it was Kostunica, Labus, Bata Zivojinovic and Vuk Draskovic. There were six irregular candidates, with falsified documentation. These are people who were missing between two and five thousand signatures. Nebojsa Pavkovic lacked 5,000 signatures, and many of the signatures read on Labus, then crossed, then entered Pavkovic. The fake professor Pelevic lacked two thousand signatures. Then, Vuko Obradovic was missing more than a thousand, Dragan Radenovic, Tomislav Lalosevic and Branislav Ivkovic. Branislav Ivkovic lacked more than a thousand signatures. We objected, the Commission refused. The police have confirmed our allegations, police have given their official report, as police have been ordered to check in their register whether all those signatories have the right to be signatories. In Pelevic, they found Montenegrin citizens or some who are neither SRJ citizens, and many people who have confirmed him twice. He was probably giving something for that overa, so people were going, standing in line there, hat there, this over there, that, that, and three times he was certified by a man. This was happening, and it was impossible to prevent, as RIK deafened and the Supreme Court of Serbia deafened. What was the interest of RIK - since each candidate has the right to his representatives in the extended composition, RIK has wetted thanks to 11 candidates and has always been able to count on representatives of at least these six falses - candidates, to vote as requested, as desired, and always has.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-05-0.u24012	Mr. Seselj, will you use the next 10 minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-05-0.u24013	Yeah, I'm using for another 10 minutes, because I think it's good to bring up these few legal problems that we've been facing in the previous presidential elections, so that it doesn't happen again in the future. Penal provisions for media behaviour should be introduced. On some media, we couldn't open our eyes in the first round of stretching Labus, in the second round of stretching Kostunica. That was amazing. I don't know how those from the underbilling million dinars, as far as they got from the state, could finance so many videos and so many shows. That should explain Labus and Kostunica and, of course, the political parties that supported their candidacy. Here, for the re-elections, there is a double amount in the name of funding a pre-election campaign, which means that if there are 11 candidates again, there would be under 500,000 dinars, and for over 10,000 signatures, it would require exactly 500 thousand dinars. So, you can't even cover the cost of a signature check. The intensity of all democratic societies is that political parties stop funding by sponsors, fund them by the state, because then a much more correct position of political parties from the aspect of rights and morals. Of course, you'll get into a situation -- just beautiful sponsors around you while you're the ruling party, and once again, when you're opposition, you'll see what the axis of the sponsor means. You just find one sponsor, pay you 100,000 dinars, and the next day the financial inspectors leave him for six months. It's bad, too. I also spoke to those before you - when you are in power, you have to act the way you would like the government to treat you when you are an opposition. Of course, this lesson may not mean anything to you, but it would be good to think about it a little bit. There is no need to finance campaign costs at all, but it should have been now, this was an opportunity to bring this regulation into line with basic needs and to prescribe to all electronic media that each candidate must be given a certain quota of free terms, free videos, and that video payments should be prohibited. Because we can't get into a situation where the elections are won by the one who has more money. I guess that's not the point of democracy. Some, who have huge amounts of money, Cana Frog or Michael Djordjevic, or who knows who, will rent all the TVs. The elections in Montenegro have shown how dangerous it is in the conditions of a small state, where it is possible to bribe nearly half the voters, literally bribe, with 10-20 euros, as anyone will vote. We don't have to bribe the voter, but we can block all the TVs. You saw, on all TVs in Serbia, normal political shows stopped when the pre-election campaign started, only paid terms could be obtained. We must avoid the elections being won by one who has the most money, and that can be achieved by tightening the conditions of the run, it can be 15, and 20,000 signatures. No, there's enough 10 grand in court, but there's no counterfeit amongst them. Because it turned out - that it was strictly respected would only be five candidates. And like this, it was 11, because six were with forged signatures. So, what's there to do? To change this law, the Law on the Selection of People's MPs and to say that every television has to separate so much space, every radio station so much and so much, every daily newspaper so much and so much, and it's forbidden to pay for it, so let someone by the persuasion of the message get the voter's trust, not by the number and the aggressiveness of the broadcast, because one convincing message, if very rarely broadcasts, has no chance of getting any of those messages that can be the dumbest, most empty, but they keep repeating and spinning on all televisions. It's about funding the election. As for the vote, I've seen that there are quite a number of amendments to the use of voting rights. Don't play people. It is impossible to vote diaspora, the people of the diaspora, until conditions for controlling the vote are secured. You who have proposed such amendments have not indicated whether we from Belgrade will send controllers to Germany, France, America, Canada and Australia, to our diplomatic and consular representations, or whether we must form our party in all the countries of the world, so that there is membership to perform our role as controllers. That's absolutely impossible. If we send controllers out of Belgrade, then those controllers won't be able to vote in their polling stations. Who's gonna pay the plane ticket for those controllers? Who's gonna pay for their accommodations there? It's better not to vote than to vote without control. When we passed this law, and it was passed by consensus of all political parties and DOS actively participated in it, although you had very few MPs, I mean only Casino Party and Vesenov, but we all participated in it together, we had in mind these specific cases. An alternative has been made whether the convicts will vote or not. I can vote, it is desirable that they vote if political parties outside the prison walls can send their controllers to prison. They said it couldn't, the Department of Justice, the prison authorities, that it was impossible and then it's better not to vote in prisons than to vote without control. Of course, there's one category of citizens who are immobilized, disabled, who can't make it to the polls. If the state is able to provide them with hospital vehicles, sanitary assistance, staff who will bring them to the polls, they should vote, but someone going to their home so that they can vote without the control of all political parties, that's pointless and why that vote, when in advance they know who will vote. As far as the army is concerned, that's where we found a happy solution, an army to vote in the nearest polling station to its barracks. That's the best solution. Otherwise, if voted in a barracks, there is no barracks where consent is possible to come from political party controllers outside the barracks. It's already politicizing the army. I know you're doing that politicization another way, but now you've also held a DOS meeting at a military facility. Since Tito and 1971, the 21st session of the Executive Bureau of the Central Committee of the Central Committee of the Republic of Yugoslavia in Karadjordjevo, I don't remember that session. The press has announced it's a military facility. Maybe not, maybe someone for three euros bought it a long time ago, and we don't know. Maybe that's it, but let us know that we know and then don't call it a military object. Say, the Canet Frog, Chumeta, Lemon, Make, Covica object has various gentlemen who are engaged in the buying-in. I'm a supporter of dialogue, and you can come into my word freely, I don't mind. Therefore, it is not good to make new complications. Find a solution. The basic problem is control. We can arrange a vote on the moon, on Mars, if party controllers can be present. You're not going to tell us in America that Michael Djordjevic is controlling our vote. He's in a state of wonder to buy, bribe, etc. Who's going to organize it? It's pointless for you to do that. He who is foreign minister and has strong control over the ministry, over diplomacy, will have all the votes for himself according to diplomatic and consular representations. In Montenegro, Predrag Bulatovic stole the Serbian Radical Party's two parliamentary mandates in the Citizens' Council in 2000 and a parliamentary mandate in the Republic Council with 30,000 votes from the envelopes. People voted, who knows what kind of people, and he has all the envelopes on the pile. That's what we said in the constitutional session, you had no hearing about it. We had an argument, they stole our mandates, just like they used each election tour with it. He was an expert at a time when DPS was unique. For Milo and Momira, he did the job, the man reported. In order not to be crucial in the expression of national will, such a possibility should simply be eliminated. What does the voice in the envelope mean? Who can control that? It can travel with an envelope from the place of voting to where the envelope is opened and how many times can that envelope change or its contents shake out and put on another one. Therefore, anything that is not subject to objective control on the spot, an assessment of impartiality, should not be included in the electoral law. This law and in order to have to endure fundamental changes, however, you obviously did not do so. There was one key question for you, and this is the question of the censorship of the second election round. The issue can be very easily clarified, but many other issues remain. You gave this bill special rights to municipal election committees. They're gaining rights, but who's he going to take responsibility for? These are not commissions formed by the Republic Election Commission to be held accountable. We can build a complete system of election commissions at the state level, but someone has to be in charge, somebody's got to be in charge. Each election commission submits a report on its work exclusively to the assembly of the municipality it has chosen. There can be done additional chaos. It is possible to ask for the help of the municipal electoral commission, to engage them, but to play such an important role in the conduct of the electoral procedure would not be wise and do not make new problems happen now for these reasons and that these municipal electoral commissions behave according to which municipality in Serbia the party in power is in.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-05-0.u24014	The word is made by Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the DOS parliamentary group - Serbia's Reform.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-05-0.u24015	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, only in the shortest time to respond to the remarks made in these opening debates by representatives of parliamentary groups, so that perhaps the debate is clearer. The remarks regarding the voter's list; therefore, the formation of the electoral list is a process which is not interrupted by the end of the election and the best confirmation of our serious relationship with the voter lists is, among other things, the fact that from December 2000 until September, when the elections were organised, so over a period of just two years we excluded about 40,000 people who were enrolled two or more times from the voter lists. Secondly, there are problems in the voter lists, but the fundamental misunderstanding is in interpreting the role of the state, i.e. the current authorities in handling the voter lists. It's not a one-way relationship. So, if we want a fully correct voter list, without error, then we have to have on the one hand a state that is active in that process, which controls it, but on the other hand we have to have citizens who are also willing to be active participants in making an up-to-date voter list. Unfortunately, we do not have such a system and objective estimates at this point say that it takes at least four years to create a central electoral list that would be correct and that would also be somewhat unspeakable at the same time, to the extent that it depends on the citizens who make it. Therefore, those objections which, in fact, this bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the election of the President of the Republic are considered to be incomplete and incorrect because the central electoral list is not mentioned, nor do we introduce the obligation to draw up a central electoral list. With or without this law, the central electoral list must be made. It's done, but believe it's a process that can't be completed in a year or two; at least at this point it takes us four years to form a central voting list that's correct. The role of local self-government in creating electoral lists at the level of local self-government is high. It is also the same problem, however active local self-government as it is, it cannot fully produce a good polling list unless at the same time they are active citizens who, for example, change their residence, who get the right to choose, and then do not use their right because they travel somewhere, go to studies abroad, but remain enrolled in the voter's list. Hence, the difference between those who have the right to vote and those who use this right effectively and effectively. So it is not about any abuse and I think the issues have been properly cleared by representatives of the RIK and the Supreme Court of Serbia. It's about a process that's the way it is and that lasts. The role of the media in the election of the President of the Republic; an agreement has been signed in the republic's parliament by all participants in the election process, which was committed by public service, namely RTS and Radio Belgrade, to a correct attitude towards presidential candidates. This relationship meant a strictly defined number of broadcastable videos, a strictly defined number of free propaganda space and a defined space in information emissions that was equal and uniform to all participants in the election process. Another problem is the active role of individual presidential candidates who simultaneously perform certain state functions. The problem is present and will always be present, as it is impossible to exclude the activity of the president of the Republic or vice-president of the Federal Government and to define its space in the media through what it is doing in the election campaign. It seems to me that a major shift has been made, especially in relation to RTS towards presidential candidates. As far as private media is concerned, there may be no uniformity, but it depends primarily on the character of that medium. There is no possibility at this time that, to the extent that certain presidential candidates would want to, or who wanted to, exert influence and pressure on electronic or printed media if they were privately owned. I propose that presidential candidates who participate in the next elections make their remarks at the session of the Committee on Culture and Information, who will likely offer a new document that will regulate the media's attitude towards the presidential campaign and the ever-repeated election cycle. Finally, the diaspora vote and the issue of people abroad; there is obvious contradiction. On the one hand, a correction of the electoral lists is required to the extent that only those eligible to vote on the day of the election of the President of the Republic would be included in the vote. As an argument in criticism and republican administration and RIK during the failed election process, the fact is often used that there are so many and so many citizens in one voter's list, and that it has used its right 10, 15 or 20% less. You can't ask for a correction of the voter list, on the one hand, all the way to a level that will not be reached only by people who vote specifically, and on the other hand, ask for the right to vote for people in the diaspora. It is also too serious, complex and political issue that is affecting the essence of the political system. Do they have the right to vote those who exclusively insist on their right without any obligation to the state in which they create authorities? If there's a commitment, what's she like? Whether it is normized by some law or it depends solely on someone's relationship and deviation to the state, the national being and everything that is at this point characterizes the diaspora's relationship to the queen. In the end, I repeat again, there are international conventions. This is not in line with, say, the recommendations of the Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights and there is no such example in the world, unless, in a good example, it is a good example of Croatia, which we have just discussed and concluded jointly, in which the OSCE suspended the right to diaspora to influence the election of MPs and has its representatives in parliament, or the Parliament of the Republic of Croatia. There's a problem with Gračko, but it's too specific. I don't think we could come up with a good solution that way. The status of the diaspora should be otherwise resolved and certainly cannot be solved by the Law on the election of the President of the Republic. So this is the maximum of what we could do. If there is, this incorrectness towards the candidates who participated in one election cycle because of the change in the rules in the other is serious and we do not have a completely legal answer. I remember very well, and we cannot avoid it, our insistence not to change election rules during the 1997 election process. At that time, we firmly insisted on respecting the census and in the second round. The government then solved the problem in another way, with 400,000 Albanian votes from Kosovo and Metohija, but did not change election rules. However, we are not prepared to count on these votes, they are not really for us voters, because they cannot exercise their electoral right and we cannot provide an election process in that part of our territory. That is why we need to apply this kind of amendment to the law that would, in fact, unblock a political problem above all. We can discuss this for a long time, but we have chosen this solution that is much more political than legally covered. I don't think it's obvious that something like that should be avoided. We want the president and we will come to him with political compromises, and even at the cost of facing the fact that this kind of initiative was fiercely criticised five years ago, when we were opposition and boycotted the election process. Those presidential candidates and those parties that are looking for something like that today, the elimination of censorship in the second round, five years ago interpreted the murder of democracy. I do not think that we are going so far this time and that we are allowing citizens to get the president of Serbia, and that we are keeping this serious legal norm in the first election round, in order to respect constitutional categories that really allow a lot of things to the President of the Republic through powers that are great, powers that must finally be supported and with a valid number of voters who have chosen us to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-05-0.u24016	Do any of the representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? Here's a word from the People's MP, Natasha, in front of the Social Democratic Party - DOS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-05-0.u24017	Dear President, dear colleagues, I am Natasa Milojevic. Our colleague doesn't know that, and as of today, the head of the DOS parliamentary group - the Social Democratic Party. The previous debate and discussion on the amendments and the addition of the Law on Elections of the President of the Republic of Serbia may also have caused some confusion, not to mention the confusion of a number of audiences of congregation transfers, since the session was not long. Well, let's just take a chance that we're at the centre of attention today for a few reasons. One reason is that after a long time in Serbia's political scene something called co-existence or a minimum consensus on the bar of parliament's work has been achieved. On behalf of the Social Democratic Party, I welcome the willingness to co-exist. The other is the darkness itself. On October 13th, the second round of elections, we did not get the president of the Republic of Serbia, we did not choose another lever and an institution of the system such as the institution of the president. What does that really mean? It means that democracy and the functioning of not only the political system, but society as a whole, is at stake. The Social Democratic Party is not satisfied and has already submitted an initiative on 14 October, or a proposal to amend the Law on the election of the President of the Republic of Serbia as a parliamentary group, i.e. as part of the parliamentary group then DOS. Hence, the decision to form a parliamentary group today and to support the proposal by amending and supplementing the Law on the election of the President of the Republic. There are several key points in this. First, a crisis that is only political for now cannot be deepened and cannot continue. With the election of the President of the Republic, hopefully, we will prevent deepening and turning the political crisis into something more, into a social crisis or even conflict. No matter which President of the Republic or President we will get in these elections, we will get the system institution as one of the basic conditions that the system works and not only works, but it will go in the direction in which we agreed in 2000, which is in the direction of total reforms. Secondly, what may not be clear to the citizens of Serbia is whether it is important that we have the President of the Republic more than the fact that we have reached an earlier internal coalition agreement or consensus. I think both are equally important. The Social Democratic Party, as it has always been so far, does not exemplify itself, underlines self-evidentity, is right and insists that it is always right when it wants a democratic principle to be implemented and that constitutionality and legality are respected. In the event of a mandate, the election of presidents and the election of MPs, the SDP was consistent, engaging that this parliament was finally working in its own assembly elected in the 2000 elections. Thirdly, we hope that elections for the President of the Republic will put an end to all previous electoral systems and open a serious, responsible broad political and social debate in building a new constitutional system, and hence the adoption of all or all of the electoral laws. To conclude, regardless of the absence of the opposition colleagues' attention, there were many objections to the bill. I don't think almost all the remarks stand. In particular, there is no objection that the diaspora should vote, for several reasons, but the first reason is constitutional. Diaspora - which one? If you are not a citizen of the Republic of Serbia, you have no right to vote. This must be clear to all those flirting with the diaspora and, of course, calling for legality and constitutionality.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-05-0.u24018	Any of the other representatives come forward for a word? No, I don't. ) The word has a People's MP, Aleksandar Vukic, and let MP Zoran Angelkovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-05-0.u24019	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have received another bill from the ruling majority, although today it is difficult to know who is in that ruling majority. Maybe from now on, a lot of things will be clear, so it'll all be back somewhere on October 5th and on those who were then coming to power by burning down the federal assembly and building RTS. I have to point out a few formal-legal illogicalities when proposing such a law, which is that the law is proposed at the moment when the electoral process is already under way, when the electoral procedure is under way, when we only have re-elections. Legal rules and legal procedures must not be amended in the course of the procedure itself. This requires a fundamental principle of legal certainty, a principle which, by the way, this National Assembly, without speaking of the Government of the Republic of Serbia as an executive body of government, dozens or hundreds of times has already been trampled. It's something that should be a key remark. It wouldn't be or would be much less a problem if such a law had been proposed three, four, five or six months before the election procedure began, but your suffering has forced you, therefore, to resort to these amendments to the Law on the election of the President of the Republic. Not by chance, primarily because the ruling majority lost the trust of most people in Serbia and is in no condition, both factions of government in Serbia were unable to perform more than 45% of voters in the second round. I must say that we from the SRS parliamentary group have submitted several amendments, and it is necessary for the public to say that it is very small changes and a very small number of members, to those members we consider to be in full violation of the constitutional rights of citizens and even those who are running for President of the Republic. For example, Cedomir Jovanovic explains to the opportunity's reasons the reduction in the amount to be received by presidential candidates. So, twice as much in the re-election process, although it's the same process, although it's something that would have to be exactly the same and in which presidential candidates would have to have the same rights. If we took now, I'd say, something that's logical. If it is clear to all that now in Serbia's presidential elections, we will have, most likely, two serious candidates, one candidate of the government -- seeing as you've made a nice deal today, you Djindjics and you Kostunicas, that everything will work out, that it has forgotten the decision of the Administrative Board on taking office, about everything else; Montgomery said yesterday that you have to agree, as Mr Bogdanovic says -- it's nice to hang out, to be flexible; two, two, two and a half years you've been distracting people, none of it bothers us, we're glad to finally have Serbian citizens seeing it, we're glad that the citizens of Serbia understand it -- and, there's another, the opposition candidate. We are sure, especially after the first election round results, when there will be no more lies from the alleged public opinion agencies, which give the opposition candidate three, four, five percent, so he gets 24 percent, that all votes will be brought to those places and that there will be a decisive battle. Now the question arises whether those who have passed better are to blame, so they will go to these elections, and now they should be punished, not to receive as much financial resources as they can pay for the signatures they will have to collect again. Don't forget, all presidential candidates will have to reassess 10,000 signatures, court-certified, and that's just as much as they will now, according to your bill, be able to get. Nothing for the campaign. We, in our previous campaign for our presidential candidate, have not paid any local television, except, possibly, one or two shows at a time, but we haven't paid anything from headquarters. We didn't pay for videos on any television, we didn't want to broadcast them on Pink TV because none of the Serbian radicals could visit for years on that television and on many other TVs. I have to say one thing, why didn't someone say by changing this law -- let's do equal conditions; and not Labus was coming out of us, except that we haven't even got out of the fridge when you open it, and in the second round of Kostunica, there's no difference, but that's why certain presidential candidates weren't anywhere. Now there'll be only one of you. Make him just one presidential candidate. It's so nice for our presidential candidate, the opposition presidential candidate, to beat one candidate of the regime to its feet and make that clear. Whether it's gonna be like that or not, we'll see about that. We hope so, we expect it, and of course, the will of the voters, the will of the people, we will respect it anyway. What represents a key problem is a central, unique electoral list, which we kept talking about. Let me give you an amazing example. The son of Tomislav Nikolic, since I know he won't talk about it, who twice voted in the same polling post, is now gone in the voter's list, believe it or not. Why isn't he on the ballot list? He's not on the ballot just because that man, they knew he was voting for the opposition candidate, not for the candidate of power. It's not meaningless. I'll explain why. It's a game of large numbers, not one man in one polling place, but 30 people in every polling place. Multiply it from 10,000 polling stations in Serbia. It's a game of large numbers and it's much more serious than you'd like to present to the public. There are those who are sure they won't vote for the regime, that they won't vote for power or any of the candidates of power, and then, of course, without a single ballot, we can't and we don't control who votes. There is not a single word about it, no one here is thinking of speaking, not even the representatives of the government, or, as the new parliamentary group is already called -- DOS -- Serbia's Reform or Serbia's Reform, as they have suggested. So the SRS parliamentary group insists on that. The election process cannot shorten the time for the election campaign. How in 30 days, when Natasa Micic, tomorrow, explains to her that there will be another day of Parliament's president, until this deal is fully operational, schedules an election for December 8th and we know in advance that we are nowhere, on any television, except for what will be 45 minutes on RTS, unless some genius realizes that it will cut that time to half an hour, to visit all the cities in Serbia, and especially how to visit most of the village in Serbia? We don't have television like you do, that's a huge difference. But, no matter what, I'm sure that all of this you're doing, all of this that you're trying to do won't bring you fruit, that people will know that in the best possible way, that people will be able to punish you and all of these distractions, and all those frauds that have lasted for more than two years, where you've played each other's power; and the opposition, and in the end, once again, you've agreed that you're all power; I congratulate you on that, thank you, but I'd like to tell you one more thing. I have to say thank you, because now I'm going to tell you why, some say, and the last few days it's been common in newspapers, they say, "Seselj, the servant of the new master, his main target is Kostunica." Now I have to tell you something, thank God we now see that we have a master, a single one, it is our Serbian people, and it is evident that Kostunica and Djindjic both have the same master, and it is called William Montgomery and there is no difference between Djindjic and Kostunica, and that is why the upcoming presidential elections will be won by Vojislav Seselj. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-05-0.u24020	The People's Messenger Zoran Angelkovic has the word, and let the MP of the people be prepared, George Mamula. To remind you that the time of the SPS parliamentary group is 44 minutes and 24 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-05-0.u24021	Ladies and gentlemen, today we have heard here about this law that he is in fact an expression of political will and that for these reasons, for reasons of political will, he proposes to this Parliament and is proposed of course to adopt. Of course, laws can be expressions of political will and are when voting and voting in parliament, some kind of expressions of political will. However, questions arise when and which law can be proposed in parliament and at some point as an expression of political will and whether the law has some basis and whether it can be accepted and considered in this republic's parliament at one point. Of course, I accept that anything is possible, it is possible that even today, here, almost at the end of working hours, at 1600 hours exactly, I think that most MPs here would ask them who the MP is, they wouldn't know exactly who the MPs are, who they are, whether they're MPs from June 12th, or August 28th, or October 10th; I tried to be honest and to find out from the professional service, and they told me -- well, they're from June 12th, and not those after June 12th, but well, that's just like that. It is important that there is a list of 250 MPs and that this is the Serbian Parliament that is considering. I say from that position that, of course, this law can be adopted today as an expression of political will, but even the promoter here, the head of the DOS parliamentary club, said that such an expression of political will was not possible even in 1997, when we had one failed election process, when I say missed, so Serbian citizens did not accept it and did not give enough voters to complete the election process and, of course, in the second election process, the procedure under the electoral law that was in force at the time. That was 1997. The government or DOS secured a parliamentary majority in 2000 in October. We also heard from the promoters that the intention or desire was not to change the election law in the year of the election and that's fine. It is okay not to change the electoral law during the election year because, of course, it can adapt to the current conditions of the political atmosphere in the public and the like. But if it wasn't intent and if it wasn't the intention to change the election law during the election year, then it's even more reason, it's harder to change it during the election process. You know how that would be, that would mean, like when a football game lasts, and it's important to win the home team and now you have a free kick and the judge says - well, now that the first shot missed the player who kicked, he says - there's no more living wall, now the living wall is moving away and here's the footballer who kicks, kicks without a living wall, or in the extensions of the game decides and completely changes the rules of the game that the guest team can punish any offense with a penalty. In fact, here it is wanted to, at any cost, be legalised or compensated within the DOS and ensure that the president of the Republic of Serbia is better declared. Of course, if you want to declare it, then you better bring the law here as an expression of political will and declare the president of the Republic of Serbia, the one you designate, you have a parliamentary majority, it's even more correct than to reduce the electoral censorship in a way that we don't know, because according to this as proposed by the electoral censorship, it's possible that only presidential candidates go to the elections and be unsettled, or that only one who thinks he's going to win and, with one vote, be president of the Republic of Serbia. It was necessary, even if we were to accept that we are considering this law, to determine some minimum censorship for voter turnout in order to come to what is logical. So, as socialists, we are not running away from the need to discuss election laws and not only the electoral law for the President of the Republic; but, of course, we are absolutely sure that Serbian citizens cannot accept that in a single election process the rules of the game are changed and that those who are so keenly advocated that these rules of the game cannot be changed in the electoral process now we are in a position that they are proposing to change the rules of the game to ensure the victory of the candidate who is agreed in DOS to be president of the Republic of Serbia. That's why we can't just support this law. Of course, there is also this proposal of another law, or it is better to say the amendment, where 25% should declare the president of the Republic of Serbia and maybe it was better to write 2%, and I don't know how much, if you want to at any cost that the law exists. Secondly, what I have to say about the number of voters, if we are already talking about this since this issue is being opened here, you know, it can't, is not a voter's list of municipal ballots, the voter list in the Republic of Serbia has to be not unique by name, it has to be unique, because one institution is responsible for the whole of the electoral list and it knows what the voter list in the Republic of Serbia is, and especially when it comes to the President of the Republic of Serbia or when it comes to Republican MPs. It can be a set of electoral lists if there are local elections and it is a set of electoral lists, and when elections are for the president of the Republic of Serbia or for the republican parliament then it must be a unique voter's list and for it must be the old Republic Election Commission. That's who's going to help her, whether local self-government, that's another question, but that's a matter of helping, not a matter of transferring authority and removing responsibility from the Republic Election Commission. Of course, here in this article, it is now proposed, in this Article 2, to be precise in the former Article 5 of the amendment and that the election committees are organised by local self-government. The electoral committees cannot be a gathering of constituency committees, electoral committees for the Republic's Parliament, and for the President of the Republic, they can only be unique election committees. Local self-government can propose candidates for election committees, but local self-government cannot sign solutions for them as final without the Republic Election Commission verifying those elections. Of course, if we are to do this now, then at least the obligation here should be put in place to ensure that local self-government takes care of the proportionate representation of the committees in local self-government and therefore to form election committees in that territory of local self-government. So, just this is just an attempt to legalize the existing situation and take down responsibility in principle -- go on taking care of each other, if someone wants to be president, let them be, it doesn't matter how. But when it comes to the total number of voters, I have to say one more thing, here it was said that as in 1997, Albanians and so on, however, each voter in the Republic of Serbia has to sign up and have to exist, including those millions of voters in Kosovo and the Metohija who have been deleted. If it was to legalise the state that they couldn't vote, then it could have been another member, that the number of voters that count in the quorum, if we could say so, would be the number of voters where the polling stations were opened according to the RIK's decision. Therefore, if the polling post is not opened somewhere in Kosovo and Metohija, if it is not open for a million voters, it is not counted, but in the total number of voters it must be known that it is seven million and 200 or 300 000 voters, not six and a half million voters, because no one has the right, nor RIK, to say in any way now - these million voters I do not recognise. If you don't admit it because it's not an open polling post, then it's not open to a polling post in some places in Presevo and Bujanovac and who says those polling stations have to be treated and those voters from that polling post in the polling list. Then it's more logical and fairer to say -- where polling stations aren't open, where election committees haven't done it doesn't get into the total number of voters that count, when it comes to 50% going to the polls. Of course, I don't want to open these other questions, which is necessary if we want one comprehensive law. And if you wanted to change this law, then it should have been comprehensive when you already have most of it and you want to change it, not just trying to legalize and provide one need or desire, I guess, at any cost, for someone to declare themselves President of the Republic of Serbia. I said - if you want it then you better declare it in Parliament without changing the rules of the game in the election process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-05-0.u24022	The People's Messenger, George Mamula, has the word. Let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Tomislav Nikolic. I remind you, it's time to discuss DSS for two hours and 37 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-05-0.u24023	There were no problems with going out to elections, greater or less, in countries where there was no voting right at all. When a general electoral right was introduced for all full-time citizens, a problem arose to allow citizens to come out as much as possible, as then the problem of boycotts and uninterestedness arose. In some countries, then, punishment for voters who do not want to participate in the elections was imposed. With us, voting rights are not also an obligation under the Constitution and the law, and even according to this proposal, it is also seen that not participating in the elections is also a non-participation and that non-participation allows for choice or non-election, and the latest elections have shown that the lack of elections cost 400 apartments. That's why it was really necessary to make a change to the law, because our turnout is consistent with the world average, so it's an extremely high censorship and made it possible for the final elections to go the way they did. If you compare these solutions relating to the election of the President of the Republic with some other laws and other provisions of the Constitution, you will see that in this respect this condition for the election of the President is approaching the condition required for the change of the state border. The argument that a high censorship will allow the president to have greater authority and that it will show the strength of his political personality is not sincere, because in recent times, we hear in the public scene that the President of the Republic should choose parliament, so that I believe that the proposal that you received through the amendments, signed by representatives of the DSS, shows the real reality and that a quarter of the electoral body can be the basis for the legitimacy of the role of the President of the Republic, as it can be seen under the current conditions that the president is elected as if it were a referendum. In addition, I think it is very important to adopt a proposal to allow voters who are not included in the list of voters to protect them by exercising their right to enter the voter list through the court. The comments on the Legislative Committee, as well as on the Committee on Justice, show - there were remarks that it was too short a period of 15 days. That is not true, because if the procedure were to begin before the first election round could end between two electoral rounds, so that more citizens could exercise their right -- to be included in the voter's list. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-05-0.u24024	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic. I'll remind you that the remaining time is SRS 18 minutes. Let MP Branko Ruzic prepare himself, in front of the SPS.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-05-0.u24025	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, or you who make up the majority here and who you have proposed and perhaps you will vote for this law, apparently that the success of one presidential candidate, Dr Vojislav Seselj, and in the first and second rounds of elections, has forced you to make very urgent and under-thinking moves. In the first round, Vojislav Seselj, despite the media blockade and despite the engagement of dozens of agencies that gave him up to 10% of the electoral body, won almost 24% of the votes and thus showed, with victory in the second round, when our call for a boycott was accepted, that the re-elections would paint a completely different voter's mood. And how it wouldn't be like that. For a month I traveled to Serbia and only by the mass response of police officers in certain cities could I conclude that in these cities, on that day, the rally was held by Labus or Kostunica. The people were gone. It was the police. We had the people, and there was no police. So what now? Instead of the government doing well, the president of Yugoslavia is doing well, you are changing the law and reducing the censorship. That adds up to the moves you made before the election was called. It goes to the modified composition here, the complete composition of the RIK for a month before the election, so RIK, in fact, makes you DOS. This also applies to the absence of a single electoral list. I would never say what I'm going to say now, but I have an obligation, I'm asked by the Vitakovic family, my friends from Kragujevac, to at least try to ease their pain by all knowing what the municipal administrations are doing to you when they make up voter lists. On the third of October 2002, the City Administration in Kragujevac, the Secretary of the General Administration, Secretary of the Secretariat Slavica Nikitovic, brought the solution to enroll in the city of Kragujevaca Vitaković Neda's electoral list based on the acquisition of adulthood. The solution was delivered to the Vitakovic family, and little Neda died in 1991 in a car accident. It caused a shock in the house, severe trauma, and that's another registered voter more than those who will never be able to make the election. Not to mention cases in my neighborhood, I can speak names all the time, it doesn't matter, mostly voter lists lead to how you like it. And now by amendment, or by bill, you introduce an electoral unit, the unit of local self-government into the game, you give it four points of authority, rights. One of them is to make technical preparations for the elections, which is the authority of the RIK, and then at two points you say that the local self-government electoral unit delivers a copy of the voter's list to the voter's board. In the second point, the election commission units the local self-government election material from the polling station and a copy from the polling list delivers after a vote was made to the RIK. The amendment that you adopted today illegally - since there is no basis for the Committee on Justice to be discussed now, has not even begun the debate on the draft law, giving an amendment to the bill, and you know it very well, the committees can only give amendments that are already in line with amendments - the amendment of the Committee on Justice, which you will probably accept or not, but if accepted by the Proposer, has become an integral part of the bill, the rights of the election commission of the local self-government unit are expanded. You read the amendments to the SRS easily. We were not meant to challenge the law, the need to pass laws. We didn't have the opportunity to expand what you suggested, we just technically arranged what you suggested. Well, I guess it's normal for that local self-government electoral unit to act on the RIK acts. The Justice Committee says -- between the two electoral rounds, the RIK, based on a municipal court solution, will enroll voters who have acquired adulthood or have not been enrolled. How will the polling lists be with the election commission of the local self-government unit, and what is RIK, if all jobs are taken over by the election commission of local self-government units? What else was going on in these elections -- RIK tried to educate the RIK college, to be composed of the president, deputy president, secretary, deputy secretary and member of the RIK, to issue a statement to the college and hold press conferences. RIK, some members of the RIK, and it is easy to establish which one they hid from the RIK report by Serbia's MUP, which officially reviewed the candidate's documentation for Serbia's president and found that six candidates do not meet the conditions for being on the election list. Only when we, perhaps other representatives of some candidates, received a report from the police that they sent it to RIK, but that someone was hiding it there, and when we alarmed at RIK, that opinion appeared -- to God, late, after the decision of the Supreme Court of Serbia. The unique electoral list does not exist. And then, a CD arrived at RIK, which was said to be, without a label, without a signature, without a certificate, that it was a CD from the Ministry of Administration, as it is already called, which was said to be a unique polling list. When they invited an expert from the National Assembly to open the list on the computer, he found it to be a worthless CD, that it could not be opened and that there was probably nothing on it. It's RIK's work. The easiest thing to do is to reduce the censorship, but if two candidates of the ruling structure, one that symbolizes power at the Federation level and another that symbolises power at the level of the Republic of Serbia, cannot bring 45% of voters to elections, and is decided on one of them, then it is a sign that power needs to be changed, rather than a reduction of censorship and a change of election rules. We won't interfere with this at the vote. We don't want it to turn out that we're against reducing the censorship and that we want it to get harder forever. We have a candidate, we have a real candidate. We'd like the law to be in accordance with the Constitution, but we're looking forward to a new election. But we tried to fix it for you with amendments, to use one word throughout the bill. If you use the term - voters who voted in the first, in the second and third positions of the same member cannot be said - the elections went out, but -- voters who voted. If you say - the re-vote in one position, the other cannot be said - in the second round of elections. This is legally illiterate, and we did not just ask the government to declare this bill and to declare the amendments that we have submitted. We also talked in benches. The question is, what is it that most of those who went out, why is it not written - more than half of those who voted, so it would be clear to all. And just one more sentence -- well, it's incomprehensible that if elections fail once, so they have to be repeated, that those candidates who run again, or those who only run for the first time, have twice the means for a pre-election campaign, than those who participated in the elections once, so the elections failed. Whom do you punish, can the candidate for the President of the Republic be punished for failing the election? Or could it be someone who was not a candidate at all, but is only now running in the re-elections? And where is equality and equality and can it go in the Constitutional Court when it's evaluated?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-05-0.u24026	The word is made by MP Branko Ruzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-05-0.u24027	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the fundamental intensities of the promoters and the fundamental issue of this draft law on amendments and amendments to the Law on the election of the President of the Republic are practically based on the support of the people, which neither has the DSS nor the DS. So what's also the case, it's that one election cycle is over, but the election process is ongoing, which means that another election cycle should be conducted on equal terms. But this proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the election of the President of the Republic introduces inequality among candidates. Also, Article 88. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia clearly defines the way the President of the Republic is called off, where it is clearly said that the impeachment of the President of the Republic of Serbia requires a two-thirds majority in parliament, and then 50% plus 1 of the total b of the voters enrolled in the Republic of Serbia, so that this proposal could also be said that the amendment and addition of the Law on the election of the President of the Republic of Serbia is conditional on the conflict with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, as the way the elections differs greatly from the way the president of the Republic of Serbia is called off. Of course, this is primarily about the daily-political interest of the DOS, in that integrated version, given that the DSS needs a position of president of Serbia, for the reason that the current SRJ president managed to bring the common state to its inactivity before the collapse, so he probably needs a new job. As for the DS, they need the adoption of the Constitutional Charter, in order to definitely begin the process of atomising Serbia and dissipating its state unity. Whether they will also conduct a disguised boycott of the presidential elections, as their new, or old coalition partner, would not get enough votes, it is primarily a question for the DOS presidency. Of course, Serbian citizens, after today's rotten compromise between the DS and the DSS, finally realized that it was both sides of the same medal. The proposed ad hoc change of the Law on the election of the president of the Republic of Serbia cannot be supported by the SPS primarily for principled reasons, as these changes are only the result of the interests of the DS and DSS, and are not the result of interest in improving Serbia's citizens. The SPS, of course, is on the issue of regulating electoral legislation, but in a comprehensive, comprehensive way, and above all in a way that is in the interest of all citizens of Serbia, is open to talks; in this corpus issues should also include the issue of diaspora participation in the elections, which the SPS otherwise stands for; then, the issue of rationalising the electoral censorship, a comprehensive update of the single electoral list and the question of the mode of control of the electoral process. Here, a representative of the proposings in the opening statement informed us that it was practically about removing or removing some alleged obstacles. Of course, the vast majority of Serbian citizens are clear that both the DS and DSS have one objective and their common obstacle, which is a lack of majority support for Serbian citizens. That, of course, the two sides of the same medal will show time, and this rotten compromise of these two called opposing political options, according to which the DSS will most likely only declarely require that parliamentary, or extraordinary parliamentary elections be called in Serbia by 2004. Such political confusion, for the sake of all responsibility of DS and DSS, will deepen the political, economic and social crisis in Serbia, and therefore it would be really good to consider the interests of Serbian citizens and to call early parliamentary elections, not to think about the interest of your political tutors.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-05-0.u24028	The word has the People's MP Vladimir Dobrosavljevic, and the next is the folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-05-0.u24029	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course, is of the utmost importance that the entire package of electoral laws, unfortunately not in general, but at least in their own part, has today been found in front of the MPs of the Serbian Parliament. In fact, election conditions, as one of today's top politicians, Giovanni Sartori, would say, are the most specific manipulative weapons of politics. By electoral law, you are in fact discovering the right idea of the legislator, whether it is a desire for the elections to succeed, whether the desire to show the true electoral will of all structures within a state, or whether it is simply a desire to impose the absolute will of the ruling majority. In this sense, changing the electoral law, which concerns the choice of the President of the Republic of Serbia and the proposal that we have today, and the previous law as we have, in many ways, is contrary to the parallel electoral laws that we can see in the countries of the European Union, and also in the countries of our immediate environment. Of the 15 countries of the European Union, three are directly elected by the President of the Republic: Austria, Ireland and Portugal. None of these countries know the conditions, they don't know the censorship in the first election round in the way we've set it up, how it's been or how it's proposed now. In fact, the only Ireland has a 40% censorship. On the other hand, no land so-called land. The former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, which is also elected by the president, Slovenia or Croatia, does not have that kind of conditions, do not have that kind of censorship. The only country in our immediate environment that has a condition in the first election round is Macedonia. In this way, with all due respect for the democratic achievements in that country, we cannot have an adequate rapper based on what we need to accept such a proposal. Several times an open question has already been raised here regarding the need for voters to go to the polls. It can be for several reasons, and there is a huge difference between democratic, totalitarian or authoritative societies. In democracy, everyone has a right to go out or not to go to elections. However, no right can invalidate other people's rights, the right of voters not to go to elections, not to vote, in any way should not jeopardise the right of people who wish to participate actively in political decisions made by an organised community, or state. In this respect, we must never leave the quantity to absolute domination, i.e. the possibility to lead the country's electoral censorships to the possibility of not working, a macadam in one of its segments, even in the segment of the election of the President of the Republic, the only in-house body. We must also be aware of one thing. In fact, when we talk about the choice of president in Serbia today and as it is, we are talking about our own ability, us as political elites, as representatives of Serbian citizens and our entire people looking through us, to take care of ourselves, to manage our own political destiny. We shouldn't have illusions, none of us. So, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Republic of Serbia have been under the international community for many years now. What kind of message can we send to the international community if we strictly adhere to the law, as we ourselves prescribe, which in some way binds our hands, except that we are not capable as a state, as citizens, and as a people to look after ourselves and to manage our own destiny. The international community in these areas has repeatedly shown that we are not able to manage our own destiny, that it will come to us and direct us which way it should go. When he insists so much on censorship in the first round, and the reason for that is that in the event of a census being abolished would be a much easier way to choose the President of the Republic than his impeachment, we forget only one fact. The law that was passed in this way, hence the law which is currently laid down in the current constitution, i.e. the methodology for impeaching the president of the Republic of Serbia was passed in Milosevic's time, and that is the rest of the 1990 Constitution, which was made for Serbia as an independent state, with a strong presidential system. By passing the Toad Constitution in 1992, a large part of the responsibility of the President of the Republic of Serbia has moved into the jurisdiction of the President of the Federal State, and therefore calling for such provisions, where it is much harder to replace the President than to choose him, cannot be valid at this time, because none of us in this room, I hope, is the goal that this constitution lasts much longer. The goal is to change it as quickly and as quickly as possible and bring a completely new constitution, which will meet the current needs of citizens and the state of Serbia. In the end, another very important thing. There were several talks and dialogues that indicated that Serbia actually needed a full parliamentary system, that it needed a president who would be elected in parliament. I must say that I personally and the party I belong to, the Democratic Party of Serbia, do not share that opinion. I think Serbia just needs a kind of semi-presidential system like that one that exists in Serbia today, with slightly smaller powers, far smaller than in the half-presidential system in France, because that way the president of the Republic of Serbia will actually be a balance, there will be a balance, a personal balance between all three forms of government -- executive, legislative and judicial. Finally, the election and existence of the President of the Republic who is elected in the direct elections as citizens, as representatives of one organised political community, or state, shows another thing, which is what the purpose of every policy, faith in person, faith in man, standing behind the man for whom the people will recognise that he is an adequate representative of them in one period of time and that as such can be a symbol of all citizens, regardless of all their beliefs, both political, ethnic or confiscation. That is why the president of the state is necessary to Serbia, because in this way Serbia and Serbia's citizens show one unimpeached faith, faith in the personality of man.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-05-0.u24030	The word has a folk letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic. The remaining time of the parliamentary group is eight minutes. The next reported word is MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-05-0.u24031	Dear fellow MPs, we finally welcome that after four and a half months we meet again, that parliament begins to work, and on the agenda of this session is only one item of the agenda, at the request of 77 MPs of the group that recently calls itself the DOS-Reform of Serbia. Sometimes 176, and now only 77 MPs. I assume you have succeeded with this second section of DOS, once again called DOS - DSS Vojislav Kostunica, to settle only this item of the agenda. As a responsible person, I come to the National Assembly every day for months, see if there is any notice on the advertising board, if any committees are working, if any materials are coming into the parliamentary group. There's nothing. Remember, in June of the month, we were announced that we would work all summer without rest. Then the elections were called and this only window in the world, because the only sessions of the Assembly were carried over by the Serbian Radicals can turn to the public through the media closed to us, and that was most likely why the citizens knew why we hadn't worked for four and a half months. They've finally split up one and the other DOS, but when it comes to power and keeping positions, it's very easy to agree. One set of conditions, and these others have a little bit of trouble as a village bride, and then they agree and here we are today with this law on amendments and additions to the Law on the election of the President of the Republic. When we meet again to do something, I guess only before the New Year itself, when the election procedure is over and when we have to decide on the budget. Until then, probably nothing. So we've been in elections for half a year, and parliament doesn't perform its basic function. It is clear to us that the presidential elections have shown that the people will no longer be DOS, that the people have understood where you are taking the state, that the new constitution that Vojislav Kostunica advocates leads to a further weakness of the state, that you cannot break away from the criminal circles, that you will be able to sell out everything that is worth something in this Serbia or perhaps to buy, because the click itself buys everything that is worth...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-05-0.u24032	People's MPs, please stick to the agenda theme.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-05-0.u24033	.... as well as that your service to the West and The Hague tribunal has no end. The presidential elections, gentlemen, have shown that parliamentary elections are necessary without amending the law on the election of the president. If it is true that elections are as expensive as you claimed in the election campaign, then why don't you call parliamentary and local elections on one cost, and let's do that, so let's see how far he says, that's the composition of this Parliament and all the municipalities will be. The fallout shows that the citizens chose not to make any of the proposed DS or DOS candidates, because they are aware that they came from the same basket. You remember that Miroljub Labus went on an election campaign a month before Vojislav Kostunica. Only then was it seen that he had nothing to look for in those elections, then Vojislav Kostunica went to Washington and only then got the green light to run for president....
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-05-0.u24034	The second time I warn you to get back on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-05-0.u24035	I'm talking about the reasons for changing this law. It's the main debate, and I don't see why you're warning me. The basic question arises, why the president of the National Assembly has so far failed to call an election and whether he had the right to stop the election process. If he had already left, then it was obvious, and at least that the Constitution and the law said that he had to continue the moment it was based on the RIK report clearly that the elections had failed. There are two reasons, probably, for that. The first thing was necessary, in your opinion, for the law to change and to reduce the censorship below 50% of the voters, so that the president would be elected. The second reason was probably because you still don't know which of the candidates to confront Vojislav Seselj, who came out as the winner of these previous presidential elections. So it's not the law problem. The problem is that the law has not been respected and will probably not be respected in this next election tour. It was not respected about the single polling list, and you really make it easy when you talk about how it takes us a few years to edit that voter list. Only those who don't understand it can say that. And to settle that, it takes some financial resources, months of good organization, and once and for all, we take that question off the agenda. You have disabled in previous election the work of the Supervisory Board. We can see that's how it's gonna be in the next election, and he's not gonna be able to work. And if you think it's supposed to work, we'd be choosing some new board of supervisors today. We also had six falsified presidential candidates in the previous elections. The question arises, how many will now be in this tour; or it is necessary to reduce the percentage of those voters who would vote for the strongest opposition candidate, for Dr Vojislav Seselj, whom the central government of the country decided on Sunday to run for the next election that has not yet been called, and which will inevitably be called.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-05-0.u24036	The word has been made by MP Rajko Baralic, the next reported word is MP Dragan Marsican.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-05-0.u24037	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, respected journalists, I say esteemed that someone would not, yes, misinterpret me, since from a city where I come from journalists call drug addicts and hooligans, and these are your coalition partners, they participate with you in power. The change of electoral law during the electoral process seems urgent, in order to change electoral rules for potential participants of the election that are not able to win the election under the existing legal conditions. It's not an honorable decision. She's political. You need to run round by the rules that were seen in advance. One law should not be amended because of the daily political or personal needs and thus adapts to one political group or to one politically exposed person. And if we didn't slip into the middle of the election process, we would support the adoption of a brand-new law and move on to the parliamentary system and the parliaments are elected by the president. From the claim that the president has enormous powers and that they are the highest in Europe, there is nothing left. Today, it is seen that the President of the Republic is only an institution, that he has several powers that are modest, not more significant than what the presidents of the Republic have in most European countries. Of course, we haven't had a chance to talk about much, because we haven't met for 150 days. When it happens in some small areas, such as Priboj, when the congregation of the municipality does not meet for just 20 days, there the competent ministry disbands the municipal congregation and introduces temporary measures. It's not good to think so. It is good for MPs to meet and discuss 50 laws that are under preparation, as well as as co-worker Gordana Pop - Lazic, I do not think we will meet until this third election round passes. There has been some reconciliation here today. A political message has been sent to Serbian citizens that DOS functions as a single political organisation, as a coalition and at amendments to the Law on the Election of the President of the Republic, that reconciliation is being placed as something necessary, which is important for the citizens of Serbia and for many things in Serbia, although, of course, it is all completely irrelevant at this point. It's your business how you arrange your relationships. It is our job to tell the Serbian citizens that today a fine conflict has ended in DOS and that there is power and opposition in Serbia and that the government is made up of DOS parties. That's not controversial. There's something I'd like to say about what the law predicts with the authorities that exercise control of the electoral procedure. The logical question arises, what are these bodies for, when there are para-state authorities in our country who take care of all things in the electoral process. It is, above all, CeSID, who does not hide how this organization is financed, who participates in the work of today’s congregation. This is the OSCE Mission, which does what it does in all European countries; this is not controversial. It is, if the law is adopted this way, an insufficiently defined role of RIK and the so-called municipal electoral commissions. That's where I agree with the colleagues who talked about it today. It is absolutely impossible to determine who is responsible for the overall implementation of the electoral process, who is responsible for the absolute control of the electoral lists, for the announcement of election results and who is responsible for everything else that is important in the electoral process and the process. The National Assembly can pass a law that cannot be applied. If adopted as proposed, we will have trouble finding out how municipal electoral commissions function in relation to the Republic Election Commission and how they function where we can't choose them at all in a way that can be fundamentally controlled. I think about those municipalities, and there's about 30 in Serbia, which have so-called so-called municipalities. temporary council. Of course, this law will also be passed and the President of the Republic will be elected. But in the way laws are proposed, as they line up on certain committees, what kind of promotion they get in the daily and second press, Serbia really looks more and more like a protectorate. This law can be unnecessary because it's easier for someone to choose a protectorate than to spend people's money, to choose what's called. President of the Republic, who will not have any responsibility over its citizens and its taxpayers, and will have some other taxpayers and other citizens. There are several amendments here that are meaningful and correct, which are trying to fix a law that is urgent today on the agenda and which is not on the agenda because Serbia needs better law, but because of political needs Serbia needs the president of the Republic quickly. That's the point. The SPS will not support the amendments and additions to the Law on the election of the President of the Republic for reasons which have been presented earlier, even if all the amendments we have proposed are accepted, as amendments cannot be corrected by the very essence of the proposed law.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-05-0.u24038	The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Marsicani. The next reported word is MP Sreten Mitrovica.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-05-0.u24039	Dear viewers, today, after four months, with the interim measure of the Federal Constitutional Court, the DSS MPs are again participating in the work of the National Assembly. (loud from O.R.: It's not like that.) It's gonna be like that. Well, you may not be comfortable with that, but you have to accept that the rule of law has won. It's somebody's pleasure, someone's wrong. We can disagree here, but we have to agree that it's just like that. Thus, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia returned its legitimacy after four and a half months and thus allowed it to work regularly. Is that the crisis in which Serbia is in? Unfortunately, it's not. It was removed, we hope it was removed, only one obstacle that stood in the way of this crisis beginning to resolve itself. This crisis, of course, is felt by Serbian citizens on their backs. They don't feel politicians as rich, as irresponsible.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-05-0.u24040	People's MP, I warn you to stick to the subject of the agenda. We have a bill on amendments and amendments to the Law on the election of the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-05-0.u24041	Thanks for the heads-up, Madam President, but I'm talking about the subject right now. The president's choice is one of the jobs that should help solve the crisis in which Serbia is, and perhaps some MPs are bothered when it is said that the crisis is felt by citizens on their backs, not by politicians who are as rich, as irresponsible as they have caused the crisis, which is something that I don't think is getting away with either. So I had to do this again to get a better understanding and to make it sound better. We took one step by recognising and implementing the Supreme Constitutional Court's interim measure towards the possibility of resolving the political crisis. There are many other things. I don't know why you're uncomfortable. It's an integral part of a joint statement, maybe you haven't read it. Some other jobs need to be done to get Serbia out of the crisis. It is necessary to adopt a constitutional charter, it is necessary to elect a president, we are talking about it here today, it is necessary to adopt a new constitution of Serbia, it is necessary to discuss the elections and Serbia to get a new assembly and a new government. So we're going in one row. One step has been taken. The next step should be to elect the President of the Republic. The draft law amending the law on the election of a president should allow for the election of a president; certainly it is not a law that regulates the issue of the president's election in a comprehensive and good way, but only a single-use law, a law that should be passed in such a way as to enable the safe choice of president, because it is in the interest of the Serbian state. Is this such a bill? I don't think so. You can see that from the amendment submitted by the DSS. It seems to me that in the same way as these old-law elections have been called, that the campaign was campaigned during the presidential campaign, so this bill of amendments actually shows the real goal, the real desire of a group, which I very often called a group that is characterized by a destructive attitude towards institutions, that the elections fail again. As the interest was in the previous round of holding presidential elections so that Serbia does not get the president, I recognise this same intention in this bill, especially in that provision that allows, which empowers the president of the National Assembly to have the right to decide on re-election. Let us start by assuming that we have a responsible speaker of the Assembly: whether and under such circumstances it is possible to allow the President of the Assembly to decide on this without having an obligation and a deadline in which the re-elections will be held. I think this provision of the law actually points to the real intentions of the promoter. How important it is to have the President of the State, the President of the Republic, especially those who keep their eyes on Europe, and always turn a blind eye when European rules are needed to apply here, says that European practice most often knows the different mandates of MPs in parliaments and the President of the Republic, just so that the time of elections does not overlap and that the state would not remain at the same time without the President of the Republic as an institution, and without the National Assembly as an institution. So that's how they solve the problem. Here, I think that wish doesn't exist. The DSS's amendments refer to one of these already mentioned percentages, 25% plus one of the total electoral bodies needed to be obtained in the first round, which retains the obligation to exit the total number of voters enrolled and that is, in fact, what stems from the logic of retaining the censors. If half is obtained, 25% of the total electoral body is what would have been achieved under other circumstances, but here other members of the proposed law have been accepted and that is something that stems from the very logic of things, and I really expect all the MPs who think it is really necessary for Serbia to get the president, regardless of who it was, will decide on it by the citizens of Serbia, to vote for these DSS amendments. Finally, I would like to express really my surprise that it is not in the agenda of this assembly by your will, gentlemen MPs, included the DSS proposal on amendments and amendments to the Law on the selection of MPs, which provides that all those who today do not have the opportunity to vote, all those who cannot vote outside the place of permanent residence, this includes our citizens living abroad and those who are prevented from going to the polling post, therefore, which is not accepted and that this proposal could not be held in the debate and that, according to such an amended law, the first elections are organised. Just a few more words about the great misunderstanding that has been expressed here, knowingly or unconsciously, deliberately or accidentally, for these or those reasons, by a greater number of MPs compared to a joint statement by DOS and DSS. It is interesting that this misunderstanding and misunderstandings come from all parties, and DOS, and the SRS, and the SPS and finally the SSJ, and it is simply amazing that one very simple paper, which contains only three very short sections, brings so much confusion. Of course, I know that you know very well what it's really about and that it's well understood, but above all those who didn't, they said, understood and who both Montgomery and the new coalitions are looking forward to, and so on, I will respond by replicating the prime minister of the Serbian government. He said, also showing a lack of understanding of what he signed, that it is certain today -- it is not there and it should be there, because the assembly when the Prime Minister's ambush should be there, so here I will, behind him, replicate it, but a statement he gave without me being present -- but he said today it is certain that the election will not be for another year. Here, I rephrase, and in order for us all to understand each other better, I will quote Mr Djindjic himself, among other reasons he has denied, and the subject is the elections after the Constitution, therefore, he said that the government survives while he has the majority in parliament. Whether the government has a majority in parliament is easy to check; what this is about is repeating our position that early elections should follow the adoption of a new Serbian constitution and that is also the content of our agreement, if you do not understand it. But if there are obstructions of the new constitution, then it will certainly be a different order.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-05-0.u24042	Replica, MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-05-0.u24043	I understand that individuals may be dissatisfied with what the political organisation is doing to them, but then they should not transfer their dissatisfaction to other political parties that did not participate. So, yesterday when this wedding happened between DOS and DSS and when William Montgomery was besting, we weren't there and now we're bothering you, especially for individuals of you who realize that after this agreement with Montgomery, citizens can vote exclusively for Vojislav Seselj, that Serbia achieves the goals it needs. You've been distracting us here for two years with your conflicts and your reconciliations, and I think it's too much. I don't have any bitterness towards you, I don't feel any hatred for you, I'm just getting ready for a new election, and if you'd traveled a little with Serbia, you'd realize how much Serbia craves new elections, not new loose marriages, unnatural marriages. So I ask all of you here who are not satisfied with your involvement in the government to express your dissatisfaction where it is decided whether you will be in power or not, not to involve the SRS. Here, it took us two years to convince the citizens of Serbia that they made one mistake that cost Serbia a lot, and it took us two years to make sure we won every election. Let us do our job in peace called the collapse of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and at the same time the collapse of the President of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and do not convince us that individuals do not agree that you are the same. You're the same.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-05-0.u24044	The word has been made by MP Sreten Mitrovic, the remaining time of the SPS parliamentary group is 22 minutes, has four more registered for the word, and the next reported for the word is MP Srdjan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-05-0.u24045	The Honored Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, today the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Elections of the President of the Republic of Serbia, is now in this case a group of 77 MPs, based on the DOS leaders' agreement and has sent an initiative to amend the electoral law, which provides for the abolition of the censorship of over 50% of voters in the second round of presidential elections, as well as a change of provisions that reduces the deadline to 30 days for the appointment of new elections. In reality, this would make sense if we weren't working during the election process, which is the opposite of the Constitution. It is surprising that this initiative has just now emerged from those who have been filled with the mouth of legal reforms, and have remembered amendments to the law only when the past presidential elections failed. It is particularly a question of an analysis of why citizens did not go to the presidential elections in sufficient numbers, although the reform advocates promised much. Citizens for these two years of DOS reformist course felt a lot of indetermination, bitterness over job layoffs, the closure of national and state banks and other businesses, the sale of successful businesses, the increase in crime rates, the undefined state status, and the large number of divisions in the coalition itself. It all affected the citizens' definition. The ruling coalition has made a serious failure because it has failed to make a valid and unique voter list, leaving a large number of citizens out of the voter's list, thus denying them the basic constitutional right to choose, or vote. It is particularly tragic that more than 30% of Serbian national people living in Kosovo and Metohija, with severe hardships, remain in their centuries-old hearths, and they are not allowed to choose the president of their republic from their country of Serbia. On the other hand, many are given to members of the Cypriot national community in southern Serbia, with expectations that they will be allowed to engage in the functioning of the political system of the Republic of Serbia. They turned out to have a clear political goal, which is boycotting all processes that tie them to Serbia and seeking to establish a local self-government, and later joining the future Kosovo republic, which is otherwise contained in the programme's agendas of two key Albanian parties in Bujanovac and Medvedja. And with this move, they confirmed their separatist intention, which is only being pictured from the space of Kosovo and Metohija. I therefore think that these amendments to the law are not good, because according to this proposal, Serbia's president can choose a very small number of citizens in the second round of presidential elections. After all, you who are in power now remember what your MPs said about the 50% censorship initiative for the presidential election when you were the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-05-0.u24046	Since MP Srdjan Petrovic gave up the discussion, the word has a folk MP, Bojana Aleksic. The next person to be declared is MP Jovan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-05-0.u24047	I will not repeat what my fellow DSS MPs have said before me, and I will not repeat what the purely legal evaluations of this law are. I would like to put before the citizens of Serbia, first of all, one basic question for me -- which is why we are discussing today these amendments and additions to the Law on the election of the President of the Republic and what is behind it. Is it logical that the president of the National Assembly will call elections for the president of Serbia under the old electoral law, according to a law passed by the one-party communist assembly prior to the multilateral elections in Serbia in 1990, to hold such elections, that such elections, conditionally speaking, fail. Because, in addition to being held by one more than an outdated law of one more than the last time for our people, they were still held by the electoral lists that were oversupply, whose insight we had no right, nor us as candidates for the president of Serbia, nor the citizens of this country. Under a law that does not allow our people living in the diaspora, which we all together in the 2000 pre-election campaign, then as the Democratic Opposition of Serbia, we have sworn and promised as soon as we come to power that we will allow our diaspora to vote, just as disabled persons, prisoners; regulate in the right way that the military will vote, etc., not to repeat. It's obvious that those who called the election when they weren't there, what the DSS indicated in summer this year, had no good intentions. They meant for these elections to fail. They were going to waste a lot of financial resources from which we heard a lot of things could be done, not to repeat now. It's obvious that we can doubt their intentions now. Because if that were not the case, they would have accepted European legislation, they would have accepted experience in the comparative rights of other countries, they would have accepted the absence of an electoral censorship in the first election round. Unfortunately, we have a situation like this, and we have every reason to doubt the good intentions of the promoter once again.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-05-0.u24048	The word is made by MP Jovan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-05-0.u24049	Dear Mrs. Comic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if such a bill had been referred to the DOS coalition's consideration of this assembly a year and a half ago, I would probably be willing to, as an MP for the SPS, think how okay that is. But today when we talk about it after the first failed presidential election, it seems to me that we need choices by so-called. an emergency procedure, as well as everything else that matters in this House, we are considering it this way! From the DOS' point of view, it would be said that this bill has hit the whole point of view, but what Lane Gutovic would say - everything else has been missed, as has been missed and the way the DOS has ruled over the past two years! What exactly do we want to do with this law? We want to elect a president who, essentially, as a representative of the government and as the most express representative of the people will not have adequate credibility. When one election fails, the question arises justifiably - why did these elections fail? Why, let's just say, it didn't happen that in the first round we didn't have a date of over 50%, and we had in the second round, when the candidates were Mr. Kostunica and Mr. Labus, and one and the other as far as they were concerned they were different from whether or not they belonged to DOS -- they belonged to DOS. The first and basic reason for the failure of the second round for me is the attitude of the citizens towards the DOS, towards the government; and if not, then the attitude towards the people is personal. So they didn't like Kostunica or Labus! When something like this happens, then it is most natural to re-election or propose that candidates be replaced or more natural, when they do not trust the people, to discuss parliamentary elections before the time. We, unfortunately, have no government opinion on this subject, and it actually reminds me of the pre-election capping in the first round when, too, we didn't have the government's opinion, especially in the second round, because, if the government had engaged a little harder in the second round, then the percentage would probably be over 45% and we shouldn't change this. So, is every time, ladies and gentlemen, when we get the elections to fail and when we don't get over half the voters to vote, we need to change the electoral laws in order to reduce the censorship of the citizens' necessary exit; well, when next time 40% of the voters come out, we're going to say -- there's a lot of 40% let's go to 30% and so on?- I'm sorry. Is it really logical that according to the previous laws that we have passed, it is harder to elect the president of a municipality than the President of the Republic?- I'm sorry. Is it really logical that legislators don't have hearings for those who say -- so in the second round, let's now not be 50%, but there's got to be some kind of censorship?- I'm sorry. Make it below 50%, but with 5 or 10% votes, the president of a republic cannot be elected, even if it is Serbia. The second thing that is problematic in this bill is that DOS has failed to agree in the past tense. We're obviously late for the election procedure, so then, since we're in time pressure, with no other choice, we're cutting the election campaign time from 45 days to 30 days. If, by any chance, DOS and DSS hadn't agreed yesterday, maybe it would have been only 15 days, and what exactly would that have been leading to?- I'm sorry. I think it significantly changes the conditions in the election, although I only understand it as the second half of one game, which began on September 29th. The explanation given by DOS representatives, a group of 77 MPs, that the reason for the adoption of this law is that most citizens did not go to the elections on 13 October, it simply did not go too far, and if nothing else, it should not stand in the document that we received as a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the election of the President of the Republic! Third, you allow this proposal to allow the voter lists to change between the first and second rounds, by allowing voters to be included in the voter lists! Apparently, that's okay, but in life these people are about to be the target group of those who will eventually try to manipulate in that second election round! That's quite clear. In this regard, the question arises: Is there a correct number of potential voters, who are due to go to elections to change between the first and second rounds? In normal countries, that's not working, as far as I know. For all these reasons, I find this law not good and that it should not be accepted. Since we haven't changed the Constitution, when we haven't changed the authority of the president, the way that we can move that president, who we'll choose relatively easily, there's no point in changing electoral conditions just because the citizens didn't go out in the second round in enough numbers in the presidential elections! So we have to call the election, go again, like it once happened in 1997, so we've had those re-elections, and nothing has been disputed. It didn't work out the first time, but that's why the second time it did. Why not do so now, so that this man, elected president of the Republic of Serbia, would have this legitimacy, which, in my opinion, is necessary, so that in this difficult and complex time, he could carry out the president's very responsible duties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-05-0.u24050	The word is made by MP Milan Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-05-0.u24051	I suppose the citizens of Serbia are pleased that after a longer break, the National Assembly was finally called and that it put a solution to a really acute political problem on the agenda of the first session. The current political problem is the functioning of the institution of the president of the Republic of Serbia. This problem did not appear until after the failure of the second election round in the elections that had just passed. That problem has been acute in the last two years. We have a President of the Republic who, for objective reasons, has been prevented from using his authority. The political will of voters has changed, political forces in the assembly have changed. The man elected president of the Republic seems to have lost the trust of the party that ran him in the election. The international position of the state has changed, so that man can no longer perform a very important function, such as relations with abroad. In one word, the institution of the president of the Republic of Serbia has not been functioning for almost two years. In such a situation, his authority, or at least an important part of his authority, was indeed taken over by the Prime Minister. For the development of democracy, which rests on the principle of power-sharing, it is never a good situation in which two so strong levers of executive authorities such as the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic are found in one hand. This is another very serious problem and another reason why this crisis is trying to overcome it. The law proposed the DOS parliamentary group with a view to, as explained, overcoming the current political situation, more specifically, the crisis of the functioning of a very important political institution such as the president of the Republic. However, the name of this law suggests to voters that he should get us not only out of the current political seal but out of the historical swamp. The law on the election of the President of the Republic belongs to the Corps of Election Laws. Election legislation in the last 50-60 years has been in the biggest crisis in the world. For 50 years there was no choice, so there was no need for election laws either. Instead of the election, we had a vote, and the rules to vote on are something different from the selection process. Only one party was allowed, so she also ran and chose. Therefore, there was no need for the electoral law to regulate this sphere of political life. Then we had 10 years where there was a formal multi-party system, but in which a party that had great power and very great support of citizens at the time tried to fully adapt the electoral laws to the current situation. It is not good when election laws adapt to the current position of any political force. Election laws must be classic laws. They can't contain anything original. They have to be clear and simple, such as the simple and clear rules in which sports competitions take place. It is possible to interpret these rules differently, but the rules themselves must be universal, classical and clear to all. Thanks to the attempt by the multi-party system to obstruct election laws -- brought by the Socialists, on the basis of the Constitution brought by the one-party assembly -- we received this disproportion that today was very much said. That disproportion is what this is all about. On the one hand, the election of the president required half the majority of the voters enrolled, and a two-thirds majority in the Assembly was needed to resolve the president, and then a referendum in which more than half of the voters enrolled would be declared against the president in question. We had in the same constitution a member by which the state border can be changed by half of the voters, if more than 50% of them come out, voting for the proposal. So it's easier to change the state line than to change the president of the Republic. It's an absolute absurdity, and that was one of the reasons why this constitution should have really changed right away. We will not remove this proportionality of the proposed amendments to the law. Since the president's shift has been established by the Constitution, the Constitution guarantees him that he is virtually irrevocable. This disproportion that's been intrusive so far, we're making it even bigger. But the current situation needs to be overcome, so to solve an acute political problem and therefore propose amendments to the current law that will apply only to this situation, and will never be valid again. It will be necessary to pass new electoral laws -- all electoral and accompanying laws, such as the Law on Political Parties -- in order to write the first letter in the alphabet of democracy. The first letter in the alphabet of democracy is good electoral laws. When we talk about this law today, it's fair to say that we haven't written that first letter in two years. I don't want to blame anyone for that. I want to say to the public that every MP has the right to propose laws and that I personally feel responsible for not trying to propose laws that introduce basic democratic rules. For 50 years, citizens of this country, those who were in the position of internal emigration, have sought only one -- free elections. For ten years, we have been disabling the elections that the previous regime has called, because we are right to claim that they are not correct and free. We promised voters that we would immediately put in place rules by which citizens would be able to choose the authority that is at their will. We didn't do it. It's still being chosen by the same electoral laws. We are now slightly changing an electoral law based on the Socialist Constitution. The Socialist Constitution is no basis for modern electoral laws. There are no modern electoral laws on it. Therefore, the Constitution must be changed to bring about new and normal electoral laws. The promoter of these changes is in a terrible seal. On one side, we have a socialist constitution and based laws on it, and these laws mostly went on not to specify it, but to restrict and sometimes suspend constitutional rights. There's a lot of cases like that. On the other hand, there is the democratic potential of citizens of Serbia, who are looking for sincere democratic changes, which require sincere reforms; finally, on the other hand, there is a democratic Europe that shows us that standards in our political culture and our political system in general are not in line with European legislation or with our tradition that preceded socialism. In short, it will be necessary to replace the Socialist Constitution with a modern democratic constitution, and then to pass new electoral laws that will allow honest and free elections. It seems to me that this proposal that we are discussing today has not done everything possible to correct the current law and overcome the current crisis. It was possible to accept the amendment of the Democratic Party of Serbia, which requires that the conditions of the presidential bid be slightly tightened. The conditions for running were once for 100 people to collect signatures and thus run for president. Whether on purpose or not, it was a way for the Serbian president's institution to be ridiculed and demeaned. The conditions for running should continue to be tightened. I also think that nothing would bother the adoption of an amendment that predicts that in the first round, and not only in the second round there are no censors; or, if there is no half-response voter response in the first round, the winner is the one who got 25% of the votes plus one. In essence, nothing is changed because the existing law and the proposed amendments to the law provide for the same possibility. In fact, it's theoretically possible for 50% plus one to come out in the first round and someone to get 25% plus one vote and get elected. So, it doesn't change the essence, and it does, however, allow this law, namely, that this bill that needs to be resolved by a political crisis right now, to achieve its full purpose, to do the job for the next presidential elections - and to go back into history along with all the socialist laws and socialist constitutions.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-05-0.u24052	The word has a folk MP Dragan Todorovic, followed by Joca Arsic, as the last registered speaker; the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group has 12 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-05-0.u24053	Ladies and gentlemen, I will begin my discussion with one question: is there a man in this room or in Serbia today who can tell me how many National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have MPs?- I'm sorry. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia prescribes 250. On the payroll of this assembly there are 308 MPs. Is it true? You don't know, check it out. In this way, article 74 was violated directly. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which you remember by your bad habit, that the Constitution and the invitation to law benefit you only when it is in your interest, and that you never catch it when it is necessary and, unfortunately, the legal emasculating of the DOS has become more complicated with this latest development of events. I will try to present to you the problems you have faced after the decision to honour the decision of the Federal Constitutional Court of 26 June, as I am aware of, with respect for the complaints made by Budishin Dusan and the group of MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia, which is determined to return the suspended parliamentary mandates to the applicants of the constitutional appeal. Namely, by that very act, pursuant to Article 39. The law on the Federal Constitutional Court, when it is found that the individual act has violated freedom or the right of a person and of a citizen, the court will repeal that individual act and determine to remove the consequences arising from that act. It is logical, in accordance with the provisions of the Law on the Federal Constitutional Court, that when it is established that freedom and human rights have been violated by the act of a state body or a legal person, it shall be determined to remove the consequences arising from such action. From the cited provision of a decision by the Federal Constitutional Court and the determination of the return of suspended parliamentary mandates, you listen well, I think you will need it, because in the coming period you will have problems with this and will remain recorded in the legal annals of this state, that the return of the taken-off parliamentary mandates is determined, which results in all decisions made by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the meantime being illegal. I will remind you of just some of the decisions: the decision to elect the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia and the Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia since 19. Six. 2002, published in the Official Messenger; particularly an important decision on the election of the President and Judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia, which is a very complicated problem; the decision to amend the Decision on the selection of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, etc. In practice, all documents should be checked, all records of the presence of Members of the People's Parliament and should be checked for the adoption of the bill, amendments, any quorum in this assembly, as it is absolutely considered that MPs attending the National Assembly of Serbia's meetings, who were not entitled to the Federal Constitutional Court's decision, cannot participate in the creation of quorums, nor in the making of a majority for the adoption of laws and amendments to those laws. So, if the session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia was attended by persons who lost the status of MPs by this decision of the Federal Constitutional Court, which works, I will remind you, therefore, of the edge of the tunc, we must ask ourselves whether those persons were ever Members and were able to participate in the work of this National Assembly. But you will have plenty of opportunity and time to deal with these issues, but I hope that these issues will soon be properly processed. What we're discussing today and what we're talking about today is what you came into, so you couldn't choose, you couldn't get most of the people to choose the president of the Republic of Serbia. I will remind you that the people, who have an unfettered right by the Constitution guaranteed to vote, gave their abstinence non-trust to both candidates who appeared in the second round in the presidential elections and in this way and by their own will, therefore, by popular will, said that they did not support government policy or DOS policy, or DSS policy. This people are right, and by their abstinence, he used his right to plead in his opinion both on the government's work and on the work of DOS and DSS authorities. That's what he said. Now, if we go back a little bit, remember what you were saying in your own time when the Law on the election of the President of the Republic of Serbia was passed, more precisely as the representatives of the then democratic structures in the republican assembly spoke! What were your attitudes then, and what are your attitudes today? In fact, at the time you were saying that the elimination of the 50% census, either in the first or in the second election round, was a non-democratic act. Today, you're all proposing exactly that, so a secret democratic act. Whether your understanding of democracy has evolved so much in the meantime that you have learned after seven - eight years that it is not good or you have just found yourself in a staunch situation that you do not have the support of citizens and you want to post-poo change the provisions of the law, and you will have to change some of the provisions of the Constitution, you will approach the realization of the goal, which is to maintain your authority. Indeed, there are disproportionate conditions to be laid down by the new amendment and supplement of the Law on the election of the President of the Republic with constitutional provisions laying down the powers and means of impeachment of the President of the Republic. It is true that the 50% census in both the first and second election rounds is a very difficult condition. However, this condition has been valid since the adoption of the Law on the election of the President of the Republic to date, more specifically now. I hope you'll have a little more sense for the political reality to approach solving this problem more complexly. Many words were made about the need to lower the level in the second electoral round in order to win the election of the President of the Republic. When you're so thrifty, since I'm a Pyrocan, why don't you worry about the 308 parliamentary salaries you pay in this republican congregation?- I'm sorry. When you're so thrifty, let's see how much time we've wasted on some quasireform legal projects you've changed within five to six months. I'll remind you of a set of law on justice: was that so? Have you adopted the amendments that we have proposed as an opposition, and after eight months you have shown them and signed them as amendments to the government; I will remind you, my amendment since 18 October 2001, after eight months has appeared as an amendment to the government. Because of all this, and in order to raise the democratic level of political action in Serbia, it is necessary to consider whether it is undemocratic, for example, that in some countries such as Greece or Turkey there is an obligation to vote. You could have introduced your majority, which you provided in this indirect way, the obligation to go to the elections, so that people could go out to the elections, not to be abstinent. I'll remind you, too, that in 1997, as I recall, you were the very advocates of abstinence in the presidential election. In all of this, I must mention that if this bill is adopted, which regulates that in the second round, the censorship of over 50% of voters is not required, it will be absolutely in line with the provisions that prescribe the impeachment of the President of the Republic with the way he is elected. And in order to correct that, you must resort to changing the Constitution. Normally, if you want to change the way the President of the Republic's election, then change his responsibilities and the way he calls it off. That, legally speaking, is one right path. But I don't know how ready you are to make that right path and define yourself. In the end, it is really not good when politics is above the law, and you have confirmed by today's meeting of the Assembly that you have a narrow political interest above all rights; today's decision and recognition of the decision of the Federal Constitutional Court have recognised that the Constitution and respect for the Constitution only suits you when it is in your interest. It is nothing more than an absolute denial of the rule of law, whatever the constitution is and whoever brought it, which is the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It is not socialist, it is not democratic, it is the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and it must be respected as such. In all of this, you have violated this Constitution whenever you can, and I would especially like to point out that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has been violated when you have begun to extradite citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the SRJ, past the constitutionally regulated ban on the extradition of domestic citizens. So, not only were you prepared to do so, and that you then trampled the Constitution, but you further defiled this people by extraditing the former president of the Republic of Serbia and the SRJ to The Hague. In the end, it's not good, I repeat once again, for politics to be above the law, because it's not the rule of law, it's not our honor. Nor will it help us to have foreign investors, who are very interested in investing their money in our country, really come to us, because in a country where the right is trampled whenever someone is wanted or wanted, there is no legal certainty and there is no attractive environment for foreign capital, nor for the creation of a rule of law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-05-0.u24054	As MP Dragan Todorovic took advantage of the SPS parliamentary group's time, the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer reported for the word. Before concluding a principled search, I ask whether the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want the word or someone who did not exercise his right under Article 89. Rules of Procedure? No, they don't. ) If not, I conclude a principled search. In accordance with Article 136(3) of the Financial Regulation, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Joca Arsic, Jovan Todorovic and Rajko Baralic. Proposer representative, MP Cedomir Jovanovic, did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. The word is made by MP Joca Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-05-0.u24055	The Honored Presidency, fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, proposed by the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Selection of the President of the Republic, is provided for in Article 1. (new Article 4a added after Article 4.) that from the day of the election to the day of election for the President of the Republic, less than 30 or more than 90 days shall not be allowed to elapse. Our amendment, a group of SPS MPs, goes after it to be in Article 1. The draft law in new Article 4a, number "30" replaces the number "45", i.e. this time that has been shortened since the previously established time of 45 days at least, remains that way. So, as provided for in the old bill, and for the reason that it is unacceptable to shorten this deadline from 45 days to 30 days, since no action provided for by this law amending and supplementing the Law on the electing of the President, nor the Law on the Selection of MPs, whose provisions, as appropriate, apply to this proposed law, have been reduced, and we will come to a time-constraint between these scheduled deadlines and this deadline of at least 30 days foreseen for the elections. So our request is that this minimum deadline be 45 days, not 30 days, and 90 days at most, as foreseen by these amendments and additions to the law. I'm sorry no one has accepted this amendment. In this way, we will come into a time-constraint and we will be included between the scheduled deadlines necessary for the legitimate implementation of the elections and this given time-limit in the proposal for amending and supplementing the Law. I think it will damage participants in the elections for the President of the Republic, because they will not be able to meet everything necessary and foreseen by the Law in such short time, and they will not be able to carry out the campaign in one correct and legitimate way, especially as certain other restrictions are foreseen. Therefore, we feel that this deadline should remain for 45 days and we suggest that the congregation accept such a solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-05-0.u24056	Is there anyone else applying for participation in the debate on this amendment? MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-05-0.u24057	Dear fellow Members of Parliament, the amendment of fellow Members of Parliament is either a modest attempt or a desperate attempt, as you wish, to make legal assumptions for equal treatment of candidates for the second round of presidential elections, at least a little. In fact, this deadline, in itself, would not have been at all controversial if these changes had come at the beginning of the year when not only this condition could be determined, but also other conditions related to the election. However, now that new elections are expected to be called tonight or tomorrow and held in 30 days and a few days, it is logical that not all candidates will be able to be represented not only equally, but also have other problems. If we take every candidate's business and their chances of whether they can or won't be able to collect signatures, that's one side of the story. What is important is the fact that all candidates will not be equally represented in these elections. The fact is that those candidates who will be government candidates, in this DOS case, are being campaigned for them throughout the year, not only on state media, but also on this one. The opposition candidates don't have that option. Calling for formal reasons and an explanation that the rules for the presentation of presidential candidates will bring all candidates into an equal position, objectively does not correspond to reality, because past these so-called state-run media also exist in the private media that have been campaigning in the past months for DOS candidates. Of course, the campaign has not yielded results, but it speaks in itself about the conditions in which the campaign is held. We were aware and we had one situation that, practically, during the presidential elections and the Government of the Republic of Serbia began its campaign, formally, under the form of a government campaign and independent participation, but essentially, supporting one of the candidates, in this case it was about Mr. Labus. The fact is that the government then actively joined the campaign in its own way. She practically participated every day in what is called an election campaign. The other candidate had his own campaign, but the fact that the opposition representatives were absolutely disabled and had no opportunity to, in an adequate manner, in any media, electronic, or printed, present their programme in the way they considered it necessary. The fact is that 30 days is essentially small and the echo of this previous campaign is still ongoing, the echo of the campaign that favored DOS candidates. In such conditions, no other candidate, objectively, has any chance of doing anything in that part. That is why our fellow MPs have also proposed to amend this member of the law with an attempt to create at least minimum conditions for all candidates to be equal or at least candidates of the opposition to candidates of the authorities, who are already privileged.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-05-0.u24058	Before we continue the debate in particular, on amendments, I suggest we extend our working hours tonight to the end of the debate in particular, and then to hold a vote afterwards, to set today's voting day. I'm putting this motion to a vote. For 132 against 32, the abstentions were not voted 23, out of 187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal to extend our working hours and to hold a vote today. For information, we have eight more amendments. The People's MP Gordana Pop-Lazic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Proposer representative, MP Cedomir Jovanovic, did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-05-0.u24059	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Article 2. Proposal for a law amending Article 5 The law, another electoral authority is being established, and this is the electoral commission. In my amendment, I ask that it be decidently stated that the electoral commission of the electoral unit is working in a permanent and expanded composition. It may seem excessive to you, that it is clear, that it is understood, but we have experience that whenever something is not decidently written, it always leaves room for interpretation, as is the obligation to call elections once the election procedure has been launched, it leaves a lot of room to think - whether the National Assembly president had to call a new round of elections or if it can go suddenly! As we can see, we're still at a time when elections aren't scheduled. In addition, paragraph 1 provides that the electoral commission of the local self-government units organises technical preparations for the conduct of the elections, and we ask that, in accordance with the acts of the Republic of Election Commission, it organises technical preparations for the conduct of the elections, since the Republic Election Commission, the Law on the Selection of National MPs, has put it in jurisdiction, as it has been authorised and has appointed election committees. Your changes now go beyond the authority of the electoral commission of the local self-government unit. What if we had one and the other choices now; both parliamentary and presidential elections? The Law on the Election of the President of the Republic states that, in the event of both elections, the Law on the Selection of Members of Parliaments will apply. Who would name election committees in that case? And it may occur to us that until the parliamentary elections are called, we do not have a single session of the Assembly, or at least we do not have an amendment to the Law on selecting Members of Parliament. The amendment itself removes certain misunderstandings created by the draft law which has, in fact, the greatest powers from this authority to implement the selection procedure or recall the President of the Republic. Their composition and special treatment with a copy of the electoral list are specified, as already regulated by Articles 23 and 77. Law on election MPs. Article 23. The law on the election of MPs says: "The authority responsible for the conduct of the electoral list shall draw up a certified copy of the voter's list for each polling post, which shall be delivered to the Republic Election Commission within 24 hours. "We have also received a report from the Committee on Justice and Administration proposing the amendment, although the Committee on Justice and Administration cannot, on the basis of Article 144 at this time, submit such an amendment and we see that the proposer has adopted it, which means it becomes an integral part of the bill proposal, where they say, "between two rounds of voting, the Republic Election Commission is taking part in a copy of the vote, based on decisions delivered by municipal courts no later than 72 hours before the day of the re-vote." How will the Republic Election Commission do that if the voter lists are located in units of local self-government?- I'm sorry. That's just impossible! Therefore, the amendment was, not essential, but more technical, designed to remove certain doubts and facilitate the process itself, to clarify something that was unclear in this proposal; not some essential nature.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-05-0.u24060	Is there anyone else applying for this amendment? Here you are, MP Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-05-0.u24061	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I invite you to consider the amendment to Gordana Pop-Lazic a little bit further. I think it would be good to adopt her amendment, not to give too much authority to the municipal electoral commission here, not to add a new jurisdiction, and there is no instrument to control the way in which that authority is performed and, worst of all, there is no sanction if the municipal electoral commission refuses to do any work. A much better formulation is that it can propose the composition of the electoral committee and that the Republic Election Commission accepts it or does not accept it. She'll probably, almost always accept it, but if she doesn't, then she can name herself. Otherwise, you can get into a situation, some political party, for example Batic boycotts the presidential election, and he happens to have authority in some municipality and his ideological followers, if he has any, say - we will not do that job or say anything, shut up. Then how will the Republic Election Commission do so instead of the municipal electoral commission? There's no way the Republic Election Commission can do a job that doesn't do a municipal election commission. The municipal electoral commission does not correspond to anyone other than the SO; it does not respond to the Republic Parliament, it does not respond to the Republic Election Commission. Think about it a little bit because the amendment is very thoughtful. This little broader formulation from the Gordana Pop-Lazic amendment would allow a concrete problem to be resolved in practice. It has to be counted on that possibility. She can happen in practice, she can surprise. One municipality, she says: we won't, and where is your municipal election commission - we haven't chosen it yet. Why didn't you form election committees? We didn't make it. What are you doing here? There is a specific responsibility of RIK to the National Assembly here. In the electoral law, there are elements of criminal and criminal liability for certain illegal acts or inactions during the election procedure. For the municipal electoral commission, there is no sanctions, and one very important authority is given to it, one of the most important powers of the Republic Election Commission is transferred to the municipal electoral commission to form election committees. It can happen that she doesn't even form election committees according to the law, someone has to intervene, where is this possibility of intervention now? It would be very important to fix this member of the Law by accepting Amandamdana Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-05-0.u24062	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment, with the corrected text, the MPs Bojana Aleksic, Vladimir Dobrosavljevic, Djordje Mamula and Srdjan Petrovic submitted together. Proposer representative, MP Cedomir Jovanovic, did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Here's a word from the People's MP, George Mamula, as a representative of the Proposer.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-05-0.u24063	The amendment reads: "If at least half the total number of voters in the Republic did not go to the elections, a candidate was elected as President of the Republic, who was voted by more than a quarter of the total number of voters in the Republic." There is no reason why this amendment should not be accepted because, if it were to insist on this censorship provided for in the Law, we have something that is actually a non-democratic solution. In the Constitution, this condition is not set, so I think that with such a condition of 50% turnout, practically a plebiscite atmosphere is created, i.e. a referendum. As I discussed in principle, such as the code, changing the state border, it is required to come out more than half of the citizens in order to meet this change-of-limits requirement. I believe that in this way, however, it would be possible for the president, in this way chosen, to have the legitimacy to retain authority and to express himself most in the actuality of that function through the exercise of office, rather than just through the choice and setting of conditions, and therefore I call on you to accept this amendment because I believe that this is a democratic solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-05-0.u24064	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? Here you are, MP Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-05-0.u24065	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Mamula's amendment to the SRS is unacceptable because there would be lighter conditions here, if the amendment would be accepted, for the election of the President of the Republic, than for the election of the President of the municipality. You have passed the Law to local self-government - there is a special procedure for electing the president of the municipality. In the election of the president of the municipality, the formulations are similar to that of this law, so in the first round, it has to come out more than half, but the president can be elected if he gets more than half out. Compare a little with the Law of Local Self-Government. It is impossible, it is legally unsustainable to be stricter to elect a president of the municipality than to elect a president of the Republic, given the competences given the place and role in the political system. We must try to make the legal order both consistent and coherent. In this case, you wouldn't be. If you had also applied to change the Law on Local Self-Government, so that it was discussed to be a general condition that would apply to all in-coherent elections where the institution of in-coherent political functions is elected, and like this, the amendment would have no meaning.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-05-0.u24066	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic. Proposer representative, MP Cedomir Jovanovic, did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-05-0.u24067	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is an amendment to one member of the bill, but three new members are being established by that member in the very Law on the election of the President of the Republic. We had to write a brand-new article text to make everything clear. In the first part, the amendment was conditioned by RIK's behaviour in the second round, in a re-voted vote for the President of the Republic, when the authority responsible for statistical affairs first began to publish provisional results; but our findings suggest that these provisional results were published on the basis of faxes arriving from the Republic Statistics Office units located in municipalities or districts across Serbia. The first part of my amendment refers to the fact that RIK can publish provisional results after the voter's closure, but only on the basis of the report, which will be delivered by the competent Republic statistics authority, based on the minutes reached in the National Assembly, to the Republic Authority responsible for statistics affairs. More serious remarks, technically, are on Article 5z in which the legislator used for voters who voted for two or three terms; for the re-election he used in one position - the re-vote, in the second position - the second round of voting; in Article 5i he used even the words - the first round of elections, which is inadmissible legally-technically looking at how the text should read, or what kind of order should be carried out; and what is most important, what is the essence of this amendment, is the new Article 5i, which provides for what is being done if the elections are considered unsuccessful. We thought it was much nicer to write that it was realized that the President of the Republic had not been elected. In that case, it is so incorrectly written what is happening -- that whoever interprets the law, reading the legal norm, could conclude that the president of the National Assembly is no longer obliged to call any new elections at all, even though the Constitution obliges him to do so. If the Constitution obliges him to call elections for the President of the Republic, then I guess it is a minimum that should stand in the law what was proposed by the amendment; in the event that the President of the Republic is not elected, the President of the National Assembly shall call new elections and elections shall be held within 60 days of the date on which RIK has determined that the President of the Republic has not been elected. He wrote: "The president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia within 60 days of the day when the failed elections were held, decides on the calling, new elections for the president of the Republic. "When you give him the opportunity to decide on the calling, he can decide not to call. When you give him the opportunity to decide on the call, he can also think about when he will call, as in this case the current president of the Assembly is still thinking about when he will call the elections for the President of the Republic, and the law should be clear and tell him - in this and that time limit, elections must be held! This amendment improves the bill and needs to be seriously considered.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-05-0.u24068	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? Here you are, MP Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-05-0.u24069	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, in legal normation, there must also be certain rules that are prescribed in the style and culture of speech. When a legal norm begins, then it cannot in its first position have some arbitrary order of basic elements in the sentence structure. It can't look like what someone wants at some point or how they get away with writing. At least the first sentence must have that basic structure by starting with the subject and continuing with the foreword, object and other specifics. We now have in this article a caratically, from that aspect, a constitutional sentence. It reads: "The result of the election", so the object, for the President of the Republic, "Republic Election Commission", so the subject, "publishes," foreword, "in 96 hours from the time of the vote. These are the notes of the weather. Is that right?- I'm sorry. And you, Milka, know it! Now, what does he have to... how this first position must be - the Republic Election Commission. Why? Because this legal norm refers to this important state body. He's a subject here. One state body that has rights, responsibilities, obligations and responsibilities. Then it is much more logical that it stands - the Republic Election Commission, what it does, publishes the results of the election for the President of the Republic within 96 hours of the time of the end of the vote. There's something else that's nakaradno here. Article 5i says, "If at least half of the voters did not come out in the first election round." Where are the voters coming out? Be careful, it may be a colloquial exit, it may be a jargon expression, but it cannot be contained in the legal norm, because voters do not go out by law, voters vote by law. What are voters? Who are the voters? Citizens who have the right to vote. What are they doing? They're coming out. Where are they going? From the bus, from the tram, from the flats, from the houses? They don't mind. Well, one legal norm can't contain it. It may be illiterate for illiterate people, but in this country, it was traditionally considered all the way back to World War II, what legal norms would look like, so legal norms were involved alongside lawyers. You'd have to fix this. As for the fundamental legal objections, it refers to Article 5i, third position, which states that, within 60 days of the day when the failed elections were held, the President of the National Assembly decides to call a new election! Not within 60 days to decide, but within 60 days a new election term must be set! Well, will the president of the National Assembly give himself a little break, wait a month and leave just a month's worth of campaigns or we'll have a campaign for more than a month, it's already set up in this law as a matter of discretionary assessment by the president of the National Assembly! But to leave him 60 days to think about when, and then to have new legal deadlines in front of him regarding the election campaign, it's a little excessive, too much. Especially if you have in mind that after, accidentally, unfortunate, failed next presidential elections, the President of the National Assembly takes over the duties of the President of the Republic; and now you're giving him two months to think, and he can still stretch within the maximum legal deadline of the election campaign. Then it is not a competent authority to call new presidential elections, if these deadlines are not shorter, then the responsibility of the acting president of the Republic, held by the National Assembly, should be separated from the authority of the state authority, which rules out the presidential elections. Because, essentially, the president of the National Assembly, who wants to perform the function of the President of the Republic, fits the deadlines as long as possible. Then why give him such an opportunity in the law?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-05-0.u24070	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The Committee on Justice and Administration has submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Proposer representative, MP Cedomir Jovanovic, accepted this amendment. We have no opinion from the Legislative Committee. Is anyone answering for a word from the authorized participants in the debate on this amendment? There's a word from MP Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-05-0.u24071	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the Justice and Administration Committee is not in charge of submitting amendments, at least not at this stage. The Committee on Justice and Administration may, if one amendment is already adopted, with its amendment to bring the following legal members in line, but to submit the amendments on its own, it cannot! They submit the amendments on their own because they submitted this before any amendment was adopted. Right? This is where we have yet to decide before the debate. This was delivered before the hearing. That's legally impossible! Therefore, this amendment should be rejected for formal and legal reasons. It can't be a matter of voting, because if you put this to a vote, you'd break the Rules of Procedure again, and in one day twice to break it, it wouldn't make sense. It would be too much! That is why I suggest that this amendment be not adopted, neither subject to consideration, and that, if members agree with any amendments, then the Committee should play the role it is intended for in this Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-05-0.u24072	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Petar Petrovic, Dragan Markovic and Adam Urosevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Proposer representative, MP Cedomir Jovanovic, did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. Is this amendment being answered for, since the motionaries aren't here? Is anyone else answering for a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Joca Arsic, Rajko Baralic, Branko Ružic and Dragan Todorovic submitted the 3rd amendment. Proposer representative, MP Cedomir Jovanovic, did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. Any of the representatives of the amendment's motions come forward for a word? There is a word from MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-05-0.u24073	Ladies and gentlemen, the essence of our amendment concerns three things, which are proposed to Article 5z. In Article 3. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Elections of the President of the Republic, the first thing we wanted to point out is about Article 2, which according to the proposed text, says that the number of voters who voted is determined on the basis of the number of ballots in the ballot box. Our amendment comes down to changing the text of item 2 and says, "The number of voters who voted is determined on the basis of the number of round and signed voters in the voter list." You all know very well how the voting process is conducted; you know that in practice very often there is a fact or situation for some of the voters to go to the vote, to the polling post, to take the ballot and to take advantage of their right not to use the ballot. With such a solution, those voters who went to the polls, went to the polls, would have been kicked out of the register, had they voted and, their right to boycott or to the abstinence of the vote, but going to the elections -- yes, and for a vote -- no, would have been denied. That is why we believe that this amendment ensures that the total number of voters who voted will be included and that those voters who came to the polling post have taken over the ballot, and they have not used it or put it in the ballot box. We believe that this is a more logical solution and that it would be more in line with democratic principles that the number of voters who voted is being set out in a way proposed by our amendment. Furthermore, in the new Article 5z, we suggested that Article 5 be deleted, which says, "At the re-vote of the President of the Republic, a candidate who received the highest number of votes was elected no matter how many voters voted." So here is the essence of the proposed law on amendments and additions to the Law on the election of the President of the Republic, which abolishes the 50% censorship in the second election round. As I have already said and as countless times could be heard from this pay phone today, you all know very well, if in the second election round we abolish that 50% censorship, we will come against the provisions that regulate both the jurisdiction and authority of the President of the Republic, which are not to be ignored, although there have been some other opinions. And now, when you're in a position to decide or talk about these powers, you say that now they're not much of an authority, and until a few years ago you pointed out that these are too much authority, very broad, etc. It is also inconsistencies with the provision of the election of the President of the Republic with provisions on the manner of its impeachment, which, as you know, is very difficult to be realistic or feasible, because it is required that half or over half of the elected voters vote in favour of the recall of the President of the Republic, on the proposal of a qualified majority of the Assembly building. So, if we wanted to put these two things in order, we should put them in order at the same time, not one at a time, and yet, this, in my opinion, and in the opinion of the SPS, is one way of just allowing the election of the President of the Republic to be carried out, so - so, regardless of the fact that the elections, or possible impeachment of the President of the Republic, would be brought into synchronised. That's why we suggested that Article 5z be deleted. Also, in Article 5i, we proposed that, in the position of 2nd, which determines that the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia should decide within 60 days, from the day when the elections failed, according to the envisaged text and the envisaged solution, to call a new election for the President of the Republic. That's really illogical! So, of the free will of the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, does it depend on whether new elections will even be held for the President of the Republic?- I'm sorry. Well, I guess it makes sense that the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has an obligation to call new elections, not to decide on it, as if it were dependent on his will, so that he wants it to be a choice for the President of the Republic, or not; it is his will to decide and it is up to him to do these things! And finally, let me say one thing that is very important for the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which is that neither the Legislative Committee nor the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia received notice on the appointment of this session in time. It is not that urgent, but it is really unpopular that MPs, through public information means, receive information and calls for a session of the Republika Srpska Assembly, or for meetings of the Assembly Committees. God forbid it happens that in the next phase of democracy's development, in a negative sense, you start notifying us through commercials for certain semi-products or products, about the sessions of parliament. So, the essence of our amadenaman is to correct the law on the election of the President of the Republic. I hope you'll have the understanding for the solutions we've suggested.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-05-0.u24074	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-05-0.u24075	The fellow MPs, the Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group, submitted this amendment, or four MPs, and the amendment is in line with what we set out as a parliamentary group during the debate on this law in principle. In fact, we essentially tried here if it's possible to get some things back to normal for this member and possibly make some improvements. We believe that the number of voters cannot be determined only on the basis of the ballots contained in the box, i.e. which will be, as the proposal says, but that the number of voters who voted should be established on the basis of those who applied, signed and then voted, and that the right of each citizen to exercise his political act in a way whether or not he will vote. In addition, what is essential to this amendment is the proposal that is proposed to delete the position of the law that practically abolishs this censorship in the second round; namely, we are aware that this law is the expression of one political pragmatism and the consciousness of the DOS that in the existing conditions with the existing law their candidate cannot be elected president of the Republic of Serbia, that the obstacle is too high and that it is necessary to lower as far as possible to ensure the victory of DOS candidates in these elections. What's bad is that election rules change during the election cycle. This is essential, and this argument cannot be ignored or disproved. We will now have a situation for the president to choose this way, by this law with an extremely small number of votes, because you can think for yourself if the election campaign lasted throughout August and September, so he failed to provide a sufficient number of votes, what can be expected for this shorter campaign, the voter's release, and we will have the president, as previously said, with great powers, although I think they are neither large nor small, but rather as it says in the Constitution, and the president who will be elected with an extremely small number of votes. And another illogical thing about the election -- we'll have a president who can call off if most of the voters vote for it, and his election will be made possible by a simple election in a number simply that day at the vote. The third creates the authority and jobs of the president of the National Assembly: I have the impression that this provision of the bill on the election of the president of the Republic of Serbia DOS provides a possible vacuum and advance, I say, creates a situation for what can follow unless 50% of the voters in the first round come out and there is no second round at all. I mentioned that the fact that the campaign was run for two months, so 50% and some voters came out again in the first round, gives me the right to make one such conclusion. What's bad is I think it's a bad provision for the president of the National Assembly to decide to call a new election! It should stand, and our fellow Socialist MPs, have suggested that it stand as in the Constitution -- "issing elections", because it can happen very likely that the first round will fail and then the president of the National Assembly decides on new elections. He can decide not to call new elections, and thus the president of the National Assembly will indirectly inaugurate himself into the president of the Republic of Serbia. I do not believe that this is something that the Republic of Serbia can use in this way and can be seen as contributing to the calming of political passions in Serbia. That is why fellow MPs have proposed this amendment, pending acceptance.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-05-0.u24076	The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Joca Arsic, Jovan Todorovic and Rajko Baralic. Proposer representative, MP Cedomir Jovanovic, did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. The word has a representative of the amendment's applicants, MP Joca Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-05-0.u24077	Dear colleagues and fellow Members, as the president said a group of Socialist Party MPs proposed an amendment to Article 5. - new Article 13a; in Article 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law to delete the position of Article 2a, and, also, to delete the words "legal 2" in the attitude of the 3rd of the same member. To make it clearer to the general public: this proposed solution, i.e. the new Article 13a, provides for the funding of elections and election campaigns of candidates for the President of the Republic to provide the funds of a thousand average net earnings paid in the economy of the Republic of Serbia in the month preceding the month in which elections were called and for which official data were published. Article 2 provides that, in the case of failed elections, what is arising from Article 5i, for the financing of elections and election campaigns of candidates for the President of the Republic, there is an amount of 500 average net earnings paid in the economy of the Republic of Serbia in the month preceding the month in which elections have been called, for which official data have been published. As you can see, the proposed solution in paragraph 2 provides that, in the event of a failed election, the next election campaign provides for funds that are half of the projected funds in the previous election cycle. We don't think that this is correct, that this is how they put themselves in an unequal position for candidates in the re-elections, or re-elections, and the argument given, that this costs, it's not true. Let me remind you, for 11 candidates, in the elections that were held in the first and second rounds, only about 5.5 million dinars were spent to secure the signature, minimum for the candidates required. So for 11 candidates, at least 10,000 times 50 dinars is a minimum of 5.5 million dinars, and they total won for their budget campaign, if 11 candidates per million dinars are taken, 11 million dinars. So, at least half of them had to go back to the Republic of Serbia's budget. The figure is higher, because many of these candidates, who have been legitimately and legally declared and achieved their candidacy, have collected more than 10,000 signatures and thus invested in the state register and the budget more than that, and here they are expected to get, if there are 10 candidates again, a total of half of these funds needed just to collect signatures. If someone wanted to save money and cut costs, it could have been predicted by this law that this tax was not paid for an overture of signatures, which was once far less, and now before these elections was raised to 50 dinars, thus saving funds and allowing the election to be made in a better way and making it possible to campaign. This is just one minimum piece, and you know what kind of data is published, how much the election cost individual candidates. This is the amount of money needed for a single decent campaign, and I think that according to this solution provided for by the Law on Amendments and Supplements, at least when it comes to this cycle of re-election, and even when it comes to the first one, they are minimal, and when it comes to this second one they are drastically reduced and insufficient for an equal match in the elections in the case of failed elections, as provided for by this bill. Also, this amendment in our last position is in agreement with the previous: if this solution is adopted, then this part in the last position, or Article 2 of this article, should be deleted. This amendment is then going to make the game even and not cost the state much. I just want to say what total costs are for election and election payments: and you know that they were paid by 1,300 dinars per member of the election board and that 1,500 were given to presidents and deputies, multiplied by 8000 and something, and by 20, how many representatives, members of election committees and parties; In the first round it must have cost at least 230 million dinars....
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-05-0.u24078	I'm warning you, time's over.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-05-0.u24079	.... This 11 million, and that's totally minimal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-05-0.u24080	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Petar Petrovic, Dragan Markovic, Adam Urosevic and Milos Lukic. The proposer's representative did not accept this amendment, and neither did the Justice and Administration Committee. Is anyone applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Vukic. Proposer representative, MP Cedomir Jovanovic, did not accept the amendment. The Justice and Administration Committee has not accepted the amendment. Here's a word from the People's Parliament, Alexander Vucic, the applicant for the amendment to Article 5. It's a bill of law.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-05-0.u24081	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to ask for some attention, and also for viewers to know that Serbia's citizens know that, in part, the clerical atmosphere and what your great, great mood is because of the fact that after two years of distracting and harassing the people with false conflicts between Djindjic and Kostunica, that you have finally made peace again today and that you love each other again as you once loved each other. That is why Serbia's citizens will show trust to those who are equally against each other. In this amendment, I proposed that item 2 be deleted, saying: "In the event of unsuccessful elections, in the re-election procedure for the President of the Republic to finance the election campaign of candidates for the President of the Republic, the funds for 500 average net earnings paid in the economy of the Republic of Serbia are provided." That's exactly twice what you get, unless it's about re-election. That's what I asked, because it's a violation of the Constitution of guaranteed rights and of those who run for president of the Republic of Serbia, that they have equal conditions, that they have objectively as much as possible the same conditions. The question is, how is it that someone who is now running, and for example not in the first round of elections, can have the same treatment as those who ran in the first round of elections? At the same time, the question arises, if that's the money you get, enough just to cover the cost of certification in court and for nothing else, then let's see what we can run these election campaigns from? Our presidential candidate, even in the first election round, had no pictures of 20h10m as Vojislav Kostunica and Zoran Djindjic's candidate, Miroljub Labus; he didn't have posters, posters; he didn't have those expensive videos; he didn't have anything else. We don't and we can't find that money. Of what to finance the campaign, how and how can those who are serious opponents to the regime stand up to hundreds of videos broadcast on all televisions, so let's say, one day, four days before elections, or on the day of election silence, only on TV Pink broadcast 60 Miroljub Labus videos! How come it's covered? Of what costs? And let's not talk about how those other people who have even less, if it's the same number of candidates. It would be good for you, Madam President of the National Assembly, to give champagne here and champagne to your MPs. I see they're looking forward to getting back together, making out here in front of the cameras, not just giving joint statements. We don't mind people and citizens of Serbia seeing that there is no difference between Zoran Djindjic and Vojislav Kostunica, that the people of Serbia see that the only alternative to the Serbian regime...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-05-0.u24082	Please return to the agenda, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-05-0.u24083	It's interesting to me, Madam President, how you can see you're talking to me about the subject, and I'm talking about the presidential election, about this amendment. You do not remind this cheerful society here, which is even more joyful than in the afternoon. You probably know the reasons why that is. I would also like to ask you, as well as other MPs, to seriously consider this proposal and this amendment, for the simple reason why presidential candidates and those who support presidential candidates are being put in an unequal position. I have one more thing to say: there is one demagogue answer. That demagogue response could be - yes, but those 500 salaries are taken from the citizens of Serbia! That could be the answer. There is another counter-response to that answer, which means - and what we have done so far and why Serbian citizens are living harder, why there is no bread in Serbia, many do not have bread to eat, many do not have to pay for electricity and many live harder and harder! What little they had, they're spending now and now they've spent it. I call on you not to use such a kind of demagogue reason for these purposes, but to really bring all presidential candidates into an equal position; to have objectively equal conditions and to have, as far as possible, financial resources to make videos, to make some kind of assistance and to present their policies of programmes. If they are unable to do so, then again the single candidate of the government, and whether it was Vojislav Kostunica or Dragoljub Micunovic or some third, I don't know, Velimir Ilic, will have a huge advantage, but as far as the media is concerned. Of course, he'll lose anyway. But in order for everything to be clear in the first election round to be won by presidential candidate Dr Vojislav Seselj, the opposition presidential candidate, it is necessary to allow for equal conditions. When you do, then the people will really be able to choose, then the people will really be able to choose the best possible solution, the best possible alternative to this regime. I once again congratulate you on your re-established marriage...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-05-0.u24084	I'm warning you, Mr. Wolf, I've been waiting for you to finish your thought.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-05-0.u24085	... Have a good time celebrating it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-05-0.u24086	Is there any more complaints about this amendment? Yeah. Here you are, MP Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-05-0.u24087	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the legislator would have to give up Article 5, because the DOS parliamentary group - Serbia's Reform, whether you call yourself that, cannot explain why one amount of campaign funding is set for the first election tour, and for the re-election tour half the amount! Why? What's the argument? It may occur that the re-elections in the second round show candidates who did not participate at all in the first. Why would they get less money here? These two electoral tours must be equal by all means! If you don't think they should be even, why didn't you cut the number of signatures, instead of 10,000 to 5,000, and there's logic, and your quasi - logic?- I'm sorry. It doesn't make any sense. It has to be even. I don't mind. This isn't any money, you can end this completely. I'm against one unprincipled member of the law that makes the unauthorized selection between one and the other election tour, when these two electoral tours must, by all means, be equal, absolutely. Secondly, I need to inform you about this member of the law, to suggest to you, to consider, to end the full funding of the election campaign. There was a major crime in the last election tour; six individuals committed a crime of fraud and a misdemeanor, thus obtaining themselves a status for which they did not meet the conditions! These people are: Branislav Ivkovic, Borislav Pelevic, Nebojsa Pavkovic, Tomislav Lalosevic, Dragan Radenović and Vuk Obradovic. They committed a crime of fraud and a felony of counterfeiting. RIK members committed a crime of abuse of their official position and made it possible, based on counterfeits and fraud, to receive a million dinars of state money. Six of them, in total, thus, illegally, received counterfeits and frauds by 6 million dinars. Why doesn't the D.A. file a criminal complaint? It has been proven that forgeries are at stake, there is a police report, there are our timely complaints and objections - and nothing to anyone. It's a huge criminal act. Look, for a common thief who steals 6 million dinars, they say 7, 8, maybe 10 years in prison, maybe more! Mr. Sabic, you're a lawyer -- for five million dinars, it's being treated like a robbery, it can be more than 10 years in prison; here you have a handful of people who've stolen six million dinars by fraud and forgeries. At least stop the thefts in the future. You have no good will to prevent - your interest is to cloud the election campaign; to insert artificial candidates with falsified documentation and receive a million dinars! Who was that money stolen directly from, kidnapped? Those candidates who met the conditions, because those five who met the conditions wouldn't get a million, but two million and something. That money was stolen directly from them! It's state money, but strictly intended, intended for certain purposes. Those who used fraud and forgeries also participated in the division of the money. It is the same as when you share pensions; so pay your pensions to those who meet all the conditions for pensions and still set out one large group of people, and you also share pensions with them, and the total pension mass, instead of focusing on pensioners, concentrate on pensioners and frauds! Here's a cash mass that the state has singled out for the election, for the financing of pre-election campaign, for regular candidates, used for both regular candidates and fraud! It's legally unbearable!
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-05-0.u24088	Is there more applications for this amendment? (Dejan Michaels: Final word.) That was in principle debate. You didn't take advantage of the second call as head of the parliamentary group. Is that what you mean? It's over, this is now a debate in detail. Article 138. The Rules of Procedure reads: "When the draft law is completed in detail, the right to the final word shall be given by the Proposer, or by an authorised representative of the Proposer." As head of the parliamentary group, in the principle debate you have the right to report twice or once in 20 minutes. Then about the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-05-0.u24089	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens, this amendment certainly is good and acceptable because it does not need to be uneven, because the re-elections are one new cycle of elections and can run for new candidates. I don't see why that amount would be reduced. This is pure equality for the sake of it, and there's absolutely no problem here. These amendments and additions to the law, such as this member of the proposal, should enable democratic institutions in Serbia to be built on an equal principle, not to have division and inequality in two electoral circles. We have warned before the elections that the old electoral law should also enable these amendments and the adoption of a new law, that the electoral process takes place uninterrupted and contribute to the construction of democratic institutions. Such members, contrary to the principle of equality, are simply not good at the text of the law. We believe that if this bill is not amended - we have a lot of amendments, and if these amendments are not adopted - it will not be acceptable because it will not essentially make a change in relation to the existing law, but will only prevent the election cycle from ending the election process as necessary to stabilise opportunities in Serbia. The DSS MPs will vote in principle for this law. Depending on the vote on the amendments, we, along with all these arguments that we have presented so far and on this amendment - means that we should allow the smooth completion of the electoral process and the construction of democratic institutions - to decide how to vote at the end of the debate on the law in general. Our decision will, above all, be governed by the need for Serbian citizens to get the law as they are, which will allow the elections to be called, when they are called - in the weather, to finally be implemented and to be completed, and not to be called under the law that will not allow this election process to end and that will only deepen the political crisis and lead us to an even worse situation, although we know that stability is the most needed at this time.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-05-0.u24090	Since we have completed the examination of the draft law in particular, I ask if the proposing representative, Mr Cedomir Jovanovic, wants a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-05-0.u24091	Ms. Micic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am obliged to comment briefly on what marked today's debate and everything that went into play and what challenged the amendment and addition of the Law on the election of the President of the Republic. I think that all those who have critically acted under this Bill on the Election of the President of the Republic have forgotten that this law is not passed for a specific individual who has the intention or ambition to run for President of the Republic, but that this law is adopted in order to actually only develop those constitutional categories and fully define a procedure that will fill the space set out in the Constitution as a space for the institution of the President of the Republic. The law on the election of the President of the Republic, which was in force until these amendments and the addition of the Law, was the Law that was applied in 1990, both in 1992 and 1997. During these election cycles, the candidates of many parties competed, but in no particular case did any of the participants in the election cycle ask for 50% of the census to be abolished in the second round. All the objections that were made were objections concerning the way elections were conducted and organised, not the way these elections were normised. In view of constitutional constraints, it is unacceptable for our parliamentary group to lift 50% of the price or accept that the President of the Republic chooses 25% of the number of citizens who have gone to the elections. It is an unacceptable alibi for that kind of political fear and unacceptable support for that kind of political ambition that has no cover. We are surprised that representatives of the presidential candidate who received two million votes in the second election round are now post-pooly insisting on such a derrogation of the electoral system as it would have actually been if the norm had been accepted by which the President of the Republic would have chosen one vote over half of those who went to the polls that day! You really can't find such a thing in modern electoral legislation! What we are doing is actually a way towards a modern society that can, among other things, be achieved through the amendment of the Law on the election of the President of the Republic. A 50% cenzus exists in Russia, a 40% censorship exists in Ireland. Does anyone claim that the emphasis of censorship in the first election round is actually a non-democratic act? No, it is a direct consequence of a very precise and defined procedure that protects the President of the Republic and powers of the President of the Republic! Compare only the status of the president of the Republic of Serbia and the status of president of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia: both are elected in direct elections; citizens vote for them; the president of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, MPs in the Council of Citizens and the Greater Republic are relieved of the duties of two-thirds of the majority. In the Republic Parliament, such a thing is impossible, because, besides the two-thirds majority, 50% of citizens with voting rights are required to support the initiative in the referendum. If such a thing is not supported in the referendum, even from 49% out, the Republic Parliament will disband! And too expensive a price and it's unacceptable for us. Those who do not see changes and additions to the Law that we insist on Serbia's willingness to get a president, but are asking us here in Parliament to declare a specific person for the President of the Republic, cannot come across such co-operation, nor can they get support for that kind of thinking. The president of Serbia is elected in the elections, elected by citizens, who are confident that he will win the elections, let him participate, and whoever does not have that confidence but expects us to encourage him for such a thing, he was wrong because he is not a good person for the first man of this Republic. So, we insist on these changes and additions, they are in line with the OSCE recommendations, they are fully in that concept that must be the concept of a transition society that seeks a modern and orderly democratic society and, finally, they are also the direct consequence of the failed election process of September. Criticised changes in financial resources that the state sets aside for presidential candidates, i.e. for their campaigns, have a basis in one part. It is true that someone can highlight the objection and say that his right is less than the right of candidates who competed in the first election cycle - but it is unacceptable for us that those who directly advocated the boycott today are asking us to take money from the citizens of Serbia and finance their new political adventure! If they want to play with Serbia, let them pay for it themselves, we will not participate. This applies to all those who directly advocated the boycott and, this refers to those who are finally after a convincing election success in the second round today concerned about what will happen because there is, namely, censorship in the first. By the way, without censorship and without criteria, we here in Parliament need to open the door to a man who will have absolute power and who will not answer to anyone. So, we stand entirely behind these amendments, we accept the amendments that we have declared at the Justice and Management Committee session, but we do not accept everything that is said as criticism, because it is not really a criticism, but in our opinion, fear and uncertainty about the upcoming elections, which will certainly be organised and that must be organised.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-05-0.u24092	No one's mentioned, no name, no MP's group, you have no right! I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bills of Law in fact and in particular, we move on to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the election of the President of the Republic in principle. I ask the Members of Parliament to plead with the vote. For 146, against 28, the abstentions did not vote 15, out of 189 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. I would like to put the amendments tabled together by MPs Joca Arsic, Jovan Todorovic and Rajko Baralic. The representatives of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted this amendment. For 28, against 114 abstentions, there were no 46 votes, out of 188 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposed amendment. I would like to put the amendment tabled by Parliament MP Gordana Pop-Lazic on Article 2. The representatives of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted this amendment. For one, against 109 abstentions, two did not vote 77, out of 189 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting on the vote of amendments submitted jointly to Article 3 by MPs Bojana Alexic, Vladimir Dobrosavljevic, Djordje Mamula and Srdjan Petrovic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. For 53, against 92, there were three abstentions, no 39 votes, out of 187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic to article 3. The representatives of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted this amendment. For 30, against 110, the abstentions, were not voted 50, out of 190 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposed amendment. I am putting on the vote of the amendments tabled by the Committee on Justice and Administration on Article 3 and adopted by the proposing representative. For 148, against 28, the abstentions were not voted 14 out of 190 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment to Article 3 submitted by the Committee on Justice and Administration. I would like to put the amendments tabled together by MPs Petar Petrovic, Dragan Markovic and Adam Urosevic. The representatives of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted this amendment. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I would like to put the amendments tabled together by MPs Joca Arsic, Rajko Baralic, Branko Ružic and Dragan Todorovic. The representatives of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted this amendment. For 30, against 114 abstentions, there were no 46 votes, out of 190 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Joca Arsic, Jovan Todorovic and Rajko Baralic. Proposer representative, MP Cedomir Jovanovic, did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 29, against 110, the abstentioned, did not vote 51, out of 190 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Petar Petrovic, Dragan Markovic, Adam Urosevic and Milos Lukic. Proposer representative, MP Cedomir Jovanovic, did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 116, a abstentioned one, was not voted 72, out of a total of 190 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Vukic. Proposer representative, MP Cedomir Jovanovic, did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 69, against 111, a abstentioned one, did not vote 8 out of 189 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the election of the President of the Republic, in general. I ask the Members of Parliament to plead with the vote. I conclude the vote: 110, against 28, 40 abstentions, did not vote 9, out of 187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote, has passed a bill on amendments and amendments to the Law on the election of the President of the Republic. Goodbye.
