ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-13-0.u21435	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to ask the President of the National Assembly or the one he replaces to request a statement from the People's Movement "Resistance": are they making a joke with His Holiness the patriarch of Serbia, Mr. Paul. If that is true, if the newspaper articles are true, that the highest spiritual and moral authority of the Serbian people is insulted in such a way as it seems in comics where the main figure of Patriarch is Serbian, Mr. Paul, I suggest we never invite anyone from the People's Movement "Resistance" to the National Assembly session again.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-13-0.u21436	Except that MP Tomislav Nikolic violated the Rules of Procedure without quoting which provision of the Rules of Procedure is called on, secondly, the MP knows very well that the right to invite guests to the National Assembly is the discretionary right of the President of the National Assembly and that the National Assembly cannot decide. We're continuing our work on the agenda. We move to the 9th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Period and Cartaster and the Law on Immobilities You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted by MPs on the bill: Miomir Ilic, Milutin Svetkovic, Zoran M. Nikolic and Petar Cvetkovic; Hranislav Peric, Joca Arsic; Rade Bajic, Stevan Gudurić and Rade Bajic; Slobodan Pavlovic, Ljubomir Mucic, Branko Pavlovic, Srdjan Sikimic and Radojko Petric, as well as the Government of the Republic of Serbia. National MPs Dragan Jovanovic and Zivanko Radovanchev withdrew their amendments to Article 48. It's a bill of law. You have received reports from the Committee on Urbanism and Construction and the Legislative Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. At the session of the Legislative Committee, the opinion was drawn up by MP Zoran D. Nikolic, a member of this committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask all presidents, vice-presidents or parliamentary groups, to deliver to the Secretary of the Assembly a series of registered MPs who have applied for a word in the debate in principle and to do so as soon as possible so as to make a final list and a series of registered speakers, and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I'm opening a principled search. Does the proposalor's representative, Professor Dragoslav Šumarac, Minister of Urbanism and Building, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Dragoslav Šumarac.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-13-0.u21437	Dear Madam Vice-President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the state of public immovableity record in Serbia is disastrous. All the parts of the city, the neighborhoods, they're not listed. As an example, we can cite, for example, the New Belgrade, which was introduced as agricultural land in the books. The main reason for this is, above all, the rule of communism over the past 50 years. On the eve of World War II, Serbia had arranged books on public records, and the reason for that was that then the Government and above all the Ministry of Finance wanted to know who owned what the house had, how much land it had, how much business space it had, to charge as much taxes as possible. As I was saying, after World War II, most of all thanks to the nationalization that was done with other abductions, there was a general chaos. This situation, or this chaos, is this: we have a situation that 23% of the territory of the Republic is covered by land books. It's mostly Vojvodina, or the northern part of Serbia. However, these books are not up - to - date. An example of that is, just like I said, New Belgrade. Besides the land books, there's a land cadastre. The land cadastre is set up in all catastrian municipalities in Serbia. There's over 5,800 of them. However, the land cadastre is not property-law records, unlike land books. In addition to the land catastra, we also have an immovableity cadastre, which was established by the 1992 law and is set up on 9% of the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Where it is set up, it removes, practically, other kinds of records. He was meant to, he has now, become a unique record. He's not up-to-date; unfortunately, he's not up-to-date for many reasons. One of them is that, for example, these diameters that have been made for the purposes of making regulation or urban plans are not updated in catastrian administrations. One of the basic reasons why the immovableity cadastre has not been updated is that in the past period, especially in the last 10 years, we have had a large number of illegally erected objects. For this reason, the Government has also proposed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Crossing and Catastrophe and Immobilization Rights. What is fundamental is to introduce private practice into this area. It is one of the reform steps that has been taken on the proposal, first of all, of the Republic Geodesy Institute and the Government. All business dealing with the catastra is now divided into two groups. The first ones are so-called. professional business, relating to the diameter, to the change of pitch boundaries, which will actually be done by geodetic enterprises, which will be established and which can therefore be private enterprises under certain conditions, that they have a number of employees with appropriate diplomas, and that they will be licensed by the Republic of Geodetic Institute, now under this law. The second part is administrative jobs that remain in the Republic Geodetic Institute, which is actually the formation and modernisation of the operative himself. This is one of the basic and important steps, which, hopefully, with your help, we will be able to achieve here, so to introduce private practice. This would first and foremost allow for the necessary competition to be achieved, to bring down prices, first and foremost to do the work on the ground, and thus to speed up what the Government of the Republic of Serbia has drawn for itself; as you know, the Government has formed one commission and the Commission is Prime Minister as soon as possible to update all facilities and all immovableities in Serbia, as soon as possible. One of the basic steps is the adoption of this law. So the law is really a professional thing, and I'd like you to support us in that.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-13-0.u21438	Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Do the MPs who issued an opinion on the committees want a word? No, I don't. ) Do the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? The word has been issued by MP Milutin Salesovic, an authorised representative of the Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-13-0.u21439	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Mr. Minister, one of the main tasks of a serious state is that within the limits of its territory it has an up-to-date record of immovableities and their basis for acquisition, whether owned by the state itself, legal or natural person. The reasons for such a starting base are uninterrupted legal processes in the process of inheriting, buying and selling immovable property, building facilities, etc., whether in the interest of an individual or in the interest of the state. It can be, and in most cases it is, a stumbling block for the above mentioned jobs. The argument in favour of all this is particularly evident when foreign investors appear and the first problem is an unresolved property-legal relationship, because it's said -- you know, we're actually the right owners, but if that immovableity is officially guided by it and that's what we're going to update for that time, and then we're going to be able to enable you to invest without any interference. Such an unscheduled state has left us with an ex-government, which, looking at the situation in catastrian operatives, approached us as if everything was as arranged and arranged as possible. The reason for this approach to changes and additions to the Law on State Border and Catastrian Law and the registration of fixed property rights is that the question arises whether we should decide on how and how to put an unscheduled state in catastrian operations into equality with the real, or field or field data, or, secondly, to give the Democratic Party of Serbia an opinion on the bill itself. As for the first question, unfortunately, not much has been done in these changes and proposals. The basic indication of the state of the records problem should be given on the immovable property and rights on them. Let me remind you, with the original diameter started in 1932 in the state of Serbia, a land cadastre was built. Also, a land book has been established, which, with its land-book cartridges, represents the only legally valid evidence of ownership of some immovable property. The job in Serbia's territory was done for four years, along with public data-review of land diameters, so in Serbia last 30 years there was a single system of records and a way of enrolling ownership over some immovableity. Today's state of affairs in the state of Serbia as regards the catastra and the way of enrolling immovable property in municipalities is as follows: somewhere there is a land cadastre and an immovableity cadastre, somewhere a cadastre of land and land books; somewhere there is a cadastar of land and a cadastre of immovableity and a Tapi system, and somewhere just a cadastre of land. Also, the condition of the water catastra means electrical installation, telecommunications installations, plumbing, sewers, etc. is also in poor condition. All of this shows that the basic problem is how to obtain unique information on immovableities, of course, and the rights to these immovableities. How to convince a foreign investor again, who wants to invest his capital in two different places in Serbia, that one immovableity is driven to one, and the immovableity in another municipality in quite another way. Will a dose of doubt appear in a stranger where and why he invests his money? If we have come to work in a proper and adequate way to reform each segment of life, then we should not give up. As the attached amendment and addition of the Law shows that the current management of the Institute, i.e. the state, has defined that the creation of a real estate catastra as a single record, then the problem itself should have been approached more thoroughly, which means: 1. To make an analysis of the existing situation in the immovableity cadasar services, both cadastrian bases, geodetic bases, and real estate records. 2. Set really needed time to make a catastrophe of immovableity. 3. Based on technology, which is perfected from day to day, to be defined as the most practical software solution that will suit our condition. In the first instance, analogue cadastral bases need to be translated from vector to digital form, and the second thing is to determine how to record data on immovableities, the basis of the acquisition of rights on them, etc. 4. It is necessary to carry out a public assessment of the immovableities and rights of those immovableities. The proposal itself to amend and supplement the Law has not addressed the essential issue at any moment, and this is the way in which the current data on immovableities is recorded and how this problem is solved in a quick and quality way. The proposal cited reasons for the adoption of the law, which is in line with the initial reforms, as follows: "Employments, other organisations and actions (geodetic organisations) to carry out all level-based trades on the market with the Republic Geodetic Institute, thereby afirming private geodetic practices and at the same time creating conditions for the work of the geodetic organisation to be involved in the creation of a catastra of immovableity and waterways". However, at the very beginning of the amendments and the addition of the Law in Article 2 and Article 7 was deafened or, simply put, jumped into his stomach and the Republic Geodetic Institute absorbed as the only possible entity in the performance of works financed from the budget of the Republic of Serbia. These works are the development of the main project and the production of technical documentation. It is necessary to put in the same position as the Republic Institute and the geodetic organisation, regardless of who is the investor of the aforementioned works. There are a lot of public enterprises, institutions, etc. which was formed by the Government, so the jobs financed from the Serbian budget are not carried out by these institutions but through the procedure of public competition and the collection of written offers, the one most favourable to the criteria and references set. So in this case, about doing geodetic work, it should be done. That way, the government can save money, and according to the bill, the Republic Institute assesses the price of the job and that's the end. Now the question is, is that a real price for these jobs? An example of this is the existence of the Republic Road Directorate, which was formed for the construction and maintenance of highways and highways, and yet, in some cases, the construction is done by another person, if it is more favourable in the tender. In Article 4, the Director of the Republic Institute places himself in a position to determine which person will exercise supervision and thus puts the investor in another plan. Everywhere in the world, an investor determines control of any business. This way, someone who has no contact with the investor determines who will monitor whether the money invested in these jobs and spent. In Article 40, the Director of the Republic Institute shall, as an entity, be put first. When you look at a complete member you see that it actually refers to things of state interest, such as. the state map, the way the geodetic organizations work. As the bill said - that the equality of the geodetic institution and geodetic organisations should be strengthened, a sublegal act should be passed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and on a proposal from the Republic of Geodetic Institute. In Article 48. The proposal for a law is based on Article 136a, which indicates that public data on real estate and rights will not be exposed to public data, but will be educated on the basis of data from land cadastres. Please listen carefully to what this means. This means that we confirm the unscheduled condition of the soil cataster in the building of the immovableity. So what we have now is just a picture, so if the object on the ground is run as a business facility, for its own purpose, it's listed in a new record, for example. as residential, because in the cataster all the buildings are built, regardless of their true purpose... (President: 10 minutes 30 seconds. )......................................................................................................... It's like living water. The reason for this approach is (quote the Proposer as explained): "... A faster and cheaper building of a catastra of immovableity in the Republic of Serbia by simplifying the process of building a straggler of immovableity wherever there are conditions for this, without distorting the general concept, or questioning the real rights of immovable property." What we really want now -- that we have finally a right and an up-to-date state of immovableity or that... (President: 11 minutes. )......................................................................................................... We're copying from the land cadastre to the speed of making all of this. (President: You want a second time.) Here you go. ) According to Article 136a, there is only a conversion of data from one way to another, and the big question is whether the reduction of funding is due to the quality of the data. I've listed members 2, 4, 7, 40 and 48. The proposal for this law is simply because they are contrary to the reasons given by the proposings in this reasoning. Article 2(3) and Article 7(2) The bill is favoured by the Republic Geodetic Institute, which is contrary to the fundamental basis of this amendment. In Article 48, or 136a of the proposal, it may, but I'm not sure, be gained in the quantity and in the savings in the financial sphere, but the quality is lagging behind. In my opinion, this bill should put quality first. It is necessary to look at the complete situation and the state of reconstruction of the diameters, which are in the design phase. Most of the reconstruction of the diameter is happening in the areas of the cities. In some cities, the job has been done for ten years, and the percentage of work is 30. The amendments to the law do not regulate the proper way in which the self-recovery of the diameter and completion will be done. The biggest problem is created in city building land, where the land's real estate price is the largest. That's why I'm going back to Article 136a, which excludes exposure to the public insight of this data, in this case, to restore the diameter, because I repeat that it is the only and the right way for one owner to know about his immovableity of new data and their method of recording. It is a longer job by time of production, but exposure to public insight is given much, much more high-quality and more up-to-date data, so this Article 136 needs to be downloaded in order to make real sense of the change itself. If we are already going to privatization and affirmation of the private sector of every segment of life, which is the basis of reform, then the very proposal for changes and additions in this sphere should be drawn up in that direction. The Democratic Party of Serbia will support such a law in principle, but after the debate in particular, we will decide whether we will support the law in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-13-0.u21440	Do any of the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? Here's a word from MP Zarko Obradovic, representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-13-0.u21441	Dear Presidency, honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, we have before us a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on State measure and cadastre and the enrolment of the right to real estate, which has been sent to us by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. On the basis of an insight into the content of this bill, the SPS parliamentary group considers that this bill is not, by its content, highly reformable, because the earlier reforms and laws that were implemented, or passed, also had the same and similar objectives, but the results were missing from, above all, financial reasons; there were others. So let me remind you as soon as possible of what happened on this plan in the previous period, and may also have meaning for this bill, but also future reforms of the catastra of immovableity in the Republic of Serbia, or the adoption of new laws in this area. The reform of Serbia's fixed-state catastra, which has been for decades and decades, has always aimed at carrying out the state diameter of the entire territory in the new coordination system of measures and at making reliable and unique records of immovableity. The implementation of this objective took place through three basic reform tasks, i.e. through the continued adoption of appropriate rules for the establishment of a single immobilisation record, the finding of an optimal organisation of geodetic services and the adoption of long-term and medium-term plans and programmes of the national diameter and catastra. As far as the regulations are concerned, it should be said that in 1976 the Council of the Republic of Serbia considered the situation, the problems and the records of the immovableity of the Republic of Serbia and the territory of the Republic of Serbia found that the records of the immovableity of the waters in land books, the books of the deed and the cadastral operanta of the land, that the records of each other were not in agreement, that therefore it was necessary to remove the inaccuracies and their disagreements and that of the 5,834 catastrian municipalities in 4,727 municipalities of the cadastrian book, and no other. In 1985, the Federal Executive and Republic Executive Council adopted views on the common foundations and records of real estate and real estate rights. According to these views, the Serbian Parliament in 1988 passed the Law on the Prime Minister and the Cataster and the registration of the right to immovable property, which prescribes the establishment of a system of single immobilisation and the right to real estate. After four years of application, certain shortcomings were observed in the proposed solutions, so the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia adopted a new Law on State Premoir and Cataster and the registration of the right to immovable property, which is now in force and which has been repeated and amended several times. In the amendments and additions to the laws that we are considering today, there is no proposal to change the organisation of the geodetic service, which must be set as a very important task in the coming period, especially the fact that Serbia has had different results in the exercise of the state diameter, as a consequence of such organisation. The most significant activity of the geodetic profession by 1998 was the restoration of the diameter, the production of the land cadastre and their maintenance. In central Serbia alone, around 1,750 catastrian municipalities were covered with about 1,970,000 hectares. After the adoption of the current Law, the building of a building block, which has so far been built in some 350 catastrian municipalities, is under way to create a catastra of immovableity around 519 catastrian municipalities. Finally, at 1998, a record was made for some 36,000 miles [36,000 km] of waterways. Data from existing books, deedes, as well as land books covering 1.107 and 19% of the catastrian municipalities in Serbia were also used in the construction of the site. The analysis of the situation and records, as well as the use of the data contained therein, found that those in the official percentage do not correspond to the real situation on the ground, as well as to the legal state, i.e. the land book in many parts is practically worthless. A land book was shut down in 428 catastrian municipalities. Therefore, in the light of the proposal to amend and supplement the Law in Chapter III and it is said not to amend the basic principles on which the applicable law is based, as well as the basic legal institutes contained in the applicable law. This is also likely because the concept of the law so far is fully in line with international conventions on the formation of a building blocks of immovableity, which are planned to keep land and land books as a common record of immovableity by the same body, i.e. the institution. This is proof that even in the previous period, the law was a good basis for performing the national diameter and catastra of immovableity, but that the better results could not be achieved due to the lack of financial resources to realise the medium-term and annual programmes of national diameter and the catastra of immovableity, as well as the inadequate engagement of the Republic of Geodetic Institute and other republican institutions in this important business. However, in Article 136d of the Law, the proposal is ambitious but absolutely unrealistic for this kind of job, it states that catastres of immovableity in Serbia will be set up in three years: if even more aphirmiseprivate geodetic practice, which has existed so far both as a legal solution and as a practical situation; if it enables the establishment of geodetic enterprises with three employees of geodetic experts, instead of eight, as it stands in the basic legal text; and a simplified process of building a building block of immovableity, so that it will be formed directly on the basis of land catastra data. Not contesting the basic objective of achieving the amendments and additions of the Law, which is the urgent formation of a catastra of immovableity in Serbia, which was also the goal that was to be achieved in the previous law and by this same Republic Geodetic Institute, can be criticised or challenged by some proposed solutions in this text, because they are unclear, inaccurate, unrealistic and non-real. 1. In Article 2(2), paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: The bill says that in the event that the works are financed from the Republika Srpska budget, only the Republic Geodetic Institute can perform those works. This is in absolute collage with the basic intensities of the bill's proposal, which is to enable geodetic organisations to participate in the performance of state-owned and cadastre professional affairs because the work on the creation of an immovable catastra is financed in over 50% from the Republic of Serbia's budget. 2. The key provision of the Law proposal, members of 136a and 136b, that the immovableity cadastar will be educated on the basis of data contained in the land cadastre, is not an appropriate solution and a guarantee that the immovableity cadastre will be formed within three years because the land cadastra data are unsustainable and do not correspond to the fact that the land cadastre in Serbia does not represent both legal records, i.e. there is no collection of documents on which the property rights and other immobility rights are entered. When the right holder is supplied with such formed immovableity sheets, which may be less or more accurate, then there will be mass submission of requests to correct the wrong entry, which will surely last for another three or more years. How the organisation units of the Republic Geodetic Institute - Catastrians in municipalities - with the current number of employees will be able to resolve all new requirements of the rightholders, in addition to a number of other jobs, because these jobs are administrative and cannot be granted to geodetic organisations. 3. In order to ensure that the persons who have illegally built the facilities, which are registered as immobilisers under the current legal solution, submit an application for legalisation of the facility and pay for the cost of geodetic recording. Will the Geodetic Service have the means to record under official duty illegally built buildings? Will specific measures be taken for the geodetic recording of illegally built objects by the government and the Republic Geodetic Institute? 4. In accordance with the current legal solution given in Article 9, the diameter and design of the immovableity catastra shall be based on the medium and annual work programmes. The mid-term programme is adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the annual Republic Geodetic Institute. The programmes referred to in Article 1 shall provide for the resources and resources necessary for their realisation, which shall be provided from part of the income tax on citizens and part of the property tax. All of this, in our opinion, says that it is more important for the Serbian government to urgently bring in a medium-term programme of work on a state-wide diameter and a stalemate of immovableity and provide funds for its realisation. 5. Of course, the accuracy and up-to-date of cadastar records depends not only on good legal solutions and organisational models of geodetic professions, but also on the considerable extent of both legal solutions and their application in other areas that are directly related to immovableities, such as spatial planning, urbanism, building of buildings, building land, forestry, water economy, transport of immovableity, environmental protection and others. At the same time, by taking measures in this area, measures must also be taken towards increasing the discipline of all entities using immovable property for their different needs and activities, i.e. which are in accordance with the current law of the obligation to deliver, within the prescribed time limit, any changes in space to the Republic Geodesy Institute. With all this in mind, as well as the fact that the SPS group's MPs have tabled 12 amendments fundamentally amending some of the basic solutions in the draft law, when voting on the law in principle, the SPS MPs will vote against, and finally a statement on the law in general will be seen behind the fate of the amendments submitted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-13-0.u21442	Do any of the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? Yeah. Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-13-0.u21443	We are in the light of the bill's proposal, and also in the final sentence of the minister who explained the bill, we have received the assurance that it is indeed a technical law. However, the minister did not hold on to it, but accused a system, communistically, that its shortcomings were so great that today a law must be passed that would have entered into the business, which was not possible because we had a communist system. That's not true. In 1992, we passed the law, in 1993 we had two amendments, in 1994, two amendments, in 1996, in 1999, in 2001, we changed this same law, and the legislator himself said that the basic principles on which the current law is based and, of course, the basic legal institutes do not change, that the purpose of this law is simply to address the established shortcomings in the applicable law. There's not a whole new law in front of us, there's not a whole new system in front of us, and there's a principle that you'd say -- to this day it wasn't possible to do this because we didn't have a law. We had the law, I hope that after today's debate we'll get better law, but its basics are contained in the law that we're working on today; which, if there were any luck, if there were money, if there were different conditions, maybe more was done. Here, we're going to have a chance to control -- that's our job -- and by the adoption of this law, maybe the hardest jobs in this country that aren't about politics will come in the future. Proposerzakona says it liberalises the performance and conditions for doing all the professional work. But if you read Articles 1, 2 and 7. The bill, and especially the 23rd one I'm going to be on, you see that there are no major liberalisations. There is one illusion, but the Republic Geodetic Institute is still absolutely inconclusive, has the final word, and even the administrative dispute is banned according to the resolution of this Republic (Government) institution. The Republic Geodetic Institute should now carry out administrative tasks relating to the diameter and design of the immovableity catastra, and professional affairs should also be carried out by the Republic Geodetic Institute, but also by undertakings, other organisations and actions registered for the performance of these works. That's good. However, the geodetic organisation is registered only on the basis of a judicial solution from the Republic Geodetic Institute. She is, then, one step lower than the Republic Geodetic Institute. Furthermore, he will be able to participate in business competitions or directly perform jobs, only those for which he is not interested in the Republic Geodetic Institute, which is interested in works carried out from the Republic of Serbia's budget, for safe, stable sources of funding, stable sources of income. By reading the bill, I found nowhere that we, the users of the service, would influence the prices of services, and especially the prices of services that remain in the monopoly, in the monopoly of the Republic Geodesy Institute. If we acknowledge to one organization that there are enough experts, that it can professionally perform jobs, why we exclude it from competition to perform additional work; the filter is made, in addition to that filter for military purposes, for defence purposes, making another filter; to God, when the Republic of Serbia is interested in some works, and funding them from the budget, by all citizens of Serbia, we cannot create competition, but we will be able to trust these jobs exclusively to the Republic Geodetic Institute or its units that are on the territory of municipalities. In my opinion, this is a kind of a form of curbing competition. That means, what I give you, you'll be able to do. And what I'm not giving you, however professional and equipped you are -- it's no secret in this country, and it could speed up the work, so much we need, and I don't think 90% of these work in the country has been done -- and I'm not giving it to you because I have a state firm here that I want to finance from the budget. Article 4 is a little flawed because it says that the Director of the Republic Geodetic Institute determines a person who will supervise the performance of the work. He doesn't show papers from Article 12. The law, which would make Article 4 very clear. Of course, when I was talking about doing the work, and now I'm talking about technical documentation, it's the same filter again. So, the technical documentation financed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, meaning the budget of the Republic of Serbia, is entrusted exclusively to the Republic Geodetic Institute. Everything else, for us so small, which we pay out of our pocket, for the municipalities that pay again from the budget, is sufficiently professional and those for which the Republic Geodetic Institute again finds to be professional. Article 14 amends Article 41, but I failed to find what it had changed, except for the systematization; but it is the manner of the legislator present in many of the laws that came before our Assembly. Article 97 relating to the transfer of data to the ground is symptomatic because it says that the tasks of Article 4 of this Article will be carried out by the Republic Geodetic Institute if no geodetic organisation is registered in the territory of the municipality, or if the geodetic organisations registered in the territory of the municipality refuse to carry out these tasks; or, the organisation which has accepted the execution is unable to perform. I'm going back to Article 23. On what basis is it against a single institution's resolution, and even if it is called the Republic Geodetic Institute, which directly affects the fate of one company, because it determines that it can or can't, by which law after the second degree resolution of the same Republic Geodetic Institute - and now only the center or what you call it, and this was a unit in the municipality - not allowed to conduct administrative dispute? What is this solution against which no administrative dispute is allowed? Is there a solution against which there is no administrative dispute in the Republic Administration? Is there any solution in the Ministry against which no administrative dispute is allowed? I mean, what does a ban on managing a administrative dispute against any solution mean? What does disfellowshipping justice against any solution mean? I'm not getting into what the lawmakers are up to. I'm trying to objectively set things up. After Article 99, they add new views, so imagine now that the user of the immovable property, who wants to report a change to immovableity and should perform certain works, is obliged to deliver a statement by a geodetic organisation to accept the work done on the ground or to deliver statements by all geodetic organisations registered in the municipality not to accept these works. What if there are 20, what if there are 50, and one professional face enough for certain works. What it means is, if you tell a citizen, you have to go to all the doors so the Republic Geodite Institute can access some of the jobs, you have to give me a statement from everyone in this business that they don't want to do, and then the Republic Geodetic Institute will do it. It doesn't make sense to the citizens. We're doing this all for the citizens. We're not doing this because of the Republic Geodetic Institute. It exists solely because of the citizens of Serbia, not because of themselves... (President: 10 minutes and 30 seconds. Here's if I can take another two or three minutes, I won't answer another time. It does not exist only for itself or for the government of the Republic of Serbia. There's only one reason for citizens. What does that mean; so why would the Republic Geodetic Service do jobs that no other organization will ever do? It's a sign that he's got himself some power, and now he's got to justify himself to the citizens of Serbia and the MPs here so he can say, yes, I'm deciding who can register and do jobs exclusively for the government; when no one else in the community does those jobs, here I have to do it. They're not jobs that are not well-paid, where no profit can be made, because if they were, no private organization would register. The question arises, why did you distinguish it so much? Article 28: "Occupied supervision of the implementation of the works referred to in Article 97 of this Act shall be carried out by the Republic of Geodetic Institute". And what if the works are done by the Republic Geodetic Institute? It's, let me remind you, very serious work. That article in 97 actually describes everything that needs to be done. There are also waterways and data transfer from urban and other plans, there are permanent points. Who's going to supervise if the works are performed by the Republic Geodetic Institute? If he's on a pedestal, what's above him now? I want to treat this law like a technical law. That's how I get it. We didn't affect the basic draft laws to the amendments. We wanted this to be a real improvement. I don't know what amendments the government has accepted. I hear that the Government has accepted some amendments to the MPs and that this will change the basic draft of the law to some extent. What I draw attention to, in the end, and these are criminal provisions. Penalties are mandatory and fines are mandatory five times higher than before, and there are 20 times as many. We will take part in the debate on this bill, and we are basically against any bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which we consider to be a poor government. But I think we've had a lot of business. If God had only given this law to speed up the work that has been with us since the Second World War to this day, I would have made a commitment that in three years, as the billmaker has committed, when the situation is settled, one of the radicals comes out for a pay phone and says, we apologize for thinking three years ago that you will not speed up anything by this law. I am convinced, if there is no means, if this business is not being worked honestly and if you calm down the passions, say, of the people of Vojvodina, where it is quite well arranged, if you reconcile the two systems represented in the territory of the Republic of Serbia - in the north, central Serbia and the south - two completely different systems, we may experience the achievement of a good law.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-13-0.u21444	We're continuing the debate. According to applications for the word and order of MPs in the joint principle debate on amendments and additions to the Law on State Prime Minister and Katastre, the first is reported and has the word of MP Dragan Rafaelovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-13-0.u21445	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the general chaos of the legislation that we encountered when we arrived in December 2000, it is difficult to decide, and perhaps here is the biggest chaos. This law, in the opinion of the people who work in the catastra, who have ties to the geodetic administration, cooperate with them or work there, is very good and will take a long time, which gave me a reason to answer the word. What I'm saying is, since I have a little time -- I personally felt on my skin what it's like to have some property, have it in fact, and when you're looking for confirmation of where you need something, say for a gig or anything else you need, you can't take it out. Like, I bought a field 15 years ago, owned by the son of the man who died, and it was headed for his father. I filed orderly documentation, made a contract, handed over to the Catastre, and in the meantime the son died, and that field wasn't going to him or me, it's still going to his father who died 15 years ago. What do you think it's like for a man who wants to build a house and come and get the paperwork? So, it's not just a disaster, it's also a land-book issue, and I think that this law will bring the most benefits to the citizens right now, that it will solve its problems more easily, and that it will also solve the problems of people who come to build some factories, invest in investments, etc. A particularly good thing about this is that it's been armed for three years, and besides, it's going to run a lot of it because it's going to turn around, it's going to be people who deal with geodetic measurements. And what's mentioned -- what's going to happen, who's going to do the job, and that's a good thing, young people, young professionals will get a job. So there are several reasons why we should support this law and the DHSS will vote for this law. So, in addition to being good, the second reason that citizens will benefit from it, it will be easier to exercise their rights and do their jobs, and the third and greatest benefit of this law is that Serbia will always need quality laws, and I repeat, this is a quality law, especially when it becomes an independent, credible state, which will have integrity both here and in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-13-0.u21446	The word is by MP Milos Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-13-0.u21447	Dear Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, Mr Minister, today we have before us a bill on amendments to the Law on State Crossing and Cataster Law and registrations of the right to immovableity, on which the Assembly Group of the Soviets has several very serious objections. Our wish is that the remarks I want to talk about now be accepted constructively, because they refer to the bill that covers the important area of functioning of every modern and advanced state, which I hope we all stand for. Unfortunately, the SSJ parliamentary club believes that in some parts of this law, the legislator takes a step back from earlier solutions, which is inappropriate for reforms and the modernisation of society, which you say you are very much in favour of. The government of the Republic of Serbia, as the legislator of this law, has identified a very acceptable solution that enables businesses, other organisations and actions to carry out all expert geodetic activities on an equal footing on the market with the Republic Geodetic Institute. However, in the bill itself, there was a deviation from this principle of equality and an unwarranted favouring of state authorities in relation to private geodetic organisations. For example, the works of diameter and catastra of immovableity are intended to be carried out by the Republic Geodetic Institute, if no geodetic organisation is registered in the territory of the municipality. Why would the National Assembly in this case be associated locally with geodetic organizations in the territory of a municipality? Let the job be offered through a public ad, so they can freely compete with geodetic organisations from all over the territory of the Republic of Serbia, no matter where they are and in which municipality they are registered. Thus, the principle of equality on the market of all geodetic organisations will be respected, as defined by the legislator himself. We have a similar example in the construction of the main project, where the work is required to be done by the Republic Geodetic Institute, if the works are financed by the budget of the Republic of Serbia. So here again we have an exception to the principle of equality on the market. The public tendering process, or the collection of written offers, is only allowed if the main project is financed from other sources rather than from the budget. There is no excuse here for discrimination against private geodetic organizations, as it is certain that they are a reliable and quality contractor. And as the Republic Geodetic Institute is financed, it should not be subject to consideration or concern of this law. Let the government handle it, as regulated by the work and funding of similar organs. The SSP MPs insist that the position of the geodetic organisations of the state and private sector is in everything equal and that they have fully equal treatment on the market. In addition, we want to focus your attention on one, in our opinion, an extremely important problem -- it's a record of real rights, which should be in general on land books, and certainly not in cadastrian records. It is known that some temporary and legally unregulated conditions are recorded in the cadastrian record, and the actual rights to immovable property can only be recorded on land books. We believe that the law would live in the most modern form that a review of diameters should be carried out throughout the territory, where there is a detailed diameter, record all changes on land, legally regulate it and then enter into real estate records, and then such data would be of great benefit to the benefit of all parties in the process, and of course, states. All factors, both private organisations and geodetic administrations across the territory of the Republic of Serbia could be included in this job. This job requires both time and money, but it is only correct and useful for the purpose of this law. The situation on the ground in the cataster disagrees, and at a huge percentage, and accepting such a record of real estate would be a complete failure. Because so far, the parties have only reported the change extremely, when they had to, for reasons they had to pay very dearly. That's why 80% of the cases were recorded by former owners who died a long time ago. The goal was to establish a catastra with orderly records on land, and orange, taxation by cadastrian income, so for some time after the diameter there was a neat and accurate record, because every fourth year there was a mandatory check of the situation in both the cataster and the field. Finally, I would like to stress that the SSP MPs insist on the principle of equality of the state and private sector on the market in geodetic affairs, as well as giving full importance and advantages to the record of real rights to immovable property, according to land books, in relation to cadastrian records. Due to the above and exposed, the Assembly Group of the Soviet Union will not support this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-13-0.u21448	The People's MP Dragan Milentijevic has the word, followed by MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-13-0.u21449	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we still have one technical law ahead of us. It's a good thing there's not much room for politics in these laws. No matter what, I think most MPs will support this law, because above all, it is the desire of all of us here to improve the situation in this area. We heard something about history. So, before World War II, the situation in this area in our country was very up-to-date and we weren't behind serious Western states, but over time we came into a desperate situation. Extreme cases of such a bad condition are, as you heard, New Belgrade, and then also can confirm it (Bulevar Nemnjec in Nis), as well as many other housing blocks across Serbia. Reforms in one of these laws and even reforms for one such area take a very long time. What's important at this point is three things: first, the changes and additions of this law, and that's what we're doing today; secondly, we need to buy new equipment, computers, and we've heard from the people at the office that at this point the office doesn't have enough equipment; thirdly, the education of staff at the Republic Geodetic Institute. This is because we are likely to use new technologies from autumn to enter the global positioning system (GPS). However, the key change is what happens with private practice. We have had about 90 private businesses in Serbia so far, but these private companies have been engaged in the decommissioning of parcels, while, for example, they have not been able to record housing blocks. Now the wish is completely different. It is necessary to fully separate the professional part from the administrative tasks of the Republic Geodetic Office. This will be achieved by keeping the data bank and dealing with administrative affairs: rights, copying, copying, and other. The government has committed to adopt a regulation on the formation of private enterprises within 30 days, but it is also very important that licensing and inspection supervision remain with the Republic Geodetic Office. Another very important thing is that those who deal with private practice in this area will have to own very expensive equipment, because we all know how much they cost to dissomat and total cells, but it's normal for people who do private practice to swallow that pill. All of this is done in order to make registrations more up-to-date, because new regulation plans need to have up-to-date geodetic backgrounds. Our desire is to improve this situation in three years, however, objectively, we have all admitted on the Committee that we will have a better condition in four to five years. The government is currently funding only the salaries of people from the Republic Geodetic Institute, but we've heard they'll have some other things they'll have to finance, like, a geodetic network. There is simply no desire for people who do business to invest in such things. On the Committee on Urbanism and Construction, the Government has accepted a lot of amendments; I think it has been very pragmatic and there is simply no reason not to support this law. I think, in fact, the government's wish was to change the proposals of this law as high as possible. I just want to mention and draw attention to another example, actually one problem. In Serbia, local self-government buildings also contain catastra services. The problems that the Catastre has and which we are talking about, unfortunately, our citizens don't know enough and very often, precisely because of the problems that the Catastre has, they're very angry at local self-government, and they don't really know that it's the administration that has completely separate powers. In the end, the Social Democratic Party MPs will vote in favour of this law, but, as I said at the outset, I am of the opinion that many other MPs will vote in favour of this law. We simply need to support a change in the situation in this area.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-13-0.u21450	The People's Messenger Petar Jojic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the People, Aleksandar Radosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-13-0.u21451	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, according to the SRS, should have come closer, more extensive and more precisely to draft a law that should be longer and that should have as many newspapers as the Republic of Serbia needs. In Serbia, there are more, regionally speaking, different records of immovableities. In Vojvodina, grantovnica was adopted and the grant state was monitored in terms of the provisions of Roman law, which means the fiction of absolute accuracy in the keeping of land books and keeping records on immovable property. At the end of the DJ and DJ centuries in Vojvodina and Serbia, in certain parts, land books have been established, and since then land book plans on immovableities have not been changed, and these plans and records have been badly damaged and are quite unusable. Serbia is heading towards regionalisation; according to the government's proposal, as public information means, it will be six, seven regions. We will come to a situation that each region will have its own records and Serbia will not have the same records of the right to enter the immovable property and edit the catastras. It is a much better grantovnica because the grantovnica has a collection of documents and with this collection of credentials, the registration of immovable property is performed, and changes in immovable property are made. There are fewer mistakes compared to the cadastre being led, and today some parts of the Republic of Serbia are being led, which is the Tapi system. The MP and head of the SRS parliamentary group, Tomislav Nikolic, spoke extensively about some members to draw attention to in order to improve the text of the law. In Article 23. The bill is foreseen - if certain errors are detected on entry, these errors can be corrected within two years. We think that this is a very long period and that these mistakes must be corrected as soon as possible because it is an interest of the owner, so the immobilisers, and those who want to acquire property and property rights on immovable property, that this correction goes as soon as possible, and not that citizens wait if they need to exercise some rights; and that means: a man wants to sell immovableity, but a legal predecessor needs to arrange a cadastre and needs to edit a land book so that the transfer of rights can be done in good time and be clean. I would also like to point out, as Tomislav Nikolic pointed out, that the failure to have constitutional and legal protection is under Article 23. What do we do when the decision is made by the Republic Geodetic Institute? In that case, you have no one to complain to, so there's no constitutional protection. This is against the constitution; if there is no legal, or judicial protection, it is nevertheless a single violation of the Constitution, because the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia guarantees all citizens that they have the right to declare a complaint or any other remedy for the decision of the state body that has been made. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as regards transitional and final provisions, I do not think it has been taken into account, that it should have given a longer period of time to carry out technical and personnel preparations for the application of this law, because if, in transitional and final provisions, it is envisaged and proposed that this law enters into force on the eighth day from the date of adoption and adoption in the Republic of Parliament, in this case, it is a short period of time, especially if you have in mind the fact that one big newspaper is being introduced, private practice is introduced in diameter and catastrasy. Therefore, I personally believe that its application was to be delayed for at least two months so that preparations could be made to better do so and to allow citizens to exercise certain rights that they seek before the competent state authorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-13-0.u21452	The People's MP Aleksandar Radosavljevic has the word, and after that, the MP Ljubomir Mucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-13-0.u21453	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, the Honored Presidency, the bill that has delivered to us the Resort Ministry of Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Transcription and Cataster and the Immobilization Rights has its two basic, key and essential changes that it carries with it: in the first place it gives full freedom to perform and conditions for performing professional work in the area of immobility; this is a key paper that this law carries with it; the second paper, perhaps slightly less significant, but not drastically, is the development of an accelerated process of building up a catastra of immovableity. The existing law, I just want to remind you, which we have been changing for the eighth time today, has existed since 1988. Then a mandatory building of a building block instead of land books and deedes is prescribed. It's like I said, it's designed to be a unique legal record of real estates and rights entities on them. This proposal for a law of 1988 and the law of the land book, the book of the deed as legal records of the immovableities and rights on them and the land cadastre remain in force until the reception and confirmation is made within 10 years of the date of the adoption of the law. So that deadline expired practically in 1998. However, in 1992, his change came, and the deadline practically expires this year, as the 10 years since 1992 were extended to 2002. Such a law at that time, in 1988, the professional public did not quite accept with special sympathy, considering one such concept, which this law bears, quite wrong, because, according to them, the jurisdiction passed over to the Republic Geodetic Institute, and excluded from judicial jurisdiction, cannot be properly carried out; so today we have had the opportunity to hear similar arguments; this is a failed experimentation, as they said, in a highly sensitive legal matter; it is supported that there are 5,800 catastrian municipalities in Serbia, that the unique catastrian record at that time covers only 66 municipalities in Serbia. Additional confusion on all of this hasn't been brought in by this so-called. The lack of funds, since the bill's proposal was to be taken into account at that time, when it was decided on such a step, the government at the time introduced additional confusion, since it clearly did not want to know whether or not it wished to apply the law in a consistent manner. Although the Law on the making of a single immobility record, as I said, was a deadline of 10 years, they likely, seeing that the law could not be applied within that time period, made the first amendment, and here this year, the deadline expires. This is also one reason to speed up this whole process and process. Despite these changes in 1992, the government has stopped the process of making a single record, i.e. the book of immovableity, even giving the opinion that it is not necessary to keep a single record; so it is where the diameter was worked, and I specifically state for the city where I come from, Kragujevac, for so-called "Kravujevac". Kragujevac 1, which was launched in 1991, ended in 1994, and adopted only in 1996, the minister will correct me. The reason we've been waiting for two years is because no one knows. Somewhere in 1997, the government finally decided to start working, but it was not working properly and properly again, so it wasn't shooting, it was just a comparison of the catasters and land books, so it didn't take place again, resulting in an absolutely unscheduled stairway of immovableity. The result is that today we have a large number of unrecorded objects in Serbia, which are logically without a building permit and normally their consequence is inconsistency. Only Kragujevac and Novi Sad have worked to produce a unique record in Serbia so far. In Kragujevac, a total of 62 catastrian municipalities, up until now with unique records in Kragujevac 1 and Kragujevac 2, comprised 44 catastrian municipalities, means about two-thirds of the Katastrian municipalities in the town of Kragujevac. These changes are aimed at, and this is the key that needs today to adorn this discussion, to isolate the professional affairs in this area, which has a significant part of the jobs and costs to free the Republic Directorate and normally relieve the Republic budget. Also, this bill creates the conditions that other authorised organisations, which should be established under this bill, do professional work and thus the Republic Geodetic Institute, as a special organisation, receive more space and time to work on administrative affairs and normally to modernise and improve the work on reception, processing, distribution of diameters and cadastrian operatives. Also, citizens will end their jobs this way much faster. Geodetic experts get the conditions to work harder, to work better, to be more creative, and the fourth basic thing is to make more money. We need to know, and that's what one of my colleagues mentioned, there are very modest personal incomes in the Republic Geodesy Institute, and that's also one of the reasons why the Ministry decided to take this step. I see that individuals have the fear of having private practice in this area. I am absolutely convinced that when the first positive experiences are seen, that this fear itself will disappear. So this bill aims to create conditions for a faster process of building a building block, which defines the right to immovableity, which is far more important; to simply know what is whose, which is one of the basic pillars of the modern state, which, to be honest, we all strive for together. For these reasons, MPs of the Democratic Party will vote for this law and I urge all other colleagues to support this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-13-0.u21454	The People's MP Ljubomir Mucic has the word, followed by MP Petar Cvetkovic. The MP has at his disposal the time of his parliamentary group and at the time when the time for rest will be taken away from you and you will be able to continue in the afternoon work unless you wish to participate in the session of the National Assembly. Yes, you do. Do you want to start now or in the afternoon to be the first in the debate? You want to go first in the debate this afternoon. We'll continue the session at 15.00 hours and ask all the MPs to be in the O.R. at 15.00 hours. [[After break - 15.50.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing this afternoon's session. In order for us to continue our work, please determine if there is a quorum needed to work. Please insert your identification cards into the MPs. Here you go. (After 15 minutes - 16,05-16,15) I find that we have a quorum to work with. I hereby inform the National Assembly that 142 MPs have been reported on record. The quorum consists of MPs DOS and DS and one SPS MP, declared word in the morning section. The word is by MP Ljubomir Mucic, followed by MP Petar Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-13-0.u21456	Dear People's MPs, Mr Minister, have proposed amendments and additions to the Law on State Border and Cataster and the registration of fixed property rights are only cosmetic settings, i.e. repairs to overcome certain shortcomings and shortcomings in the current application of the law, whose basic text was introduced in 1992, and some minor changes and additions were later made. Also, some of the technical things proposed in these amendments and additions to the law represent a way to strengthen more quickly, i.e. to revise the catastra. Continuity in implementing and retaining the basic principles and legal institutes of the applicable law is the best confirmation of valid, professional and other operational matters in the area of national diameter and cadastre. The biggest and most important shift in the adoption of the new text of this system law at the time is the unification of professional geodetic affairs, legal affairs, registration of fixed property rights in one place, or in the Republic Geodetic Office. The extent of the construction and unification of the building of the building of the immovable property, as a unique record of immovableities, in municipalities in Serbia, is much of a variety of colourful and diverse. The results of this plan are the direct consequence of two factors: firstly, the staff, professional and technical training of the units of the Republic Geodesy Institute in the local unit; secondly, the lack of financial resources for the implementation of the annual and medium-term national diameter and immovableity programmes, so that in municipalities that worked on the planning and urban regulation and invested municipal resources, they achieved more significant results in the area of updating these plans and building blocks. The basic question that is raised on this occasion is - will these amendments of the law be ambitiously planned on the structure of the property catastra and implemented within three years, as foreseen by the law? My opinion and the opinion of the SPS MPs is that this goal is not feasible for a number of reasons in such a short period of time, and I will only list a few. First, if you cared about that goal, you wouldn't wait five months for these amendments to be passed and for about two or three months to pass the accompanying acts, you'd already be focusing our attention and your attention on the plan-making programme to implement this law. The basic intensities of the law - the emergency structure and the update of the motions - are not changed in relation to the basic text of the law, where we all agree; this is one of the few laws that we and the priors do not refuse, but we will vote for it, depending on the acceptance of our amendments that we have submitted. The question also arises - where have the funds that have been the main reason and impediment to poor results in the present period, if the implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional funds in the Republic's budget? Who are the donors in funding, with what intentions and purpose? Are their intentions justified and honorable at this time? Will the same treatment have flat-rate and fertile parcels, with virtues and negativity? Whether someone will try to get involved, which could never have been in the monasteries so far, and sometimes in the separate land books in one place, and the monasteries, or the motion records elsewhere; whether this is a new excuse for the former owners of the nationalised property that there will almost be no law on denationalisation and the exercise of their rights. Why the unnecessary siege of municipal catastras and the opening of new chapters and hotspots in these state institutions. The army of geometers, lawyers, administrative staff must be engaged in this job, which failed, and in part managed to finish it in the past ten years. On the other hand, the thesis of a well-employed and award-winning geometer in the state cataster disproves the thesis of the liberalisation of the conditions for the opening of private geodetic organisations. I will speak more about this in the interpretation of the amendments that I have submitted to Article 2 of this Law, where registration is mentioned, i.e. the abolition of the right to work by geodetic organisations; especially if it is known that the works on the creation of a building block of immovableness, the professional affairs of the state diameter and the cadastra are financed by over 90% from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and we know that they are taxes, i.e. the price list by which these works are established in the jurisdiction of the republican authorities. All of this, according to the Socialists, contributes to making, in accordance with Article 9 of this Law, the urgent adoption of a medium-term programme of work on a state-wide diameter and a cataster of immovableity rather than the proposed amendment of this law, as well as the adoption of an annual operational plan for the establishment of an immovableity catastra, as well as the proposals of sources of funds and measures that would contribute to the implementation of this law, programme tasks and definitions. The SPS parliamentary group has submitted 10 amendments, some have also been accepted, and I hope that after discussions in the details and possible adoption of this law and we support these cosmetic changes; at this point we really think that there are more important issues and problems that should have been addressed at this point from these cosmetic amendments to the Law on Catastra and the registration of immovableity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-13-0.u21457	The word is by MP Petar Cvetkovic, followed by Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-13-0.u21458	Ladies and gentlemen, we have before us an amendment to the Law on State Crossing and Catastrophe and Law on Real Estates. We've heard Mr. Secretary's opening statement and there's a lot we can agree on. The first and the main thing is that this is a matter, that is, a law of purely professional nature, where there is not much space for politics. However, this does not mean that through the way we propose, adopt and contain this law, as well as made statements, we do not try and manage to assess the seriousness and work of the government. On the other hand, we will also agree that the situation in this area, i.e. in the area of the catastra of immovableity in Serbia, is disastrous, as Mr. Minister said if I remembered the word correctly. In one word, the very bad situation in Serbia is in terms of the diameter and the catastra of the immovableity. The largest number of immovableities, particularly regarding buildings, or halls, and also much of the land, with incorrect data is recorded in land books and cataracts of immovableity. The current situation in Serbia is much worse than that in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia; I will remind you of the fact that in 1932, by 1936, a list was made in Serbia, i.e. the cadastrian diameter and the established diameter of the immovable catastra, which was much better than that of the one in Serbia today. We in Serbia's municipalities today have a five-fold state. One situation is in municipalities where we only have a land cadastre. In other municipalities there are caves of land and monasteries of immovableity. In the third floor of the land and the cataclysm of immovableity, a land book was established next to them. The next one has a land cadastre, a cadastar of immovableity and a Tapi system. This situation in Serbia is diverse, starting from Vojvodina to southern Serbia, and different from the municipality to the municipality. I will remind Serbia that a huge number of buildings, mostly family buildings, as well as residential buildings, or housing units, have been built with building permits or without building permits, means against the law, it is not (particularly these buildings) listed in the Immobility Catalogue. This situation lasts from 1945 until today, and the last Law on Premore and Cataster, which is fundamental to these changes and additions, namely this Law on Amendments and Supplements, is the 1992 law that was more important in 1996. According to the 1992 law, it is the obligation of the Republic Geodetic Institute to carry out a housing cadasar in Serbia in 10 years, i.e. by the end of 2002. It's this year. The situation is such that despite this relatively long period of 10 years, which according to some estimates is not enough, it is now only about 10 or below 10% of the job. This job was done slowly, both because of the lack of funds and because of the fact that it was taken as a supplemental job and government, that is, the government was satisfied with any percentage of the work done, and there was no goodwill and intention to complete this job. We find ourselves at a time when it is necessary to form an immovableity pad with accurate data as soon as possible, and I will remind you, it is very important, given that we want privatisation, or we want to train businesses, small and medium, for their operation; for example, the lending needs to have the immovableity to guarantee credit. If these immovableities are not included in land-based books, i.e. in the immovableity cataster, neither bank nor creditor can obtain credit. That's one example. Another example is where, for any personal need, citizens document evidence of property, whether on land, or on buildings and other real estates. At present, the situation in the catastra is such that very few municipalities to a satisfactory level have arranged the condition of the cataster. On the spot, the state of activity and the condition of the cadastrian books were very different, and it occurred that several generations had inherited immovable property or land, and today they are being held as owners of their distant ancestors, fathers, grandfathers or great-grandfathers. Perhaps the reason is that there was no obligation to enter a change in the cataster, so people, in order to avoid monetary obligations or possibly to avoid any sales tax, avoided all these changes, or contracts, solutions, judgments, giving a catastra to the transfer of property. Because of this poor condition and the intensities of the ministry, the minister and the government are fully justified. Our goal, all of us, and so I say that there is at least room for political speeches, is that this state of immovableity in Serbia, the registration of property and the burden of immovable property, as soon as we can get to the bearable state and level. However, to move on to the draft law given by the Ministry; we will see, and you can all see that in the very reasons for the law being passed, that is, in the light of the draft law on amendments and additions, it is said that this law does not change the basic principles on which the applicable law is based, nor does the basic legal institutes contained in the applicable law. This is an unquestionable fact if we refer to the fact that, for the past 10 years, the 1992 Law has not reached a goal that is promoted by law and which is intended to be achieved. The question arises, should these principles and the 1992 Law Institute have been maintained without more serious analysis, with major changes in 1996, or might it have been more celibate to look for other ways? At this point, we do not have a more detailed, more serious explanation or understanding of the problem. We can accept that this law is good, for example, but this bill makes me think that there will be no solution to the problem as a whole. Two basic things are given in the proposal: the first is that geodetic organisations are placed in the same position as the Republic Geodetic Institute, i.e. in market conditions; the second is that for the establishment of these geodetic organisations, which could also be established under the previous law, the conditions are significantly facilitated. So a much larger number of factors will be able to participate in the cadastrian diameter, or form a building blocks of immovableity. It's okay. There is also a Democratic Party of Serbia that has given amendments, and what Mr. Minister has accepted, where the Republic Geodetic Institute and Geodetic Organisations are fully equal. That part of the law is not disputed from the DSS's point of view. But it's only one part of the problem. A much larger part of the problem is in which time we will be able to form a catastrophe of immovableity. This is where we return to the optimistic statement of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia -- who is also the President of the Commission, I apologize for hearing from Mr Minstra today, I do not know the exact name of the commission, but it is most likely the Commission for the establishment of an immovable cadastra -- that this large business will be completed in two or three years. This is practically impossible, all the objective facts suggest that this is just a statement given for political marketing or possibly some pre-election campaign, if elections should follow. I'm going to remind you of some subpar facts that require a much longer period of formation, i.e. the establishment of a catastra of immovableity. The area of Serbia, and I'll round the figures, something below 9 million hectares; the catastrian municipalities are 5.832; the plot is about 23 million; family buildings are under five million, about 4.5 million; housing units, which are thought of collective housing buildings, these are residential buildings, there are about 2.5 million; urban areas and areas covered by the general urban plan are 520,000 ha; the owner of the immovable property is about 4,700,000; households, and perhaps their numbers will change after this census, but not much, there are around 4.5 million; the property lists are about five million. In a fact like this, in 10 years we have done about 10% of our jobs; and in two or three years, the rest of the 90 percent of the jobs will be done. For all this extensive work, and I would say pessimistic estimates, it takes 14 or 15 years. According to experts from our party, by optimistic estimates, it takes about eight years. What made the statement that this would happen in two or three years? I've considered this problem and the statement isn't complete. I'd say the statement is aimed at alleged reforms. Two or three years will only be achieved in one piece, and that's exactly the other part of the law. That part of the law concerns Article 48. It's a bill of law. Article 48 provides for Articles 136a to 136b. Article 136a exempts itself from the provisions of this Act which regulates the exposure to public data on immovableities and rights on them, in catastrian municipalities in which the diameter or refurbishment of the diameter is not established; or if the existing land-based book of change does not carry out one or more years uninterrupted; or if it is not restored after the reconstruction of the diameter; and in catastrian municipalities where there is no urban building land - there will not be an exposure to public data on immovable property and rights on them, but the cataster of immovableity will be educated on the basis of the data contained in the land cataster. This directly means, in one sentence, these two to three years, and I think that's going to be a little bit, it's only going to apply to agricultural land that's out of town building land. It's the land where there's at least a change, no matter what changes there is. This will be done by a reduced procedure, without exposure to data, using only land cadastra data, which, as I have said in recent years, has not been managed on an up-to-date basis, so much, a huge part of that data is incorrect, both in terms of borders, the identification of parcels, and in terms of property and property rights holders and burdens on these parcels. There will be confusion that incorrect data will be entered into the immovableity cadasar. However, the bill also provides for a period of two years to correct these mistakes. However, it is unwarranted, regardless of the argument of economics, that these data are not placed on public insight, so that all owners or interested citizens can see what these are burdens, which are restrictions on their property. During this publicity on public insight, they could intervene on a timely basis and reach one of the right and all of the building blocks. Here it was thought, for two or three years, was thought of this part of the land, which is that land outside the cities, outside the construction areas, which may be large on the surface, but which would only end with this bureaucratic method in a very fast way. What about buildings and buildings that don't go according to this special shortened procedure? The bill promoter did not say that, but it is understood - under the old law; that means that long procedure, where the one who wants to receive the information, or who needs to get proof of property, must initiate the registration procedure, i.e. the procedure to enter his immovableity or object into the building of immovable property. It's a much bigger part of the job than this part of the job and this part-round that's foreseen by this bill. In one word, the impression is that this law is progressing compared to the previous one. This law should be passed; however, this law only scratches the surface of a huge problem, which cannot be solved for the next 10 years, and it is silenced. Why don't you say it in public? I have the impression that this law is primarily about creating the impression that it is working, that there is reform and that it is the reform government, which proposes reform laws. I don't see reform in the proposed changes, although changes are in place, but the word reform takes a lot more and needs a comprehensive solution to the problem. May the Lord be called to say that for the pay phone, and I implore the President to give the gentleman a warning, according to the Rules of Procedure, for the cast. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-13-0.u21459	I remind the MP of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly where the statement of notice is the discretionary right of the chairman and can only be voted without a search if the Assembly decides to oppose a decision to allow a replica. The word has been made by the People's MP, Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-13-0.u21460	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am not against the debate on this bill of amendments and additions to the Law on State Prime Ministers and Cataster, but I think that when half of the nation lives on the border of existence today, when we can safely say that 80% of the economic capacity in Serbia does not work, when there are many citizens of Serbia hungry, and fortunately, there are no Bosnians, because it is a good time, when many citizens live "at the beginning", we are discussing something that I don't think should be on the agenda today. Since all your laws are reformable, and I think it is also the desire of the DOS to get close to all these laws to Europe, or the European Union, so I was worried that the minister did not confirm this in his presentation, that this law is also the goal of Europe, to measure us once again along and across. I'm afraid, gentlemen, if this isn't some kind of DOS Udurma again, that it wants to determine the actual state of the facilities and the land that the DOS individuals are interested in. I have repeatedly set an example for this speaker of the Sabbath "Mepritlastics", where the current president of the Chamber of Commerce, usurped the company, in fact, in court a few days ago, but so it is in the cadastre, to translate several objects into its own name. I'm also interested in how there were sales of several companies and its facilities and registrations on behalf of certain owners, without issuing a public auction, which is an example of a polyester in Capac. I would not agree with individuals that the situation in the Catastrian services is so bad and that certain items do not end within the deadline, because I have a personal example that this has been done very quickly in the past period. The process of co-operation lasted until 1990 in Machva and Posavo-Tamnavi, where property accumulation was wanted, i.e. where the diameter and enrollment of land books was wanted. However, I must point out the problem that after 10 years there has been no resolution of between old and new land books, i.e. after the completion of the commission, means by recording new and creating new properties and new owners. As for the diameter in Serbia's territory, you said it was done from 10% to 30%. I think it might have been done more, but it's on the state budget, so the money wasn't there. As much money, as much music. I have to point out that the price of diameter per hectare is about 200 marks, which is a lot. I point out that the state should now execute this diameter without a certain compensation, i.e. to determine the actual situation in the cataster, the entry in the land books, and then see, when certain pending cases occur, that only then the owners perform the geometer. I'm interested, ladies and gentlemen, because nothing has been indicated here, what about the land books for Kosovo and Metohija? The problem was very little talked about, I don't think the minister said anything about it. And finally, I would still point out the logical question that by passing this law the number of litigation litigation cases will be reduced. I am convinced that this law does not impose order, but creates a mess, because the law does not provide, as I said, for a cadastrian diameter to be applied on the cost of the state. I know, it's been measured five times by a geometer, and they gave different results, and they actually pay the price to the citizens. Finally, I would point out that, due to a lack of time, I would say more extensively about this issue at the rally, the 17th of this month in Leskovac, at 15.00 hours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-13-0.u21461	The People's Messenger, Bogoljub Zečević, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-13-0.u21462	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the basic Law on the State's Prime Minister and the Cataster and the entry of the right to immovable property as well as amendments and additions to that law, which are now on the Assembly's agenda, create all the conditions for establishing a single record of all immovableities in one place, which is a major social, economic and political progress, especially if there have been more different records of immovableities, which have been kept in our republic by several state bodies, starting with the land book, then the deed book, to the land catastrah, which differ, both in terms of shape and volume of the records, and in terms of the record of property rights. In addition, it is very important to point out that this legal act is applied uniquely to the entire territory of Serbia, as the only record of all immovable property, which is about land, buildings, detailed property, business space, whose creation and maintenance is entrusted to the Republic Geodesy Institute. As a result of the provisions of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State measure and cadaster and the entry of the right to immovable property, the exercise of professional tasks relating to the diameter and production of the immovableity cadastras has equitted the rights and possibilities of the work of state authorities and private entrepreneurs, which represents an improvement of private practice in geodetic affairs. It is one of the promises of the government of the Republic of Serbia, that it will work to develop private entrepreneurship. This opportunity should be pointed out and commended by the promoter for trying to simplify, speed up and cost-effective the building of a real estate catastra, whose three-year deadline is for rural areas. The creation of a catastra of immovableity throughout the territory of the Republic creates legal security of citizens and opens the door for investment in development and improvement of all forms of economic activity. In addition to these commendations, however, I would only have a few grudges - first, the bill simplified and speeded up the construction of a catastra of real estate outside city building land. However, what is important and vital to cities and urban areas, there has not been a major shift, or at least that is not the case in law, especially in those municipalities in which the reconstruction of the diameter was made. In the area of Zlatibor County, the reconstruction of the diameter was made in Užica, Prijepolje and Novi Varoša, more than 15 years ago. The funds for financing the urban area's diameters of several million euros were allocated from the municipality's budget and the budget of the Republic of Serbia, by 50%. I don't think there's any valid reason for these start-ups, which take so long, not to finish as soon as possible, and for the funds and work to be invested as soon as possible. My next complaint concerns Article 22 of this Act, where in the last position, among other things, it says "if geodetic organisations registered in the territory of the municipality refuse to carry out these tasks". It's not a happy solution and how it's possible that someone who's registered for some work refuses to do the job. I think the minister should explain this position of the law a little bit. In the end, this is certainly a good law that will be applied and in Serbia alone and MPs of the Democratic Party will support a proposal to amend and supplement this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-13-0.u21463	The People's Messenger Radojko Petric has the word, and after him, the National Messenger Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-13-0.u21464	The respected presidency, honourable MPs, Mr. Minister, stemming from the fact that only 9% of Serbia's surface area as a form of property records has been made a catalogue of immovableity, the government's insistence is justified to take measures to correct this situation. In the previous period, the Socialist government was aware that jobs should be accelerated in this area. In that sense, she passed a good law. For this law, in the light of these additions that we are considering today, I quote: "This law does not change the basic principles on which the applicable law is based, nor does the basic legal institutes contained in the applicable law. " The basic reason that in the previous period in this job no longer exists is the lack of funds. It is clear to every citizen when he recalls a period of breaking Yugoslavia, economic sanctions, helping a large number of refugees, transitions, wartime conditions, to NATO destruction, because this really requires huge funds. The government now wants to speed up the construction of a building block. Compared to the basic objective - to speed up the creation of a building block - some proposed provisions of the law differ from that goal. Some are contrary to that goal, and some are simply unreal. In the preceding sense, I point out that Article 2 is good at reducing the limit for the implementation of the professional tasks for which the main project is envisaged. These jobs can be done by the Republic Geodetic Institute and private geodetic firms - instead of eight, they should provide at least three geodetic profession workers; that's fine, that's good. However, it is not good that these tasks can only be done by the Republic Geodetic Institute if funding is made out of the budget. Given that these jobs are almost 90% financed from the budget, this will exclude competition. The explanation that he wants serious involvement of private firms, unless this provision changes, is like a simple phrase. What about the public tendering process and collecting written offers? What's left of a declaration to work faster and cheaper? How this will fit in with the law on public procurement, which should soon be adopted, or already included in the agenda of this session. The same remark concerns Article 7 which regulates the production of technical documentation and Article 31 which regulates the adjustment of geodetic works for specific needs. On the other hand, Article 22 excludes the Republic of Geodetic Institute for the maintenance of water immovableity catastra operations. This is paradoxical again. Why is it impossible for the Republic Geodetic Institute to do these jobs and compete equally with private geodetic firms? It is also an unsustainable proposal contained in this article, in Article 22, that only a private geodetic company from the municipality where these works are being carried out. It is logical that private geodetic companies from other municipalities can compete for these jobs, not just from the municipality where works are done. For respect's sake, the government's ambitious proposal is to end the immovableity cadastre within three years. However, despite all the proposed measures in the amendments to the Law, the deadline envisaged is certainly unsustainable, for several reasons. How is it possible for this job to end in three years, if only 9% of Serbia's surface has been built, and for 23% of the territory there are land books? It's known to everyone that there are many unregistered objects. It's believed that only wild building facilities have about a million. It is not disputed that the geodetic profession can quickly record the object and draw it into the geodetic plan, but how long can the registration of property be completed and the property-legal relations solved? There are citizens who have not yet entered the inheritance, gift, or immobility obtained by physical division in 50 - 60 years. Take, for example, the bought - out apartments, which are largely not included in the immovableity catalogue and on which mortgages cannot be placed. So, based on this, it can't be used as a guarantee to get credit, and as often as the need arises, especially now when small businesses are founded, so the owners want to put the mortgage on, even though they bought the apartment. But that's impossible for most of us now. In order to carry out these tasks, it is necessary to provide the missing staff of geodetic professions, geometers, but also specialised lawyers for this area. Indeed, there are not many lawyers who are well - trained for this area. Therefore, attention must also be paid to that direction and personnel. The key question remains whether the government will be able to provide for these operations for a three-year period of enormous financial resources? In order to resolve this important issue for the citizens and the legal persons of Serbia as quickly and more complexly as possible, despite all the remarks made by the Socialists, they will vote in favour of the proposed law, provided certain amendments are accepted, which are improving to give the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-13-0.u21465	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic, followed by Stevan Kesejić.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-13-0.u21466	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have a very important proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on State Crossing and Catastrophe. For us from the village it is a very important law and certainly we will support it; for two reasons. The most important thing is that it enables in professional business private practice, which introduces competition and will bring prices down. Administrative tasks will continue to be carried out by the Republic, i.e. the Republic Geodetic Institute. It is said here that in Vojvodina things are somewhat more organized than in Serbia. It's not our fault these killed the best geometer, Nikola Kalabic. Maybe they'd be a little better off if they hadn't done it after the war. Today, we have heard regrets from their legal followers about this law. Some claimed to support this law, while insisting on their amendments, while others claimed they would break the law in principle, from the same parliamentary group, and would then insist on their 12 amendments. These are the legal followers of the same authority that recorded their property with machine guns, established all forms of property, all of which are nobody's and theirs, and the biggest victims in this persecution were peasants, agricultural land, etc. So today I don't give them the right to make any objections, especially when they say there are millions of wildly built objects, forgetting that at least 800,000 were built out of these millions of wildly built in the last 10 years. So they ruled those last 10 years, when these buildings were wildly built, and today they resent us for their mistakes. Other national romanticists argue that this law is not reformable enough, and they even pulled the parallel towards the Republic Roads Directorate, ignoring the directive that pushed through the most favourable and cheapest offer in the tender. If I remember correctly, it was a grudge. The last of them were bar patriots, they're a special political type of geometry. They measured the boundaries they wanted, plotted almost to Trieste. In doing so, it is evident that they have acquired significant assets in their behalf; they have sacrificed people for territory, lost people and territory, and have made themselves rich. That's not what they're up against at all. We will support this law in principle and detail - as the government has proposed. Do you have any problems maybe... (He speaks to Ambassador Nikolic)
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-13-0.u21467	I ask the speaker not to speak to the MPs in the benches and not to receive the messengers.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-13-0.u21468	Because I'm not a medical expert, and especially not this guy... What did you say? [[Sagar.]] You're crazy enough without it, sir. Thank you. Have a nice day.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-13-0.u21469	The word has been made by MP Stevan Kesejić, after him... A dialogue in a parliamentary bench with you? [[Sagar.]] (He speaks to MP Tomislav Nikolic. I warned both you and the MP that there was no dialogue. (Tomislav Nikolic insists he gets the word. The basis for replication? The basis for the replica, said by the MP, cannot be repeated in public transmission, but the chairman respects it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-13-0.u21470	Where did Marian Risticevic go? He's not, he's getting away. So, I'd take the impression that I'm crazy if someone was to say it here. For example, from Milka I would accept another grade, it's very professional to give me that grade. [[Sagar.]] But just to warn you that those of you who are in charge of the National Assembly - forbid alcohol, that can be very easy. We can all have one machine here to regulate it. I can tell you right now, if I have to, the names of seven or eight MPs who couldn't even get past him without that machine starting to buzz. Either -- forbid that alcohol, or -- let us talk to that dictionary that's used for this speaker. You pretended not to hear what the predecessor said. It's all gone without any warning, and there's a lot of things that's been said at the expense of all political parties, groups, individuals. It can't be an excuse to be an alcoholic; for performing at a pay phone, an excuse can't be - an alcoholic state. It can be madness, but I don't dare make that kind of diagnosis. I'm not professional enough. I could just, based on the experience I've had with certain MPs in the last four or five years, say, "Listen, this guy looks crazy or doesn't look like him." But I'm not merodative. For this - that drunk people come out for the pay phone, that's what I'm meant for. Marijan Risticevic has so far avoided going out drunk for a pay phone. He didn't resist today. And I accept that the session is interrupted for five minutes, to bring in what's called an alcoholic, or whatever it's called, to blow everyone once in a while, so to whom it shows the green one never to come out for a pay phone again. If it is proved that the predecessor did not drink anything, I accept that I immediately resign as a MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. [[Sagar.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-13-0.u21471	Since you've been acting as a folk MP with the chairman, I'm obliged to remind you that I've interrupted you and the speaker in something forbidden by the Rules of Procedure. It's a direct dialogue. And if you really want to use the dictionary, then by example you should show what kind of dictionary you should use and... You do not have the right to reply (received to Ambassador Risticevic). (Marian Risticevic: Here, I accept.) ) Please continue the work of the assembly session. Insults spoken from the pay phone and interpretation of the Messenger of the people are left behind. The People's MP Stevan Kesejić has the word, and after him, MP Zoran M. Nikolic. (Zagor - laugh, Marijan Risticevic stands next to Stevan Kesejic. You're ready.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-13-0.u21472	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it has already become common, once we get a bill of amendments and additions from this government, to attack the previous regime first, to talk about the past. Today, however, Minister Šumarac was a little more moderate than former Minister Gaš Knezevic, who even went up to 13-14 knees, to the ossuary, he spoke of the great-grandfathers who were guilty of not being brought in the cadastre, which is mostly about the law on the state's diameter and the cataster and the registration of the right to real estate in our country. So, after the predecessors' charges, we expected that the bill would make it all right, as the minister here said, or promised. He said they were just passing this bill to address the shortcomings in earlier laws. However, by reading this law, it could be determined that, apart from some in particular, I would say key things, which are bad for the citizens of Serbia above all, and I'll talk about it later, everything else is just copied. So this, as the minister says, is not just technical law. He's actually political law. If you get a little deeper in the problem of today's situation in Serbia, then it is certainly a political problem, which was the first government of the Republic of Serbia to consider and discuss, i.e. to establish a legal order and the state borders of Serbia. In fact, there's been a lot of talk here about a big job, that it's 5,800 catastrian municipalities, but here, too, there's been a quick realization of this problem, as one member of this law says, it doesn't matter now who, but it's been three years to solve this problem. However, I would like to ask the following question: has the Government of the Republic of Serbia considered those catastrian municipalities to which the enemy states occupied our country are predominant? Have they considered the municipality of Apatin, where the Croatian government already boasts in its media that Minister Svilanovic has promised 10,000 hectares of land belonging to the Republic of Serbia. As for Milka and the media, there's no difference. [[Sagar.]] Please, Madam President, to remind this tasteless lady, who whenever I come out has something, I don't know what she has, so it'll be very suspicious of my wife, that she always shows up when I go out for a pay phone. That is why I propose that this proposal for a law on the cadastral diameter and the entry of immovableity does not mean any new law and that the minister should really write something that would improve this law. One thing is good in this law, and that is to predict private geodetic companies, which could measure and which could actually speed up this whole business, but immediately in collage with the Republic Geodetic Service that has a monopoly on all of this. Namely, the Republic Geodetic Institute is financed from the Republika Srpska budget, while private geodetic firms will be financed from citizens' pockets. It also shows in this law that the fees for obtaining copies of cadastrian diameters and other cadastrian services are high, and the penalties are also high for the current economic situation in our country. I therefore believe that this proposal did not cover all the necessary elements, including the issue of state borders, because Article 40 says that the Director of the Republic Geodetic Institute prescribes: 1) content, form and proportion of plans and basic state map; 2) content, form and proportion of topographic and transparent maps in small scales. Does this mean that the Director of the Republic Geodetic Institute will build new borders or that will be a question that the Government should have considered before the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-13-0.u21473	I find that during the presentation of the last speaker, an electronic system has identified a lack of quorum, as if during the presentation of speakers, some MPs are playing cards and I am obliged as chairman to determine whether there is a quorum for work. I ask the People's MPs to determine the quorum. I would like to inform the present MPs that consultations with the National Assembly President Natasa Micic and the vice-president of the National Assembly will be held tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. in the president's office. I ask all the presidents of the parliamentary groups, so DOS, DSS, SRS, the Soviet Union, New Serbia, the League of Social Democrats Vojvodina and the League for the Shumadi, the DHSS, the Reformist of Vojvodina and the Sandzak Democratic Party, the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians and the Democratic Alternatives to be present at the meeting tomorrow, on Tuesday, May 14th at 9.30 am. The work of the first session will continue tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Thank you.
