ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-05-0.u21823	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the session of the Second Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 126 MPs attend the session. To determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, please insert your identification cards into the MPs. I find that using the electronic system has established that we have a quorum and that we can continue to work. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Stanko Kovacevic and Arsen Kurjački. The morning sessions will not be attended by MP Predrag Stojanovic and MP Meko Omerovic in the afternoon. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. Also, according to members 83 and 84. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that the president of the National Assembly of Ms Natasa Micic invited representatives of the Centre for Free Elections and Democracy, the People's Movement of the Resistance and the National Democratic Institute to this session. I welcome the guests present on behalf of the National Assembly. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: - Proposal for a DECISION ON THE AMENDMENTS OF THE BUSINESS OF THE PEOPLE'S COMMUNITY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA. The president of the SPS parliamentary group, MP Zarko Obradovic, spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-05-0.u21824	Dear Members of Parliament, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, under the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, I am using the right to reply to Mr Dejan Mihajlov's presentation last night at the end of the work of the Assembly, that is, yesterday. In fact, Mr. Mihajlov yesterday used certain qualifications for which he did not present any evidence, that at the time when the Socialists organised the work in the Assembly there was no democracy and that it was the authoritarian way of working of the Assembly. I think Mr. Michael's, and the others, should choose words or make specific facts about what he says. I must say that at that time, when the Socialists themselves or with other parties organised work in the Assembly and when it was based on the Rules of Procedure established by the Assembly in 1994, each MP had the right to speak for 10 minutes on each item of the agenda, in principle and on each amendment which was submitted; that the right of MPs was to submit an unlimited number of amendments to each member of the law; that there were discussions on the proposals of the laws on which the opposition, some of which had now been submitted, and 1,350 and 2,500 amendments; that the opposition then expressed its protest and carried out obstruction of parliament's work in various ways, that it had left parliament for a long period of time, a year and longer, and that none of their rights, from their own income, were further, was denied. There are colleagues who are older in this congregation who can deny this if it isn't true. The Management Board did not meet at the time, nor did it discuss and decide. So much for the duties of Members of the Parliament on permanent work. It is an obligation for MPs to be in the assembly, to be involved in parliament's work to the extent that its parliamentary group defines it, because it is a political assessment. The fact that opposition MPs were then obstructed in a way that some of them also sat on the balcony of this assembly to control the work of parliamentarians who stayed in the hall. So, when comparison is made with the rights of Members of the 1994 Rules of Procedure and this Rules of Procedure that we have been changing for the third time, absolute rights have been much more pronounced in the previous Rules of Procedure. In the end, yesterday the claim was made that there were days when several laws were passed. The opposition had the right to use what was provided for in the Rules of Procedure. Whether or not they wanted to, it was their political assessment and the matter of their commitment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-05-0.u21825	We are continuing to discuss the first item of the agenda. The word is by MP Dragan Jovanovic, followed by MP Milan Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-05-0.u21826	Dear Presidency, fellow MPs, we have before us a proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. This is the third change since the DOS came to power. The first two changes suggested the twilight of parliamentaryism in Serbia. The third change, which is in turn today along with those two in the package, especially the other proposed by the DSS, represents, finally, the twilight of Serbian parliamentaryism. Why do I say that? After the adoption of these amendments and the entry into force of this Rules of Procedure, we will have a Assembly that has MPs elected by the people, who will have the right to speak about the laws in principle for one minute and 12 seconds, perhaps even more if some fellow Members for whom the time stands. We will have a Assembly in which a MP who has been given the right to propose a law will not have the right to propose an amendment to any member of the law proposed by the Government. We will have a assembly in which the MP will not be able to speak about the amendments of other MPs, we will have a assembly in which the president will be able to remove the MP for 90 days, or, when it is calculated calendarly, perhaps for a year. We will have, ladies and gentlemen, a congregation that will work with one-third of the MPs. Is this, ladies and gentlemen, the assembly that DOS promised to the people of Serbia - you did not, ladies and gentlemen, promise such a assembly; there is no such assembly anywhere in the world. There may be somewhere, but not where you promised to bring the citizens of Serbia. If the SPS had proposed such a rules of procedure, only proposed and not adopted, today we would have both the OSCE and various other world human rights organisations, various centres for democracy, independent journalists, we would have one general hickey, with a general estimate of dictatorship. But I hope that one of the independents, who is not afraid, will come forward, will dare to make only one simple honest parallel between the Rules of Procedures you inherited in this assembly and the Rules of Procedure that we will have after the adoption of these amendments. I'd like to say something about the essence of all this. So these are forms, the point is. Essentially, ladies and gentlemen, all of this is the introduction of Serbia into a gradual dictatorship; the goal of all of this is clearly defined and consistently implemented: the introduction of Serbia into a dictatorship through three stages -- the first, the abolition of the president of Serbia, the president's constitutional powers have been taken away, he knows where; so we don't have a president of Serbia; the second, we don't have a Constitutional Court, for two years now; so, two steps of dictatorship have been implemented; the third and most important degree, which is conducted very consecutively, very perfiduously and very well, it's an absolute dissuasion of parliament through several phases. There is Mr Jovanovic right, my last namer Ceda Jovanovic, currently in Serbia is the most hated organ, i.e. the lowest rating institution, with an estimate of one, perhaps a minus one, is the Serbian Parliament and it is not, ladies and gentlemen, by chance. I'll tell you why: it's part of a strategy implemented by DOS gentlemen, some of whom now, when they've finished work, leave parliament; it's part of a big strategy. First, institutionalally humiliate parliament; means through the Rules of Procedure to give the MP a minute and 20 seconds, not to give him the right to submit an amendment, to drive him out of the assembly session, to distance him 90 days, to create a picture with citizens that he is no one and nothing. It's phase one. The second phase - by selective application of the Rules of Procedure, very conventionally, selectively irritate MPs, generate incidents, present MPs as thugs. That's not enough for people to get the impression of parliament. Stage three, introduce the MPs as non-workers, as people who talk about something meaningless. The government did it very perfiduously. Look, 150 points of the agenda, a hundred points completely trivial, with nothing to do with the people. And the people look at the congregation and say, "As long as we live hard, look at what they're talking about." So on that RTS -- DOS -- here, look at the transmission now, 70 percent of the duration of transmission shows DOS MPs reading the paper and solving crosswords. Not by chance, the people identify all MPs, i.e. they identify parliament with that and they say -- look at these, they talk about lame things, they read the papers all the time, what they want us to do with such a parliament. The fourth stage - to show the MPs as highly privileged people, and there are certain gentlemen great masters of gossip. Let's go back, look at the zebra story. The gentleman drew a zebra, the people said - MPs, so you have a special zebra to cross over to, so what do you do is privileges. Look at the story, gentlemen, it's about all of us, about our children and our grandchildren, look at the affair with cookies -- ten days the DOS press, which is under DOS control, talked about cookies, about MPs who, behold, are a little bit of everything, wants cake, while the people don't have bread. An absolutely constructed story to degrade Parliament's reputation. Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen, the orchestrated story of high-income MPs, the most sensitive points where people react, the story of the great receipts of MPs. Here, open the last newspaper - the fabulous receipts of the DSS MPs. What kind of receipts? Well, tell the people that the Belgrade MP has a salary of 19,000, or 20,000, depending on his past work. You are making an impression on the people, and you have created it; the most negatively rated institution is Parliament, the most negative in Parliament are MPs. So the people are tired of Parliament. But why, ladies and gentlemen, that, who has its own goal -- on the one hand, the humiliated parliament, on the other hand, huge money for the government's advert, good government, good boys, boys in Armani suits, on the good road across Serbia. So you have a bad parliament and a good government. The ultimate goal of all of this is to adopt rules of procedure that will take away control of the good guys from the government, to reverse the process with the citizens, so he says -- these good government guys should normally tell the bad guys from Parliament what they're going to do. And we've come to the finals. We've come to the introduction of a dictatorship -- here's the Rules of Procedure, here's the MPs turned into a master's key, who'll be pushing the lightning at the rate of the tasters, and you've replaced even 18 MPs, and you've probably trained them to press the tasters quickly. Those feathers of the Democratic Party no longer need you, for now MPs are something else entirely. Is that the right way, ladies and gentlemen? They'll tell the citizens in the election. However, those who come up with a scenario like this, the scenario of introducing a dictatorship, they will not go to elections. Those who realized that they were going to go to the elections, that the people would give their warning, they were no longer in the DOS, they saw it in time, so they got off the DOS, and they'd probably say these days and the next days that they were never even DOS. Because they have a desire to go to elections, there is a chance for those who are being manipulated within DOS, who are not in this game, there are honest and honest people. So you have a chance to bring back the President, declare a constitutional court; make a little effort, bring one European Rules of Procedure, one, one, any. Here, I'll vote, bring it in a set of whatever European countries you want us to adopt here and work on it. Don't take the most restrictive and the worst out of all the Rules of Procedures. You still have a chance to get better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-05-0.u21827	The word is made by MP Milan Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-05-0.u21828	Dear People's MPs, discussing the draft amendments to the Rules of Procedure that we are working on, we are actually talking about ourselves, discussing our work and talking about the position of the National Assembly in the political system and at the present political moment. This debate, I think, is not in vain. On the contrary, it is necessary, because we have heard a very dramatic assessment of the situation in the Assembly from both the promoters and the people representing the amendments to the Rules of Procedure. We heard, among other things, that the Assembly was blocked. We have heard that the Assembly does not enjoy the reputation of citizens and that the Assembly has no political authority. Of course, if a congregation does not enjoy the reputation among citizens, it is a very serious, tragic political problem. The people who do not believe in their congregation do not believe in the laws that this congregation brings. He does not believe in our ability to pass laws that are useful to citizens, does not believe in our good will to do so, and ultimately does not believe in justice or law; in such situations, of course, most citizens do not believe in politics as such. So the situation is serious; it's more serious if, as we've heard, the Assembly is blocked. The Assembly's blockade, of course, is an inadmissible process because it creates and deepens the political crisis, creating a kind of state of emergency. In parliament's system of blockades, the Assembly is undoubtedly the introduction to state of emergency. All these assessments, which the people who support the proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure, are indeed, I say it without any irony, and fair, and brave and open. I don't mind their efforts to try to overcome that condition. What we are arguing about with the promoter is: what is the cause of the current situation and the current way of working of the Assembly, and what are the ways to overcome the political crisis, caused by the state of the assembly. Before I answer the question directly - does the proposed proposal lead to overcoming the crisis, let me say when the Assembly, this Assembly, this 250 of us sitting here, would have a very high reputation for the people. This assembly would have a reputation for the people that as soon as it was established itself, it had initiated some laws; therefore, if it had waited not only for the government to offer laws, or only political parties, but for MP clubs, and in particular the parliamentary majority, to agree on what laws were necessary to reform the political system in Serbia. Reforming the political system in Serbia is a very important process, and we have acted lightly, we have acted irresponsiblely. The logic prevailed: the fact that other parties and other people came to power - the political system was changed. It's not. It's not because the citizen did not show mistrust to the people of the former government. They showline confidence in a political system. People were looking for a change in the political system. Therefore, the Assembly would enjoy a very high level of confidence that as soon as it was established it passed the party law and, in particular, the party financing law. It is a public secret that the financing of the parties in our country is not entirely legal, that there is also a laundering of dirty money, and a grey economy; it is one of the hubs of corruption in society. We would enjoy a very great reputation among citizens if we had immediately passed a conflict of interest law. We inherited a system in which for 50 years the political oligarchy had the right to interfere in every system, from the economic system to the educational and cultural, and it was quite "natural". Therefore, there was an urgent law on conflict of interest, which we would say to ourselves: no MP can be on any board of directors; no member of the Government can be on any board of directors; no member of the Government can be on the board of directors of the Agency formed by the Government; there must be a strong border between the legislative authority and the executive authority; there must be a clear limit within the executive authority between what the ministries are doing and what the expert bodies formed by those ministries are doing. Professional agencies and professional authorities must function according to the logic of the profession, not the logic of the policy. We would enjoy, of course, the reputation that we have dared to see the social situation in our country, so that we have tried to initiate, together with the unions, the adoption of union laws and the special social solidarity law. You're gonna say it was supposed to be the union, or that it was supposed to be the government. And that was possible. However, the assembly is outside both unions and outside the government, and it should have been a place where the dialogue should be translated into law. We would also enjoy the reputation among citizens that we have passed a clear and pure anti-monopol and anti-corruption law; that we ourselves have initiated the adoption of such a law. Here we passed the Tax Act on Extra Profit; that law was necessary. However, the law, which basically has a spirit of anti-corruption and anti-monopolis law, is being applied backwards. Such laws must be applied in advance. We need to have an anti-monopol and anti-corruption law that limits the current authority that you have, not just that authority that's the former. We couldn't do any of that. We failed - that is the basic reason why the congregation does not enjoy trust. We have failed to reach agreement on key issues of reforming the political system. We didn't feel invited to initiate a reform of the political system. We're waiting for someone else to reform our political system. We are not able to reach agreement on any less important issues than these. We have come into the situation in the Assembly, instead of seeking to reach a consensus -- not just mutually, among the DOS parties, but also with the opposition, because we are in a position where we need everyone's political brains, and when everyone's political goodwill is necessary so that the state and people can get out of the swamp in which we set ourselves on fire -- we have instead started inside the DOS itself to disturb each other. We started to get high on who has the majority, who has the minority. You have begun to perform a parliamentary combination (which is, of course, acceptable) and to form a majority that is not proportionate to the reputation and influence that most enjoy in the people. That's all, of course, possible to do. It's all allowed to do, but it's not good to do that. It should not be done because in that case we are in a position to realize: what was in the sphere of our responsibility we have not done. Instead of working together to reform the state, we began to be exclusive to each other. You've started to act pragmaticly in this sense: we only need the majority, we don't need a qualified or quality majority, we don't need good and smart laws, we don't need amendments from the opposition -- we need to do the job quickly. The proposal Mr Cedomir Jovanovic made does not lead to the resolution of these problems; for, gentlemen, the problems are not in the technique of our work. Problems are not protocolal; the Assembly will not lose authority just because one of us will speak rudely, in intonation or in the dictionary. (Finally, we have older institutions than the assembly, such as -- bar, theater, movie, street, where it is also cursing, so no institution has lost its reputation. ) Therefore, the Rules of Procedure are not a matter of protocol. It's a matter of political character. The question is, Mr. Jovanovic, do we want to have a Assembly that will commit itself to making as high-quality laws as possible, or do we have a Assembly that will be "functional". You have suggested that this Assembly be functional, understanding it this way: The Assembly will be an organ that will quickly, less - more carefully, adopt and pass the laws proposed by the Government. It's not a proper support to the government. It's not a proper relationship with the government. The democratic forces of Serbia, which formed the government, formed it as the best at the moment; but it is not the only government these forces could form. The assembly shouldn't tie its fate to that government. After all, it would be much more useful for the government if we had done our function in the control of the executive government properly, which means that every month we brought here a minister to refer to us - what condition he found in his portfolio; what he did to correct this situation; which the change strategy was anticipated and conjectured; and at what pace he intends to make that change. That would be the true function of the Assembly. The congregation would be much more functional than it is now. Do we have time to regain the authority of the Assembly? We don't. The proposal we are discussing does not go towards this concept of the Assembly that I was talking about - that the Assembly should be a responsible legislative body that has a legislative initiative and which is obliged to implement a reform of the political system, but the second concept prevailed. This concept is the shortest part of this - the Assembly should be an agency for the recycling of communist laws, and the government is increasingly offering us such an offer, or should be an import agency and the non-critical distribution of laws recommended by the powerful from the West.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-05-0.u21829	The word has a People's MP Nebojsa Jovic, and the next declared word is MP Djordje Mamula.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-05-0.u21830	Dear Members of the People, within the meaning of Articles 157 and 158. The Rules of Procedure, the president of the DOS parliamentary group, submitted a proposal to amend and supplement the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The justification of the proposal is contained in Article 82. The Constitution, I do not dispute; however, I do not want to and will never forget the amendment of the Rules of Procedure of October 2001, when many of the rights of the Members of the People were seized, which was contrary to Articles 11, 23, 45, 46, 77. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Since the DOS came to power this is the third amendment to the 1994 Rules of Procedure which you, when you were the opposition, called a dictatorial one. The "dictator's Rules of Procedure" was a form of democracy compared to what you're offering. This is worse than the worst. This is the introduction to the dictatorial Rules of Procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure, which has been in force since 1994, the MP had the right to speak about each item of the agenda for ten minutes, to submit an amendment to each member of the law and to discuss his amendment and the amendment of fellow MPs. On the amendments of October 2001, you have limited the time to discuss each item of the agenda to five hours, and by the power of the parliamentary group you have set the SPS 44 minutes, which is one minute and 12 seconds per MP. The parliamentary groups that have a large number of MPs will not be able to give each MP the right to speak, as everyone today cannot talk about the Rules of Procedure; it is the right to speak, not the parliamentary groups, the right to have a word, to have freedom of speech; this is what you do that abolishes the basic principle, which is the principle of parliamentaryism. The MP represents the citizens who elected him, and they will give judgment on how the MP was acting in the congregation and what he was saying. You can't do like you did, but that's what most of you adopted. And Article 77. The constitution stipulates that the MP does not have the right to call for criminal responsibility, detention or punishment for a voiced opinion and vote in the National Assembly; however, you adopted it according to the Rules of Procedure and it is valid, and now you are planning to remove MPs from the National Assembly 90 working days. As a reason for making a decision, you cite experience in the work of the National Assembly so far and point to the need to amend certain provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in order to make the work of the National Assembly more effective and rational. If the National Assembly was not rational, it lies in a large number of laws that were anti - constitutional, unspeakable and demanded a great share of the MPs. However, the inefficient work of the Assembly during the past period is primarily in the disorderly arrival of DOS MPs who are obliged to provide quorum. It's the right of the opposition to obstruct in that part. The MPs of the DOS did not come to the Assembly because they sat on boards, in the solemn stands and together with the members of the government enjoyed some collective self-satisfaction that the situation in Serbia was good, the maltenes to flow honey and milk; however, contact with reality is quite different. The reality for Serbian citizens is devastating. We MPs of the opposition won't give a quorum. This is our right and no administrative measures and criminal provisions will force us to give a quorum. You're resorting to amendments to article 82. The Rules of Procedure, which states in paragraph 2, "The quorum for the work of the National Assembly exists if at least 1/3 of the MPs are present at the meeting of the National Assembly." It's not a quorum, it's a collection of MPs. So you wouldn't have a problem, I'm surprised you didn't suggest that the quorum in the principle debate is one-third of the heads of parliament. Until the president of the assembly schedules a day for voting, MPs who have the right and who want to speak will speak in front of a half-empty hall, in most cases read the newspaper, resolve crosswords; but it is important for Serbian citizens to hear what the MPs are saying, and they will give the right assessment in elections that are inevitable. So, you bring a dictatorial Rules of Procedure, you slowly introduce us into dictatorship, and on the subject - the dictatorship of democracy many of you will doctorate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-05-0.u21831	The word has the People's Messenger Djordje Mamula, and the next reported word is Djura Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-05-0.u21832	In yesterday's interview with Ms. Natasa Micic, a daily newspaper said the Serbian parliament deserved to enter a book of record by the number of sessions and adopted acts. This year alone, the Assembly has held 46 days, and since its constitution it has passed 63 laws and more than 130 other acts. If these are facts, there is a question of why the amendments to the Rules of Procedure, if the current Rules of Procedure, in addition to all faults, have enabled a solid pace of work for this Parliament, there is a question which is the real reason for the change of Rules of Procedure. One procedure in parliament, which I would call an expression of aggressive loyalty, has led to an excess which can't be justified by anything. You can explain yourself. This loyalty has prompted one another's extorted loyalty to immediately present a proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure, which, as it has been addressed earlier, looks like the rules of procedure, rather than the rules of procedure governing the work of the country's parliament that presupposes it to be democratic. On the other hand, it means he's nervously responding, he's resorting to threats and aggression, which is the best sign of losing authority. The DSS parliamentary club is based on the state's need to be effective and its authority is based on the freedom of citizens, of course by civilized criteria. How has this Rules of Procedure changed, or this proposal? It would be good if the promoters first said which rules of procedure served as an example of reputation, as a man they looked up to and on the basis of which they made this proposal. It would help us who don't know how to look for these ideas in these Rules of Procedures, so maybe that's why we're doing the same thing. One of the questions that was raised here is why there's no quorum. You should have looked for some solutions to see how some democratic states handled it. The quorum is secured in these countries by the session starting with parliamentary issues. The prime minister is obliged to ensure the presence of several ministers who will answer questions. The order of questions, i.e. the right to ask questions, is determined by the order of registration on the counter, so those who came first have the advantage of asking questions. It's called the current clock. The Prime Minister is obliged to ensure the presence of several ministers himself. The questions raised in the government's jurisdiction must be brief, clear, no tricks, no tricks, so that they can be answered, and the Minister and the Prime Minister have an obligation to respond immediately, i.e. to explain why they cannot respond immediately and to respond as soon as possible. We have parliamentary questions in the last place. When the agenda is exhausted, it comes to a series of parliamentary issues; several times there have been cases to provoke the disappearance of the quorum and the issues become meaningless. That's why I think the Rules of Procedure should have been arranged and suggested. When it comes to models that have served as an example of reputation, it is very important to respect the architects of the Rules of Procedure or the laws from which solutions are taken. That's not what I'm saying. That's what those who wrote books say. If only a partial solution is taken, and the other one is not, it's a bad law, in this case a bad Rules of Procedure. Of course, not only did the excess serve as a reason for amending the Rules of Procedure, but also for MPs to be disciplined. However, as suggested, it is more like the meddling of MPs than discipline. According to this new proposal, the MP is not an officer but more soldiers under contract. It can be understandable that soldiers under contract are soldiers in the world of the military and the army, and it is specially arranged and therefore armies and armies survive because of these special relationships. This should not apply to the Rules of Procedure and to the MPs. One of my concerns is that when it comes to taking away words, or away from the session, it now proposes that the speaker of the assembly decide to do so. According to the rules of procedure of the European states, which we at the Democratic Party's parliamentary club could look at, if the president of the assembly decides on a distance then the MP who is far away has the right to object. He has the right to object to that decision for 48 hours, and then the congregation decides. It can mitigate that measure, confirm it or consider that the measure is unfounded and that decision is final. It was also meant to take over as one of the ideas that exists and that is the fruit of long-term experience. That is why I believe that this amendment of the Rules of Procedure should also have been a fruit of broader consultation with all parliamentary groups who wish to participate in this. I think the Rules of Procedure should be changed, there are weaknesses. Of course, it is not a new idea for the debate to take place without a quorum; however, when it comes to decision-making in the rules of procedure, there is a difference between the two-thirds majority, which is necessary for more important decisions, and the ordinary majority. It should also have been taken over from the rules of procedure of modern states with a proven democracy, because I think it's nothing wrong to copy other people's good solutions. That is why I propose that this proposal be withdrawn, that a discussion be held with representatives of the parliamentary groups and that those who really have serious proposals or copies of the proposal propose an amendment to this Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-05-0.u21833	The word is by MP Dusan Cvetkovic, followed by MP Dragan Jocic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-05-0.u21834	The Honorable Presidency, esteemed fellow MPs, although I do know that this time, as my Leskovci would say, I speak bamboo, but at the moment of the introduction of the DOS parliamentary dictatorship, I must listen to the words of my old people who say, "You'd better be free of charge than you're free to keep your mouth shut." As Serbian citizens are deceived by that famous DOS three "r" - reform and I don't know what to do next, so this time this government wants to re-emerge with its famous three "r" delusions of this parliament and turn, as we Socialists say, into rigidity, remandism and, I would say, destruction. For the third time in this term, respected fellow Members of Parliament, in order for the government to be effective, to "fasten" their work and law-making, it is acting on the order of amendments to the Rules of Procedure, and as of today, the Serbian parliament will practically become Hyde Park in which the position and opposition can speak to the walls of this hall, empty benches and a handful of present MPs voluntarily, and in which day it will certainly stop the possibility of talking about this to our voters. We do not dispute from the SPS that there is some Rules of Procedure in which a third of the MPs are required, but surely on the globe of the Earth, and I do not know whether there is such a rulebook in the universe, which has collected from all European Rules of Procedures the greatest restrictions and installed them in a "democratic" Rules of Procedure, which is due to pass in this House today. It's already been known that you've restricted us last time, so I have the right 1.1 minutes to speak. You know that for those spoken words in one minute we could be punished with so much money, but today you introduce that for spoken words in one minute a man can be excluded for 90 days -- it's one session, and in the year there are two. So I don't think there's any need to talk about the rigidity of what we're discussing today. You are introducing voting days, you are likely to want to exceed the record you have recently reached in the adoption of the Ministry Act (in 1.26 minutes you passed the law), to invite lawmakers to come to the meeting in order to be saved and to complete the session in less than half a minute, because they will be voted at once. There is much to mention; however, I cannot imagine that in the head of someone there is an idea to prevent 80 and several MPs from being present, and to ban practically three million people, who are to be heard through the MPs of this Parliament, from being able to participate in the parliamentary debate. What about DOS three million people? It's a handful of people, because you're superhumans and three million for you is nothing. It is important that you create a mechanism with this rules of procedure that everything the Government has said is best, that the Assembly cannot distract the government, that the government become the head of parliament because it cannot, because of today's Assembly, quickly implement its three "r". Since I don't have much time, let me tell you the other "r" that we know you're baptizing, and we socialists say rematchism. Is it because of the speech, according to this Rules of Procedure, for all that today is not good for us who think so, we must endure legal, criminal and not know all the measures, including Mr. Michael, who is the only one from the second part of the sentence? Do you expect us from the opposition to praise the government, to give you better legitimacy? You want to force the SPS MPs to give you every word of praise. Finally, since I have little time, let me tell you, respected voters - expect, my citizens, that within a few days, there will be a ban on TV transmission, because the orchestrated DOS via Baby Popovic creates a picture that it is a shame to pass on the principle debate, that it is a shame to watch the hall with 86 MPs, that it is a shame to spend it in this way labor, pension, this money, the money. You "dear viewers" will say - Parliament should not be transferred and will not be abolished by the government but will be abolished by Baby Popovic or I don't know who. When you punish us, you call us criminals, murderers and thieves, and the chairman of this has only a mild smile; when we say something against the government, a thousand times less dangerous than what you say about the Government of Mirko Marjanovic, you create a situation that is a crime and you immediately reach for the measures of punishment. Isn't that obvious rematchism? In the end, there is no Mr. Chad, but I must say, in your mind there is a rematchism and you agree with what little Chad says, and you know who the people called Chad. That's why I'm telling you, you can do whatever you want for us from the SPS. We'll make it through the worst. [[growls]] I remind you, dear colleagues, remember what our only Nobel laureate Andric said: "What doesn't hurt is not life, and what doesn't pass is not happiness." Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-05-0.u21835	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Dragan Jocic, and since you are the last registered speaker from the DSS parliamentary group, the remaining time is 12 minutes. The next registered speaker is MP Branko Ruzic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-05-0.u21836	Dear MPs, the debate on the Rules of Procedure is always a political debate, its changes are always triggered by certain political intentions. That's the way it is with these rules of procedure. However, what is the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? It's an internal act that regulates the organization and way of working this home. So we ask ourselves, why is the government getting involved in this? Some MPs, as well as the president and representative of the DOS parliamentary group, said that this is not true, that these amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure are, in fact, the fruit of the work of the DOS parliamentary group, and so is it. He is the formal proposer of this Rules of Procedure; however, the essential proposer is the Government of the Republic of Serbia, intended to change the Rules of Procedure and put parliament on the limits of insignificantness; she did not even bother to formally hide it. Here is a document of the government of the Republic of Serbia (shows paper) where the government determines the next agenda, and says, "The proposal for a decision to amend and supplement the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly", and then goes two, three, four and all other points of the agenda. It is simply amazing that the government has established the agenda, that the execution would establish the agenda of the legislative body. This document is signed by Vice-President Zarko Korac, and the abused MP or instrument of the government of the Republic of Serbia here was Mr Cedomir Jovanovic. He's a formal promoter. However, a real promoter and a real entity that wanted to change the way the country's government works is. This Rules of Procedure is just one of the measures that the DOS will take to ensure its majority, to put the DSS on the margin and take 10 mandates necessary to the DOS to continue on the path it is going. I must refer to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and say that it is full of powers given to the Government, which is what the Government can actually put above parliament and be the controller of the work of the Assembly. One of the rigid solutions, and I think the DOS would reach for such a solution, but then shut down its government, that's the solution Milosevic made, proposed by the former Socialist government in 1992-93 by Slobodan Milosevic -- and he disbanded the Assembly. This government will not dare to make such a radical move, but it will certainly use such a thing as the motion for an extraordinary session of the Assembly, for which it has proposed, as I said, the agenda. The content of the amendments to the Rules of Procedure is such that it exclusively protects the interests of the Government to be assisted, if this is well analysed, by MPs who will be blackmailed. It seems better to me that the Government has used Article 79(3) so that it has put on the agenda what its constitutional, legal and obligations are according to the Rules of Procedure, which is to inform us at least once a year what it is doing. It's actually the essential work of a ruling coalition that needs to be carried out here and that the prime minister comes up with all those reports of what he did in a year and a half. Not to be reluctant and, in fact, the bad path that the state of Serbia is going to put on MPs. What's the point? The point is that the government has power but has no power; it has a position, but its power is slowly shrinking. The question has been asked: How to reach power? How to ensure that the government is strong, that it is legitimate? There are several instruments that have so far affected: one is the subversive functioning of the government, it is by indirect abolition of political organisations, through the verification of the status of individual groups within the same political organisation, by abuse of the Ministry of Justice, registering or maintaining the existence of the political parts of the DOS that correspond to it. Another way is hidden: through certain blackmails, threats and personal pressures. To remind us: Mr Branislav Ivkovic, former SPS vice president; when the DSS objected to taking immunity on the basis of only one argument, other DOS representatives insisted that Branislav Ivkovic be taken up office immediately. However, it is strange that yesterday and at last meeting of the DOS Administrative Committee and its representatives protect Branislav Ivkovic (President: Mr. Jocic, please return to the agenda topic. [[growls]] ) The third way the Government of the Republic of Serbia operates through parliament is the one that will follow in two or three days, which is the withdrawal of mandates that are not even DOSs. DOS is not a political organisation, it is never registered as a coalition, it is simply a set of 19 political parties... (President: Mr. Jocic, please return to the agenda theme, and these are amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure. ) Finally, we go the fourth way, and that is the restrictive Rules of Procedure. There's a lot of teachers here and people who do the right thing. Is it normal for an MP to prevent 90 congregation working days from coming and not saying, to prevent him from voting for 90 days and thus conveying what is legitimacy, which is the will of the voters who chose him. Next, in the case of amendments; as one of the instruments amending the law and to it is an undeniable direct explanation before it is adopted. Simply today, the concept of voting has been absurd, so the debate on amendments is not necessary at all. Finally, two types of MPs; the introduction of a working relationship is about to be introduced and the labour inspector is about to control lawmakers who are in constant work and who are not on permanent work. The essence of the MPs is not that, nor have we founded a working relationship with the Serbian Parliament, nor with the president of the Serbian Parliament, but it is simply for us, and the right to compensation came from what is called voters. No one, after all, can take it away. It may be taken not through the status of the MP at work, but through elections. That's what the proposer of this law should have meant. In the end, let me also quote one DOS representative who spoke passionately here yesterday, that it is true that this is no longer public information that the borders of virtual Serbia are Karlobag - Ogulin - Virovitica. It is true that he no longer threatens in this House with rusty spoons and forks. The truth is that it is no longer going into statements that in the worst possible way offend other religions and nations, but, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, through this place, are carrying out the same intentions that were adorned by Milosevic's government, which is that the unsustained government.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-05-0.u21837	The right to replicate, MP Cedomir Jovanovic, mentioned in the act's proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-05-0.u21838	I was also mentioned as a promoter and as a representative of the DOS parliamentary group. I would just like to remind Mr Jocic that, given the too frequent absences from the session of the Republic's parliament, he failed to inform MPs and the public that, together with the DOS representatives on the Administrative Committee, representatives of the DSS were also abstained, in which case the committee discussed the SPS request to withdraw immunity from Branislav Ivkovic. Allow the Administrative Board to make a quality and valid decision without such a kind of political manipulation. Don't bring domestic problems into parliament, because that's what your party's representatives were looking for. You have three representatives on the Administrative Board and none of them supported the SPS's request, but was detained, as well as our representatives, due to identified irregularities in the initiative. That's what the SPS disagrees with. They have reason to open the problem once more and the Administrative Committee will work on it. But you said someone was manipulating Branislav Ivkovic, and you were actually acting the way the Democratic Opposition of Serbia acted. She didn't want to get her hands dirty with SPS business, or anything like that in the future. The second topic, also very important -- you have raised a question that will be discussed by the Administrative Committee unless you respect the coalition presidency's initiative with whose assistance and consent you have been elected as a MP. Social democracy is a party that, among other things, the president of your party has survived within our coalition by finding that the coalition has mandates, not parties. If that could be signed in May of last year by Vojislav Kostunica, it will also be true in the case of the sanctioning of rioting and irresponsible MPs. I suggest we stay out of this controversy, because the signatures are concrete, just and applicable at all times.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-05-0.u21839	Replication rights, MP Zoran Angelkovic, authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-05-0.u21840	Ladies and gentlemen, that is the essence of the debate on this Rules of Procedure, on what is the right of the Administrative Committee. In fact, this Rules of Procedure gives that right even more to the Administrative Committee, to be the government of this congregation, not something else. The Management Board is not in charge of voting on whether or not to remove an MP's term of office, but rather to establish an actual state of affairs. The Law on Elections says very precisely that the MP's mandate ceases: 1) when he is expelled from the party, 2) when he resigns irrevocably and 3) by death. It has been clearly delivered here to the Administrative Board by the Assembly and the Party's authorities that a member of the SPS has been excluded, but it is also clear that you have not put it on the agenda, not that you have not considered it. You didn't put on the agenda because you actually want to make fake conventions, as well as fake insiders, false witnesses in this congregation, because you want to change the relationship of strength. You do this in two ways: one is by disfellowshipping MPs from the Assembly, by providing for a parliamentary majority, and the other by stealing foreign MPs from other parliamentary groups. It is not fair to the citizens, because it is the citizens who determine who will have how many MPs. I'm not interested in your mutual relations and what you're doing on the Administrative Board, but in implementing the law and establishing a factual state of termination.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-05-0.u21841	The word is by MP Petar Cvetkovic, as a member of the Administrative Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-05-0.u21842	Ladies and gentlemen, as a member of the Administrative Board, in front of the DSS, I have to react to Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic's misrepresentation here. It was a session of the Administrative Board yesterday, when Mr Jovanovic attended. However, the previous session was, I think, on 22 May (possibly a day before or after) when, on a proposal from a member of the Administrative Committee from the parliamentary group of the rest of the DOS, it was proposed to take off the agenda the findings that Mr Branislav Ivkovic had suspended his mandate and, at the request of the SPS, because of the termination of membership in the political party. The reasons for the request to withdraw from the agenda were that the members of the Administrative Board do not have the Statute of the SPS, have no confirmation, or returnees of the decision delivered, have no evidence of whether the decision is rightful and final. At that session of the Administrative Board, the members of the DSS, all three members of the Administrative Board, were abstained on this request to be removed from the agenda. So, there was no vote not to take the mandate, but to take it off the agenda. We did not want to enter these bickerings and in this way work where a member of the rest of the DOS requires the SPS statutes, the programme, the evidence of the solution delivered, or the decision to exclude, and the decision to appeal. At yesterday's session of the Administrative Committee, where Mr Jovanovic also attended, a member of the SPS's Administrative Board demanded that the session be placed on the agenda. The session's agenda has been denied. The agenda of the session was not planned either, but according to a proposal from a member of the SPS, a member of the Administrative Board, it was refused to be put on the agenda of the session. Once again, DSS members did not interfere with each other between the rest of the DOS and the SPS, they were held back. (Zarko Obradovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-05-0.u21843	On what basis are you answering? (Zarko Obradovic: Replic of the People's MP Peter Cvetkovic.) ) The replica on behalf of the parliamentary group was used by Mr Zoran Angelkovic. You didn't mention it. Mr Jovanovic mentioned members of the DSS Committee. Please use the second line as a parliamentary group with two different representatives.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-05-0.u21845	There's no reason to be upset. I also speak as a member of the Administrative Committee and as president of the parliamentary group, as Mr Cvetkovic mentioned the parliamentary group. Yesterday, at the meeting of the Administrative Committee, I asked members of the committee to complete the agenda at the point where the Administrative Board should determine the termination of the mandate to the disfellowshipped SPS member Branislav Ivkovic. I then informed the Administrative Board that on 27 May the decision of the General Committee of the SPS on the exclusion of Branislav Ivković from the membership, the appeal of Professor Branislav Ivković at the decision of the General Committee, the decision of the Constitutional Commission of the SPS, the authority and solution for Zoran Angelković, the Secretary-General of the Party, to represent the SPS, that the Statute of the SPS was delivered to the National Assembly, that the Regulation on the disciplinary procedure in the SPS was delivered to the National Assembly, and I, and the other members, were there, a funny explanation - that they had not received material, or the Committee had not received material from the Assembly, but yesterday we decided to withdraw the mandate of the SRS on the basis of the requirements that arrived in the Assembly on 3 June. Therefore, it is obvious that DOS does not want to conclude and does not want to respect the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-05-0.u21846	There is a word from MP Branko Ruzic, and the SPS parliamentary group has two registered speakers and a five-minute time.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-05-0.u21847	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens, when you hear everything happening in the parliament of Serbia and in the Administrative Committee of that Parliament, then it is clear to all of us that the really extraordinary elections at all levels are the only way out of this difficult situation in which the state is located. As for this Rules of Procedure, or the draft Rules of Procedure that we are discussing here, on the third of January of last year, I must point out to you that the 1992 Rules of Procedure, which was brought by the SPS, since it had a majority in parliament at the time, was the image of democracy and was practically the most liberal Rules of Procedure on the work of one assembly, not only in these premises, but also in Europe, and you accused us of not being Democrats and that we had authoritarian authority. As a result, you should really be ashamed, given this third proposal; and the respective DOS parliamentary group said yesterday in its presentation that the DOS had proposed that this point be put on the agenda, speaking of the Rules of Procedure. So, given to the DOS parliamentary group, you know him, of course. Well, what difference does it make if you explain that the constitutional basis for making this decision is contained in Article 82. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia (and that is only good and true of what you have put forward in this proposal) according to which the National Assembly regulates its work and organisation and how the rights and duties of Members of Parliament are exercised. What does it mean in practice - it means usurping all functions of government by the executive government, or the government of the Republic of Serbia, or translated into Serbian, Zoran Djindjic; it means trying to introduce institutional dictatorship and dictatorship at all levels in our country. The Rules of Procedure himself represent practically one attempt to create a nursery, and from Ms. Micic, our teacher, who will share the reproof here, to remove us from the sessions, that 90 days because of something we said, and perhaps Zoran Djindjic may not like, we cannot attend the Assembly, that a third of the total number of MPs can create quorum, and that is something that this assembly should look like. However, it seems that both Mr Djindjic and the DoS MP groups are suffering from amnesia, so they cannot remember that they have invested, for example. The Law on Local Self-Government 2,500 amendments, and it never occurred to anyone to make a more rigid or restrictive Rules of Procedure than we allowed them to. The obstruction, therefore, was present and legitimate at the time of the socialist government; it was a government that is the image of democracy, not the one that is now trying to seduce the dictatorship. As far as these penalties are concerned, this represents practically blackmail and does not mean anything else, but the SPS parliamentary group and its MPs will, of course, not agree to these blackmails, and what the distinguished Mr Jocic has brought here at the pay phone is just saying that there is an DS band and an attempt by Zoran Djindjic to make a pre-region of the composition in the republican parliament and thus to obtain legitimacy and support for the disastrous balance of his rule by 2004, since the Priory refuses the possibility of calling elections at all levels, or parliamentary elections. Of course, as far as the SPS is concerned, no registration of Vladan Batic or anyone else will mean anything, given that, if necessary, the SPS will vote in court and, if necessary, otherwise.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-05-0.u21848	Mr. Ruzic, please return to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-05-0.u21849	I am very much on the subject, Mrs Micic, given that it is a fact, and here we have heard from many MPs that it is indeed happening. Therefore, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, since you are likely to adopt this Rules of Procedure, be assured that when we come to power we will not change it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-05-0.u21850	The word is made by MP Bojan Pajtic, chairman of the Legislative Committee, on the basis of Article 89(2). Rules of Procedure, five minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-05-0.u21851	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I did not report at the beginning of the debate, because I did not see the need for such a thing, but after we heard from this speaker that this Rules of Procedure is undemocratic because it defines one-third of the MPs as a quorum for the work of the Assembly, after we heard that the President of the Assembly gets discretionary rights, that we are one parliamentary assembly, that the President of the Assembly is first amongst the equal, that the Rules of Procedure is no less than constitutional, that the Government is the Prosecutor of Rules, that the majority of parliament is responsible for the work of Parliament, that the DOS does not want a constitutional court, I felt the need to clarify, first of all, some formal and legal ambiguity. It has been said that the Rules of Procedure are not democratic because it defines that there must be at least a third of the MPs present to make the work valid. I would like to remind you that in Article 61 of the French Rules of Procedure, it is only necessary to provide for a majority to decide, and that according to Rule 43 of the same Rules of Procedure, only one third of the Members of Parliament are sufficient to decide on boards. In the Rules of Procedure of the English Parliament, the lower home, according to article 41, requires 40 MPs as a quorum for work, and I remind you that this parliament is at least twice as large by the number of MPs as it is the Serbian parliament. It is the same situation in the Hungarian, American, Israeli, Norwegian, Danish, Finnish parliament; if anyone has any doubt about it, he can be sure, I will be happy to give him an insight into the copies of these Rules of Procedure. Give me at least one Rules of Procedure that defines the need for an absolute majority of MPs to work in the congregation. Furthermore, it has been said that this Rules of Procedure are anti-constitutional on the basis of Rule 80, and I note that, although Article 80 provides for decisions to be made by the majority of MPs, amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure, all legal acts are to be adopted in voting days, and the disciplinary measures are to be decided by the President of the Assembly and the infringements of the Rules of Procedures of the Administrative Board and that there is no more formal or material law for the Republic Assembly to decide on these two issues. It was further discussed that the Government is the proponent of the Rules of Procedure. Formal-legislative Rules of Procedure have therefore defined the work and organisation of parliament; in this respect, the Government has neither the right nor any way interfered with the making of the Rules of Procedure. It has been said that the assembly majority is responsible for Parliament's work, which is absolute nonsense. Under the law of the rights and duties of the MPs, they are exactly the same; there is no difference between the rights and duties of the MPs of the opposition; the salaries received by the MPs are exactly the same, regardless of whether they are MPs of the position or opposition. The responsibility of the assembly majority towards the government, according to the executive authority that it has established above all, is internal political responsibility within those political parties proposed by MPs, or on whose lists MPs have been elected. This cannot in any way justify the irresponsibility and haughtiness of lawmakers who are taking funds from taxes, funds from taxpayers' pockets and budgets, and do not fulfil their parliamentary obligations. The president of the assembly was said to be the first amongst the equal - it is completely incorrect. I suppose colleagues are making an analogy with the Sanitary Assembly, where the patriarch is said to be the first among the equals, but that's not in a formal and legal sense either. The President of the Republic of Serbia's Assembly, according to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, is a man, or person who calls for parliamentary elections, who sets out elections for the President of the Republic, that is a man who performs his duties as President of the Republic if the president of the Republic ceases his term of office before the legal deadline expires. When you create such an atmosphere and you claim such a thing, it is natural for us to have a physical attack in this House on the President of the Assembly when the basic institutions of this society are being demeaned. There is something that is unrecorded in European parliamentary practice, or at least unrecorded after World War II. There were conflicts of MPs in parliament, but - an attack on the speaker of the assembly absolutely not. What we have had in this Parliament in the previous days results in European and civilised democratic countries far more serious consequences than the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Physical prevention of the work of the highest legislative body is nothing more than a violation of one country's legal order, past the Rules of Procedure and beyond any other basis, where the work of this Parliament is physically prevented; it is nothing more than a violation of the foundations of the rule of law and in this sense, the democratic country responds to the bans of such political parties. It has been said that the Democratic Opposition of Serbia does not want the Constitutional Court, and very well-known, or at least whoever studied the Law on the Election of Judges of the Constitutional Court, that the President of the Republic of the Assembly is proposing judges of the Constitutional Court. [[Sagar.]] Well, if that president of the Republic doesn't listen to those and cancels obedience to those who forged elections in Kosovo and Metohija to become president of the Republic, how do you expect him to be cooperative with the DOS. In that sense, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, those who claim that there are no business offices such as the Serbian Rules of Procedure, which is foreseen by the amendments and additions of the Rules of Procedure, will be very happy to give these Rules of Procedure and we will be happy to translate them for you. [[Sagar.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-05-0.u21852	I thank Mr. Pitiæ. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, whether they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 89. Rules of Procedure? (Employer Angelkovic asks for a word. You don't have the right to a replica, if you're looking for a replica. There's no basis for replication. Here's a word from the People's Parliament of Hope Kolundzija, president of the DOS-Democratic Alternative Group. [[Sagar.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-05-0.u21853	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will not comment on the solutions of this Rules of Procedure. I felt responsible, in a way, that on behalf of the people sitting here and on behalf of the entire DOS, I would say a few things that are here, I think, crucial. So, not many deny that these solutions were taken from the English Rules of Procedure, but they tell us: The English have reached it for 200 years -- well, I guess we don't need to go faster; maybe they expect us to come back and learn a lesson again. They do not dispute that these solutions were seen in the world, but they slow our intentions. So, the English probably wanted parliament to make it more efficient, more representative, worthy of every Englishman who looks at that parliament, and they had the right to do so. Our intentions, it seems, are not so, but our intentions are far more corrupt, and so our intention is to end democracy. That's what those who are not opposition tell us, they're the previous government that arrested its political insolents, persecuted its citizens, called fascists, killed journalists. They're telling us that we're trying to stifle democracy. They say it is our intention to hide the truth from the public of Serbia. That's what those whose truth is -- over a million and two hundred thousand refugees, a completely ruined economy. I'm talking about the intentions of making a Rules of Procedure, and I'm very much sticking to the subject. [[sagar, voices - theme]] They say our intentions are to hide the truth. I call on them to speak the truth here every time and to say that Kosovo and Metohija are under international occupation thanks to their policy; that the south of Serbia was part of the territory excluded from the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Let them tell that truth. No one's defending them. What they call truth is empty patriotism. I fall into the more regular sitting here, and whatever the subject is they need to talk and prove their patriotism. Whatever the subject is they're talking about democracy. The third intention that we are being challenged is the intention to introduce order in this parliament, to make this parliament something that Serbia's citizens will not be ashamed of. They say this isn't a school and no one can treat us like students. That's right. But for Serbian citizens, we are the school that Serbia should look like -- if it looks like this these months, then the citizens of Serbia are ashamed of this parliament. And somebody says -- and he swears at the bar, so the cafes don't drop the ratings. But when parliament starts to look like a bar, it has to drop its ratings. Parliament cannot look like a bar if we want Serbian citizens to respect those who chose them, to respect themselves. They say that MPs must not be disciplined and that MPs look about like white bears, protected, they have no obligation, they have only rights that no one can touch. Let's ask the citizens if they think it's us! I don't think I came here because no one should question my responsibilities, my disciplines and my responsibilities. They all have the right to place citizens, that is, if we are responsible here, we have the right to set it ourselves. That's why I think this Rules of Procedure, probably like no Rules of Procedure, can't solve the problem of what some have brought from home. No Rules of Procedure can resolve anyone's intention to destroy something. It's hard to fight there, but I believe that, perhaps, in this Rules of Procedure, we'll still be able to minimize all of this to a minimum and do what some are arguing about again and say: this is not a company that needs to have an effect, which means that we could spend four years in an endless story of everything and everything without doing anything. DOS got most of it because citizens expect it to change the system. The system can only be changed through laws. (Glasses: And the Constitution? ) We will change the constitution when we know whether Serbia is part of some community of states or Serbia is an independent state; then we will be able to define the Constitution of Serbia, and you know it better because you are more involved. So this Parliament must work and measure its impact, because we must move faster than other countries in transition. They did it 10 years ago, then they started on that road, and we're more than 12 years late, because in these 12 years, we've gone back. We have to be effective; unfortunately, the measure of efficiency will measure citizens, that's true, but the measure of efficiency we have to measure ourselves; say if we're not effective, we're going to eliminate it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-05-0.u21854	Are any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, answering for a word? Please, MP Zoran Angelkovic, authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-05-0.u21855	First of all, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the Rules of Procedure are an internal act of Members of Parliament to resolve the relations between MPs, MPs' groups and the way laws are passed. If we agree on this issue, then I suppose it is logical, moral and fair that the Rules of Procedure are done in a proportionate manner by all representatives of the parliamentary groups. The Rules of Procedure are not the property of the parliamentary majority, but of all MPs; it should be the best criterion and a way to create and adopt in the democratic atmosphere, great, whether we did so, I will say that... laws that are in the interest of citizens. Is that what we did? A good question: In 1993, more specifically in early 1994, a committee was formed to draft a Rules of Procedure and in that commission, whose rules of procedure had been in force until 2001, meaning seven years, were also representatives of the Democratic Party, Mr Dusan Bajec and Zoran Vacic, Mr Pal Shandor, then there were also MPs from New Democracy Zarko Jokanovic and, of course, representatives of the SPS. So that's exactly what we were doing; because it was done by representatives of different political parliamentary parties, who were here in this House, that's why he had been doing business for seven years and that's why he was in the interest of MPs, and as such he was in the interest of passing appropriate laws. So, if we want to, - , to make a Rules of Procedure which should contribute to the fast coming of the law, but not too fast, not lightly promised speed, but to the laws that are in the interest of the Government, I would say, (and when I say the Government, then to discuss the laws that the Government proposes, but in the interests of citizens), then this Rules of Procedure must be a set of different opinions and views of different parliamentary groups, and not only parliamentary groups that have a majority. [[I haven't answered for a replica]] When a parliamentary group that has a majority in this House proposes, then we come to the most democratic Rules of Procedure - though, I thought that the previous Rules of Procedure is the worst because it is not even in Madagascar, but now we come to a rules that only stimulates the way in which the parliamentary majority, which does not have a majority or more specifically, the government's majority, can ensure the functioning of parliament and the adoption of the law. Where exactly do you see that? They say to avoid blocking the government or blocking parliament, as you will. If it is true that Parliament is embarrassing the MPs, when such an impression is gained by citizens, it is known what is the measure - in 1993, only after a year of Parliament's work, after the debate in this Parliament and in 1993, that the government of Serbia is assessing that it is a parliament that does not give confidence to citizens, it is proposed to the President of the Republic of Serbia to disband Parliament; we have had the Republic elections only after a year of Parliament's work. If you think this parliament is not a picture of Serbian citizens, please, you have a parliamentary majority, let the government propose to the president of the Republic of Serbia to discuss the elections; that is correct, that is fair, and of course the relationship of the new parliamentary forces will determine how this new parliament will function. But where do restrictions lead; worst restrictions in fact lead this parliament to a difficult situation, when it comes to blocking? Here, an MP in yesterday's debate called for Article 217, which says the MP is obliged to participate in the work of the Assembly. The same MP, together with Mr Djindjic, in 1995 and 1996, was absolutely abstinent in the work of parliament; he was in the halls and in the halls, in the offices of the parliamentary group; he regularly received diaries; regularly all MPs received diaries and salaries at the time, no one questioned it, for the simple reason that it was the right of MPs to participate or not participate in parliament's work depending on how he thinks: whether it brings him political points or political damage to Serbian citizens. After all, everyone here participates in order to bring them political benefits, and taking care of what kind of legislation will be passed. So that argument is absolutely out, because the same ones who are now saying something else were doing the exact opposite just a few years ago. Here, on many occasions, were the lengths of discussion and quorum. You know, you can't make two restrictions: at the quorum and the time of the discussion. We are calling for European parliaments, and in England, as we said earlier, it is true, the quorum is not 51%, but the debate on a single amendment, you remember the Health Insurance Act, lasted three months in that English Parliament; the restriction on the discussion is only that there should be no pauses in the speech for one or more minutes, can be spoken uninterrupted, one MP can speak throughout the day. Therefore, you cannot, on the one hand, limit the parliamentary group to have 30 or 40 minutes to speak, and on the other hand limit its presence in the Assembly when it comes to the number of MPs who speak here. Why is it debated in principle? Here, in the principle of one law, it is debated to convince, I suppose, that we are still from the opposition, the parliamentary majority that some law should or should not be accepted. If we now have 30% in parliament present in the hall that we need to convince, and then when it is voting day, the President of Parliament invites the other 25% to be 50 percent and some percent in Parliament, that 20 percent of our arguments, which we held at the time of the debate in principle, will respect or not respect. This means that they don't care what we're discussing here, what we're talking about and how we're making arguments; and that some law should not be passed or not as proposed, but in a different form. This means that these MPs are not at all interested in whether we are making arguments for or against this law, but simply come and press the key as is the parliamentary majority or as the Government has suggested, depending on who proposed the law. For these reasons, it is inadmissible to limit the time of discussion of the parliamentary group on the one hand, and on the other hand to reduce the number of MPs present. If you are already reducing the number of people present in the Assembly to 30%, I think it was wise to propose 5% and that it would be best to write in the Rules of Procedure to participate in the debate in principle the president of the Assembly and the heads of parliament clubs - that they bring the number of parliamentary mandates they have, and when the president of the Assembly puts them to the vote, they raise their votes, they have 30 and these 20 votes, and then for these reasons simply that law is passed or not. If it's 30, why can't it be 20, why can't it be five? Everything below 50%, in fact, opens up a debate about what the argument is to be just 30%, why it's not 25% or 20%. Therefore, I think it was logical and fair to give up and now of this proposal, because you are simply introducing something that will not only question the debate on some laws, but will question the legitimacy of any law that has been passed, because in a practical way MPs do not participate, they do not bring up their arguments, and when they do, those who vote on it were not present and were not obliged to attend that act of voting, or debate. Of course, when it comes to interpreting the Rules of Procedure, if it is now in the jurisdiction of the Administrative Board, that means if we object that the Rules of Procedure has been broken, the President of the Assembly says - well, the Administrative Committee will discuss it. The Management Board is scheduled for September 1st, and now it doesn't matter that the quorum wasn't when the vote on the past law was held, which the listing showed, but the Management Board will schedule on September 1st, and he can then say that it was broken by the Rules of Procedure and nothing, because it was three months after that. It is logical that the violation of the Rules of Procedure, which can harm and challenge the adoption of the law, is decided by that moment and by those who adopted the Rules of Procedure, which are MPs in parliament. Finally, as far as the president's rights were concerned: there were many arguments here that the president of the assembly was not the authority of parliament, he did not own any company that could fire and receive workers, that he could decide who would be, but here it is about one other, discretionary law, since there was another term here that was not correct. The President-in-Office of the Assembly's discretion to listen to a debate that has nothing to do with the Rules of Procedure and to keep quiet, as it is an MP of the parliamentary majority, and that whenever anyone from the opposition says anything out of the question, it will be thrown out for 90 days. When it comes to being thrown out for 90 days, this isn't just about whether someone who makes a mess in parliament should be sanctioned. Of course, this is again about the discretionary right of Parliament's president to change the relationship in parliament during the vote, so when the majority is narrowed down to decide on a single vote in parliament (as was the case with the election of the new speaker), the president of the assembly can decide to throw the MP out and ensure that the parliamentary majority has the opportunity to adopt that decision or that law. For these reasons, we think that this is not good and that we should withdraw this proposal from the Rules of Procedure and not adopt it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-05-0.u21856	Right on the line, MP Pal Shandor.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-05-0.u21857	Dear colleagues, I must report for the replica after Mr. Angelkovic drew such an idyllic picture of the period of their rule that I must only say three remarks about everything he said, that the painting would not yet be so idyllic. First, the truth is that we worked in this group and it was quite studioous and very serious, but it's also true that the Socialists were then putting amendments on our proposals, which the group was making by consensus. It was accepted in this group that there was impelation, and then Radmilo Kalčević (or such a character) submitted an amendment to delete it, so the Assembly voted and then, let's say, you don't have the impellations in the Rules of Procedure, and we agreed to have it. So this parallel game. I proposed there, and we agreed that there was a committee of the heads of parliament groups, as one of the committees in the Assembly, so that tensions, misunderstandings would be reduced and that there would be arrangements, that we could predict what the course of the session would be, so that it would be constructive, etc. We make a deal and there's no deal. The worst thing that we've suggested is that there's a congregation guard who's independent of the MUP, that's because the Socialists beat up radicals pretty bad in this assembly room when they suspend parliament, shut the door, and one of the police chiefs was standing there by the door, I want to go into the O.R. and he's telling me - outside, which will say that the police minister could suspend parliament when it comes to him, because the Assembly's guard, or the militia, wasn't under the direct command of the president. Therefore, radicals could say something, as well as Mr Nikolic, who is not presently present, said he would not come with a tie to the Assembly and how dangerous it is. Therefore, she was more likely to be just as idyllic as Mr. Angelkovic says. There have been deals, but, please, the Socialists have always made it clear who has the majority in this assembly, and that's how they behave, and that's the nature of every government. So what we're proposing right now is that we're increasing the excess in the Assembly, not the obstruction we've been conducting -- you remember that we've been in a situation to obstruct, we get to a pay phone, someone's kept quiet for two minutes, and then we get out in a decent way. Otherwise, pouring the amendments to the assembly procedure is nothing unusual, and I think it's allowed in parliament, but challenging the excess, and the changes are moving in that direction, so what I was talking about yesterday, that destruction is not allowed in parliament after all.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-05-0.u21858	Are any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, answering for a word? The word comes from MP Dragan Markovic, president of the SSJ parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-05-0.u21859	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, raises the question of what the Proposer wanted to do with the proposed new Rules of Procedure. Did he want to reduce the cost of a working day of the assembly session? No, the same price remains, the same diaries remain: 30,000 marks are diaries plus 15,000 marks remaining expenses, which are necessary for one day's work. There will continue to be MPs coming to the Assembly and the obligation is much smaller now than before, as Article 5 provides for a third of the MPs to be present in the hall, which means that those MPs who have not come are freed of responsibility and those who have never come before. So we're creating an opportunity for them to continue to raise their diaries and make certain diaries as many as 70,000 dinars with a salary. I mean the journals, the travel expenses, those MPs that come from the interior. They happen to use state cars, and they go to the cash register, and they write there like they came in a private car, and it's meant to go in their pocket. The question arises whether we have become parliament, as one of the MPs mentioned, in England, France, etc. How it goes and how time goes I expect that very soon in this House, MPs from DOS will ask us to be paid as in the English Parliament, and it doesn't matter how our peasants live, how our workers live, how pensioners live. Laugh, you DOS gentlemen, laugh. Let me just say that the citizens of Serbia are bitter at this proposal by the Rules of Procedure. This is Serbia's mirror, yours, as you do, and very soon the citizens of Serbia will be on the streets looking for elections. In five minutes, when you adopt this Rules of Procedure, this will no longer be the Serbian Parliament, this will be the home of cadiya in the image of the President of the Assembly, because the cadiya sues you; we know, ladies and gentlemen, that the President of the Assembly has so far respected that Rules of Procedure, and with new powers in the new Rules of Procedure, we must not say more than five sentences without asking the President of the Assembly if we can continue. As of today, dictatorship is being introduced in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and we believe that we, the MPs of the opposition, and also those of the DOS (but they must not say that, because only those who have certain functions are satisfied) cannot help you any more, there can be no more part of the agenda if the number of MPs suggests it, as foreseen under the new Rules of Procedure. Only new elections can make better tomorrow for this Serbia and we from the Serbian Unity Party expect DOS to call the elections, as their ratings are growing, and they are expected to be 10% less, as they are all damaged polls. They are making polls done by the Serbian Unity Party saying the election result in the next election will be very different and only elections, once again, ladies and gentlemen, can bring better tomorrow to this country. You see how the debate was going -- there was a fight between the two biggest parties. Who cares more, what DS does, what DOS does, what the DSS does. He wants people to know if they can live on their work. If two of the biggest parties that made citizens vote in the last election got so many votes, the DOS is no longer functioning as it works. I believe and expect the DSS to ask for new elections, and to ask for the Serbian government to submit a report before that, so that we can see what the Serbian government has done well for the citizens of Serbia. If he convinces us, you DOS citizens may vote for them again, but they can hardly convince us because we also feel Serbian citizens living. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-05-0.u21860	Are any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, answering for a word? No, I don't. ) We move on to a decision on amendments. Do you want a word as an act promoter? Yeah. ) Please, the word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-05-0.u21861	Ms. Micic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think I am obliged as a promoter to respond in the most concrete sense and in the most precise manner to such comments. In view of that view, it is clear that I cannot, nor do I want to comment on the comments made by the SPS; I do not think I am obliged to comment on the exotic policy of the party and its representative who have as much connection with parliament as the Shumadi with the palm. I will answer only the remarks of the MPs, or the DSS parliamentary groups. Such a thing seems logical to me, and it is finally a duty, given that in Parliament we have been acting as a single parliamentary group for some time and that we have been elected on the common coalition list. I think it's just that the criticism that's being addressed from their side is serious and that it's justified to deny it, so that something doesn't remain unarranged or in the form of speculation. So I would classify these objections to areas: in the first amendments to the Rules of Procedure, they are criticised for insisting on an effective and functional parliament, in the second because of pressure and changing the status of MPs. I would refer to the moral dimension of the critics of this initiative. During yesterday's debate, in its afternoon section, it was said that the DSS's stance that efficiency and productivity cannot be criteria that will have a crucial impact on the status of parliament, nor can they speak of the validity of such an institution. During today's debate, the argument was also mentioned that in the last year and a half, parliament passed 60 laws and made about 130 decisions, it is unnecessary to amend the Rules of Procedure, as it is obvious that it can work. That is why I would remind you of the criticisms you are also giving us through the the thesis that reforms are being carried out slowly in Serbia or that they are not at all. You cannot challenge our right to insist on an effective parliament, while at the same time criticising the same parliament during the performances of its party president for inefficientness. Something like that was done only two weeks ago, and I can't believe you forgot it. Either the president of your party said what you don't think or you don't support Vojislav Kostunica. It's impossible for both of us. If for a time such a thing was possible through the observation that you were allowed to be both the government and the opposition, in this particular case, when it comes to the right and legal arrangement of the functioning of parliament, these standards cannot be respected. As far as the more difficult way to apply this Rules of Procedure, we would only do a chromium analogy with rules governing parliaments of modern democracies, through the performances of the president of the Legislative Committee and through the materials with which I have available, I have actually seen more than a clear argument that such an argument is not supported by facts. The laws and any decisions to be discussed by parliament in the future will have three readings: before the assembly committees, during discussions in principle and during discussions in particular. Nothing has changed that rule or been questioned by this parliamentary fluid that is needed, in order to see in the most proper way all of those possible wrongs of what parliament decides, and they change them by better solutions or in fact give MPs the opportunity to get to know in the most concrete way the materials they will then work with. I would point out that this rule of law has brought down the institution of MPs and that it is reduced to an officer who is only in parliament because of the taster and the vote. Laws have been defined by previous amendments to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Serbian Parliament. The amendments and additions were proposed by the DSS parliamentary group, the same way we did. It was then shortened time for discussion, then it was found that amendments could be proposed by a parliamentary group, not by some MPs because of the obvious abuses that occurred. We have then supported such an initiative, we support it today and we do not understand why you are building on it in the meantime and why you deny it. The idea of sanctioning MPs is not an idea that was born in the Serbian parliament. She's as old as the ideas of parliamentaryism. I think we've applied the most concrete and correct procedure. Special powers of the president do not exist. We have only respected facts that have actually demoted us as a Assembly more than the president as an individual. If once an MP who beats the president of the Assembly, pulls out a microphone, starts a fight in the hall was rewarded and calmed by being appointed vice-president of the Republic or the Federal Government, it is not possible in democratic Serbia. Those who feel that they can behave in the congregation will face serious sanctions and we insist on such a change. The idea that this will be questioned by the voting procedure, namely that someone will manipulate this kind of sanctions, is unacceptable, because it is clear that by giving the right we do not in fact suggest any abuse of that right, especially if you respect those members of the amended Rules of Procedure, which leaves the possibility for the president of the parliamentary group to comment on the President's proceedings before the Administrative Board to request an audit of his decision; in any case, even where the MP is excluded on 90 working days. The criticism that parliament has been treated as a company is characteristic and they have been repeated several times. I don't think they have any basis in facts. If MPs of the Democratic opposition are asked to introduce different rules of life in parliament than those governing the lives of millions of Serbian citizens, we do not agree to such a thing. Those who went out in December 2000 to the elections had to tell the citizens: choose us not to work; vote for us so that we could spend our time in front of the congregation registers, according to congregation towers, not at congregation meetings. As citizens voted and gave two-thirds support to the DOS parliamentary group to change something in Serbia, we sanction those who think they will hate, not work will be rewarded in this house. Something like that is a principle that will be respected and that we cannot give up on. Highlighting justification through the cartooning of the fact that he is a citizen who must explain his actions for us is unacceptable. If some of the MPs present in this assembly had gone to the doctor's office before they went to the polls, our work would have been much easier and perhaps we wouldn't have discussed the topics we're talking about right now. Since they did not do so then, may they now bring medical justification to explain their actions. And whoever is gone will be sanctioned as they will be sanctioned in any other system in this society. The status of Members in permanent work, i.e. an MP who does not enjoy such a privilege, is not a binding status. He's fully allowed as an electoral right. Each parliamentary group shall have the only limit that has been defined through a consensus of all parliamentary groups within the Assembly, a limit of one third of Members who may be registered for permanent work, i.e. up to one half, as subsequently amended. But, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Parliament, if you sign up and sign up for a working relationship with the Assembly, then respect your right to do so and respond to the obligations that this working relationship is following. That's not what I'm telling the MPs of the opposition parliamentary groups or those parliamentary groups who are criticizing this, but everyone. Those who do not respect their working relationship with Parliament will lose their privileges. The Assembly shall work 180 days in a regular session and about 60 days in an emergency session; maximum. But at any moment MPs who are in constant work have secured financial privileges and status privileges that other MPs do not have. That is why it must be placed between rights and obligations and I know the equality between the freedom of MPs and his right. Freedom without rights and responsibility is anarchy or vacation. You are seeking absolute freedom at sea, in summering, in wintering, but in Parliament you realize that there must be a right, but also with the right to do so. So absolute freedom without any responsibility has no support. It seems to me that, finally, we have a misunderstanding here that actually points to the serious motives that led us to change this Rules of Procedure and to the motives that we face as obstacles to its adoption. In all discussions of DSS representatives, the institutions of the republican government were mentioned, along with the institution of parliament. We are not in trouble because we support this government, because we have chosen it with our votes. If we deny her trust, we'll deny our trust, because we'll have to explain what we did wrong when we gave it to each other. We do not think that this government is doing badly, and if there are MPs who believe that some changes should be made there, they are defined by the rules of procedure on which such a thing can be done. The parliamentary issue remains as a full right, intact; also impelation as a possibility for 50 MPs to get an answer to all issues in the discussion with government representatives. But these topics are never open here in the Republic Parliament because truth is not the essence of such a requirement, but political manipulation by which criticism is directed at those who work most in this society, confronting the worst among us. I have very concrete reports on the presence of MPs during the debate in principle and detail. I can't figure out why the MPs who were the most irregular during these discussions feel affected today. We have only determined their right to continue with such policy implementation in the future, but we have sent a message to them and to the public of this country that we will not be hostages of such policy, that we want to work, to discuss laws, that we do not want 70 legislative proposals in the drawer, that we are not satisfied that reforms are being implemented much faster than in other countries of transition, because we have lost 10 years that they are not. That is why a third of the MPs are a good category for the smooth and functional work of the Assembly during the debate in principle and detail. It was an idea to remove the quorum completely, but it would violate the institution of MPs, which is obliged to send this society a very clear view that parliament is an institution to which the public and all other institutions must be seen, and not to run away from it and to cite it as a negative example. That, unfortunately, has been the case so far. They are the criticisms and the findings in which our work is described in the worst way, but I think that they are the wrong ones that despise attitudes towards the most regular MPs among us. Which is why they would be obliged to feel affected because representatives of rioting parliamentary groups point to their presence as an expression of subjective loyalty to some other institutions. MPs who have sat down for a year and a half in these benches deserve our respect, not criticism of those MPs who were much more regular in the congregation register than in the congregation hall. That is why, regardless of the parliamentary groups, regardless of the status of positions and opposition, we owe them thanks because they preserved this minimum credibility of this home. The last criticism that has been made by our coalition partner or our recent coalition partner is the lack of parliamentary democracy. That's the way it's been said after the ministry bill was passed. The institution of democracy rests on the right of the majority and the right of the minority. We do not question your rights as a minority, but we cannot quietly allow you to challenge our right to the majority, to amend the Rules of Procedure by a parliamentary majority. While these labour principles apply, there is no parliamentary dictatorship in Serbia. If those principles that have become dominant in the politics of everything DOS does, changing our society, I don't think we're going into dictatorship, but in the period we've been living for 10 years, with all the tragic consequences we're facing today. That is why I expect DOS MPs to support this proposal to amend and supplement the Rules of Procedure. I think we will be working very quickly on a new Rules of Procedure, because the Rules of Procedure will change, given that it is not a holy letter, in accordance with the needs of the Republic of Parliament. In these changes, everyone can participate, but they have to count on that dominant line that we count on. The Rules of Procedure are changed to change the Assembly, and the Assembly must change because it must be more efficient and better.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-05-0.u21862	I would like to thank the motionary. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Members of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Adam Urosevic and joint MPs Milan Stankovic and Dragan Todorovic. The proposer and the Administrative Committee did not accept this amania, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 43, against 123, 24 abstentions, nine out of 199 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Sikimic. The proposer and the Administrative Committee adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft decision. National MP Vojislav Seselj submitted to the 1st amendment. The proposer and the Administrative Committee did not accept this amania, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 41, against 120, with five abstentions, they did not vote 32, out of 198 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Srda Popovic, Vojilav Jankovic and Milan Stanimirovic together proposed that two new members - 1a and 1b, who are being amended in Articles 57 and 62, be added after article 1. Rules of Procedure. The proposer and the Administrative Committee adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft decision. The People's MPs Golub Rajic and Zoran Nikolic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The proposer and the Administrative Committee did not accept this amania, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 43, against 121, a abstentioned one, did not vote 34, out of 198 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Vojislav Seselj submitted to the 2nd amendment. The proposer and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 40, against 119, two abstentions, were not voted 35 out of 196 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Joca Arsic and Hranislav Peric. The proposer and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 40, against 119, two abstentions, were not voted 35 out of 196 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 4th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Adam Urosevic and joint MPs Rada Bajic and Nebojsa Jovic. The proposer and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 41, against 119 abstentions, there was no 35 vote, out of 195 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Vera Markovic. The proposer and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 60, against 84, with 10 abstentions, he did not vote 41, out of 195 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Vojislav Seselj submitted to the 4th amendment. The proposer and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 27, against 120, a abstentioned one, did not vote 46, out of 194 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Adam Urosevic, together with the MPs Toma Busetic and Borisvoje Drakulovic, submitted to the 5th amendment. The proposer and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 38, against 117, a abstentioned one, was not voted 37, out of 193 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th Amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. The proposer and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 31, against 116 abstentions, there was no vote of 45, out of 192 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Kovacevic. The proposer and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 37, against 98, three abstentions, 56 of the 194 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dragan Pavlovic submitted an amendment proposing that a new Article 5a be added after Article 5a, which is being amended in Article 85. Rules of Procedure. The proposer and the Administrative Committee adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become part of the draft decision. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Ruzic and Slobodan Tomovic. The proposer and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 36, against 121 abstentions, there were no, no 38 votes, of 195 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Radojko Petrovic and Ljubisa Maravic. The proposer and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 33, against 124 abstentions, there was no 36 vote, out of 193 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Rajko Baralic and Milan Jankovic. The proposer and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 34, against 119 abstentions, there were no 39 votes, out of 192 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Sikimic. The proposer and the Administrative Committee adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft decision. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. The proposer, the Administrative Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 20, against 119 abstentions, there was no vote 53, out of 192 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Pavlovic. The proposer and the Administrative Committee adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft decision. Members of the 9th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Vera Markovic, MP Vojislav Seselj and joint MPs Djura Lazic and Dusan Cvetkovic. The proposer and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 40, against 109 abstentions, there were no 43 votes, out of 192 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 10th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Adam Urosevic, MP Vojislav Seselj and joint MPs Vladimir Garčević and Rade Bajic. The proposer and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 34, against 116, a abstentioned one, did not vote 41, out of 192 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Sikimic. The proposer and the Administrative Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legal, so I find that this amendment is an integral part of the proposal for a decision. The 11th amendment, in the same text, was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Adam Urosevic and joint MPs Dragan Jovanovic and Sreten Mitrovica. The proposer and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 37, against 119 abstentions, there was no 35 vote, out of 191 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 11th Amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. The proposer and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 22, against 121, two were abstentions, not 47 votes, out of 192 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 12th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukić and Adam Urosevic, together by MPs Sreten Mitrovica and Đura Lazić and MP Vojislav Seselj. The proposer and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 33, against 119 abstentions, there was no 42 vote, out of 194 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 13th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted jointly by MPs Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Adam Urosevic, together by MPs Zoran Angelkovic and Joca Arsic and MP Vojislav Seselj. The proposer and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 39, against 120, a abstentioned one, was not voted 34, out of 194 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Vera Markovic. He's giving up. ) I find that MP Vera Markovic withdrew the amendment to Article 12. Members of the 13th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted jointly by MPs Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Adam Urosevic, together by MPs Zoran Angelkovic and Joca Arsic and MP Vojislav Seselj. The proposer and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 39, against 120, a abstentioned one, was not voted 34, out of 194 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I apologize, I ask Mrs Vera Markovic - did you withdraw the amendment in your discussion in a single search, did you plead, did you then? No, I don't. Then we must vote on your amendment. So we are going back to deciding on the amendment to Article 12, which was submitted by MP Vera Markovic. The proposer and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 42, against 97, with five abstentions, 50 of the 194 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Nikolic and Golub Rajic. The proposer and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 32, against 119 abstentions, there were no 43 votes, out of 194 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 15th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Todorovic and Borisvoje Drakulovic. The proposer and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 36, against 118, a abstentioned one, did not vote 40, out of 195 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 16th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Toma Busetic and Milos Nesovic. The proposer and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 39, against 119 abstentions, there was no 36 vote, of 194 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Srdjan Sikimic submitted to the 16th amendment. The proposer and the Administrative Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legal, so I find that this amendment is an integral part of the proposal for a decision. The amendment was submitted by MP Vera Markovic. The proposer and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. You can't pull now because it's a unique search. (He speaks to MP Vera Markovic. For 45, against 88, with eight abstentions, 54 of the 195 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. The proposer and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 26, against 117 abstentions, he did not vote 51, of 194 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Adam Urosevic. The proposer and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 38, against 121 abstentions, there were no 34 votes, out of 193 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Srdjan Sikimic submitted an amendment proposing that a new member of 16a be added to Article 143. Rules of Procedure. The proposer and the Administrative Committee adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft decision. Members of the 17th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Borisvoje Drakulovic and Jovan Todorovic. The proposer and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 36, against 122 abstentions, there were no 35 votes, out of 193 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Sikimic. The proposer and the Administrative Committee adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft decision. Members of the 18th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Adam Urosevic, joint MPs Bora Stanimirović and Radojko Petrovic and MP Srdjan Sikimic. The proposer and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 46, against 109 abstentions, two did not vote 36 out of 193 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP Dr Vojislav Seselj. The proposer and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 23, against 114 abstentions, there were no 57 votes, out of 194 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Ljubomir Mucic and Nebojsa Jovic submitted together to the 19th amendment. The proposer and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 36, against 119 abstentions, there were no 39 votes, of 194 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 19th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Adam Urosevic. The proposer and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 35, against 119 abstentions, there was no vote of 40, of 194 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dr Vojislav Seselj submitted to the 19th amendment. The proposer and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 25, against 116, the abstentions were not voted 53, out of 194 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 20th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Miomir Ilic and Milan-Jire Jankovic and MP Vojislav Seselj. The proposer and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 34, against 120, there are no abstentions, no vote of 40, of 194 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 20th amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Sikimic. The proposer and the Administrative Committee adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft decision. Members of the 21st Amendment were submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj and joint MPs Đura Lazic and Rajko Baralic. The proposer and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 33, against 114 abstentions, there was no vote 46 out of 193 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Adam Urosevic. The proposer and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 35, against 118, the abstentions were not voted 42, out of 195 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 22nd Amendment in the same text were submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj and joint MPs Toma Busetic and Vladimir Garčević. The proposer and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 34, against 118, the abstentioned were not voted 45, a total of 197 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 22nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Adam Urosevic. The proposer and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 36, against 120, the abstentions were not voted 41, a total of 197 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj and joint MPs Joca Arsic and Miomir Ilic. The proposer and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 33, against 120, a abstentioned one, was not voted 43, a total of 197 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 24th Amendment were submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj, joint MPs Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Adam Urosevic and joint MPs Zoran D. Nikolic and Ljubisa Maravic. The proposer and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 39, against 111 abstentions, there were no 47 votes, a total of 197 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The National MP Branislav Kovacevic submitted the 24th amendment. The proposer and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 26, against 103, abstentions 7, 62, a total of 198 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Adam Urosevic. The proposer and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 39, against 115, the abstentioned were not voted 45, a total of 199 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 25th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Hranislav Peric and Zivodarka Dacin. The proposer and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 40, against 117, one abstention, was not voted 43, a total of 201 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. The proposer and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 26, against 116, a abstentioned one, did not vote 56, a total of 199 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. This concludes the decision on amendments and a single review of the draft decision and the decision on amendments. I ask if the proponent, MP Cedomir Jovanovic, wants the closing word? No, I don't. ) I conclude a single search and put forward a motion for a decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. For 123, against 74, the abstentions were not voted by four, a total of 201 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority a proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I suggest we set a break for the preparation of the 2nd agenda and continue the work at 3:15 p.m.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-05-0.u21863	I have been asked by the president of the National Assembly to inform you that in about 20 minutes, the meeting will continue due to the waiting for the material needed to continue the session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-05-0.u21864	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please insert identification cards into your MPs to determine the quorum. I figure we have a quorum, we can keep working. In accordance with Article 164. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have made a request to the government of the Republic of Serbia to agree on a change of agenda. You have received an act from the government and a proposal for a decision to elect members of the Constitutional Commission to draft a constitutional charter, with a proposal to consider it as a second item of the agenda. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: - Proposal for a decision on the election of Members of the Constitutional Committee for the Construction of the Constitutional Land of the National Community of Serbia and of the Black Gore You have received a proposal for a decision submitted by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the DOS parliamentary group, which, on his proposal, the Government of the Republic of Serbia identified as the 2nd point of the agenda. I remind you that, according to article 157, TV 3, and corresponding to Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups by proportion to the number of peoples. Consent to Article 157. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Does the promoter, MP Cedomir Jovanovic, want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-05-0.u21865	Ms. Micic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I owe you the first explanation of this urgent procedure and the initiative that I have as president of the DOS parliamentary group, but at the same time in accordance with the agreement reached through the consultations attended by representatives of the DSS parliamentary group and the SPS representative, who has been fenced from this initiative, but was present during the meeting. I launched this initiative and sent a request to the Republic government to put into this extraordinary session and agenda -- the appointment of members of the constitutional commission to draft a constitutional charter of the future union of Serbia-Montenegro, following an emergency procedure. The agreement, signed on 22 March, established the obligations of both the republic and the federal parliament. Those obligations were fully respected by the Republika Srpska Assembly, but for a while we stood in place because of the misunderstandings that followed the vote in front of the Greater Citizens and the Greater Republic of the Federal Assembly. Since this happened in the meantime, there is no assumption or reason why we would hesitate to continue to engage on this legal issue. Accordingly, we have held consultations with representatives of parliamentary groups in the Republic Parliament, where there have been several concrete facts that I would like to introduce you to. First, opposition representatives, SPS representatives and the SSJ distanced themselves from this agreement and the initiative. Their political stance is legitimate and it stems from the fact that they voted against this agreement during the April month, and when the Republic Assembly discussed it. With that in mind, the relationship has changed, absolutely respecting the MPs and their concepts that represent them here in parliament. Namely, four MPs were then scheduled to delegate the DOS parliamentary group, two DSS, and one SSJ and one SPS each. Meanwhile, changes at the level of the Federation, or the Republic of Montenegro's parliament, have also taken place, so the possibility of appointing another MP has been opened. Since the two opposition parties have distanced themselves from this agreement, an agreement has been reached for DOS to delegate five representatives and DSS three. Meanwhile, the correction was made, so the DOS proposed six, and the number of proposed representatives in front of the DSS remained the same, in line with the agreement reached previously. It's practically the technology that preceded this initiative. I remind you that we as parliament have taken on the obligation of active participation in the work to create a constitutional charter of the Serbia-Montenegro community, and that, among other things, through the adoption of this agreement, we have taken over and accepted previously established deadlines. These deadlines make us talk about this matter immediately. I expect that during the debate these basic elements that precede this item of the agenda will be respected and respected, and that is our desire for all to participate, whether they oppose such a constitutional definition or not. Of course, we will respect the will of the opposition, which has distanced itself from that decision. At the same time, we will insist on our right to reorganise Serbia, to achieve a functional community of our Republic with Montenegro, and not make any mistake in this business that would challenge the stability of such a built state. In advance, I thank all those who participated in the actions that preceded this initiative. I believe that the proposed representatives are quite representative and will fully respond to the tasks that follow their functions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-05-0.u21866	Thank you. Before I give my word to the presidents of the parliamentary groups, I ask the parliamentary groups to hand over the lists of registered speakers. If anyone wants to talk. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zarko Obradovic, president of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-05-0.u21867	Dear Presidency, fellow MPs, I am advertising an injury to the MP, Article 164, where it is said very precisely: "The National Assembly is working on a pre-determined agenda, which was submitted by the applicant for holding an emergency session. The order of consideration of the agenda points cannot be changed without the agreement of the proposing representative, at whose request an extraordinary meeting is scheduled." According to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, this session was to be suspended, to be scheduled new with this item of the agenda and to be declared by the Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-05-0.u21868	Mr. Obradovic, you've just read the provisions we've respected, which we've acted on. At an extraordinary meeting, the National Assembly shall work in advance on the agenda provided by the applicant for holding an emergency session. The order of examination of the points cannot be changed without the consent of the proposing representative, at whose request the extraordinary meeting is scheduled. At the request of the National Assembly, the Government sent an act that you received, where it gave its consent to consider, as item 2, the proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Constitutional Commission. I don't know if you're happy with my answer. National MP Zarko Obradovic requests the Assembly to declare that an infringement of Article 164 has been committed. Rules of Procedure. I ask the MPs to vote. For 36, against 137 abstentions five, 12 of the 190 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has made a decision that no breach of the Rules of Procedure has been committed, and I remind you, Mr. Obradovic, that we have already had a case like this twice; we have also applied the same procedure for the resolution on Kosovo and adopted it that way. I would like MP groups to submit the lists of registered speakers for this agenda item. The Rules of Procedure again? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-05-0.u21869	Madam Chairman, I've asked the Assembly to plead on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I advertised the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and the Assembly pleaded. I don't think it was necessary for your additional explanation, because I still claim that Article 164 must have been respected. Rules of Procedure, regardless of the decision of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-05-0.u21870	Thank you. I ask the presidents of the parliamentary groups to hand over the lists of registered speakers. I'm asking if one of the presidents wants a word. Yeah. ) Please, the word has been delivered by MP Dejan Mihajlov, president of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-05-0.u21871	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, I must express my satisfaction because we have come one more step closer to the final solution and redefine relations between Serbia and Montenegro. I believe that this team, which will today be delegated by the Republic Assembly to the Constitutional Commission that will work on making the Constitutional Charter, will certainly respond to tasks to redefine new relations between Serbia and Montenegro in one serious and responsible way. What was the DSS's interest, above all, was for the Constitutional Commission to be composed of representatives of all parties, even those who did not support the Agreement, because we felt that the new state of Serbia-Montenegro should come into existence on a sound basis, i.e. that all Serbian citizens should participate in writing a new constitution so that the greatest interests of Serbian citizens would be articulated through them. Since the representatives of all parties, above all I think of the SPS, the SSJ and the SRS, did not want to participate in the written charter, although they are citizens, we as DSS will assume on our own the obligation not only of these parties, but of all professional organisations and citizens who will not have the opportunity to be members of the Constitutional Commission through their representatives, we are consulting in some situations, so that we finally get the Constitution and the state that will not be the fruit of various conflicts on a political scene, but the fruit of a compromise and of which there will be no further dispute. We've had states since 1946, FNRJ, all the way to this Frog Constitution, which were also from a legal point of view extremely controversial. We want to create a state that will be completely constitutional, legal and legitimate. Simply, those we wanted to give the opportunity to participate in making this charter did not want it, which makes me very sad, because it also speaks of their responsibility or lack of responsibility for opportunities and for the moment in which Serbia-Montenegro is located, and this is a new beginning. Their responsibility may also be that they are not aware of their obligation to participate in the creation of this new beginning and the construction of a new state. But, as I said, we will make sure that in the best possible way we represent the interests of the greatest part of the citizens, and thus contribute to the fact that the state of Serbia-Montenegro is not the fruit of political compromises, such as the third Yugoslavia under the Frog Constitution, but that it is a state that the largest number of citizens of Serbia-Montenegro will accept as their own and contribute to its life among citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-05-0.u21872	Are any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, answering for a word? The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic, president of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-05-0.u21873	Dear Presidency, fellow Members of Parliament, I would just like to express the position of the SPS parliamentary group regarding this item of the agenda. In fact, we did not accept that we were involved in the work of this committee to create the Constitutional Charter. I will mention three basic reasons: 1. As an SPS parliamentary group, we have both in this Parliament and in the Federal Parliament submitted a proposal for conclusions in the direction of strengthening, strengthening the future state, that it has all those integral elements that one state should have in order to call it a common state. None of these proposals were accepted. That's one reason. 2. No proposal has been accepted in the federal parliament that the commission be formed on a parity principle, on a different principle. We didn't want to accept it for those reasons either. 3. The agreement on Serbia-Montenegro's relations objectively limited the content of the future constitutional charter. Here in parliament, we talked about how we feel about this agreement on Serbia-Montenegro's relations. We said there were not enough of those elements that would seem common to the common state, in a situation where two customs duties, two currencies are mentioned in one document, when there is no common market, when the mention of institutions whose contentation is unknown, when there are many open issues, except for one closed -- that fate will finally be resolved after three years. We felt that we should not participate in such an agreement, that we should not participate in the creation of the Constitutional Charter because it itself, if the basis for the work of the Constitutional Charter is the content of the Agreement, does not provide enough elements for the state to be called common and to be in the function of both Serbia and Montenegro, i.e. citizens of those two republics.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-05-0.u21874	Are any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, answering for a word? The word is by MP Momcilo Trajkovic, in accordance with Article 89. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-05-0.u21875	Dear MPs, I want to ask here publicly in front of the whole public a question -- why MPs from Kosovo and Metohija are persistently ignored and why there are no representatives in the federal group or in the republic. There are MPs from DOS and DSS, and neither DSS nor DOS have proposed any MPs from Kosovo and Metohija. I know that everyone should fight for Serbia, but I know that it was a criterion in the Federal Assembly that someone from Vojvodina must be. I just can't believe that we want to be with you so much, that we want to hold on tight for you, and you keep pushing us and leaving the impression that Kosovo doesn't interest you at all. I want here an explanation and an explanation from both the President of the Assembly and the Proposer, both on the one hand and on the other. There are four DOS MPs, or DSS in this assembly, why there are no representatives from Kosovo and Metohija. What's this about? If we're not needed here, then we shouldn't be sitting here. Why mistrust? So this is something that no one can understand the moment we fight to keep Kosovo and Metohija in Serbia at all costs. You are simply not interested in Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija, you are not interested in MPs from Kosovo and Metohija, and you have managed to comply with other criteria. I respect that there are Muslims, I respect that there are Hungarians, I respect that there are representatives from Vojvodina, but there are no representatives from Kosovo and Metohija. I want to get an answer to this question. Otherwise, I must say, I feel the need to leave this House in a sense that I do not need to sit in it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-05-0.u21876	The word is by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, who proposes the act.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-05-0.u21877	Mrs. Micic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, did not use territorial criteria. We don't know why this example you mentioned came to the Council of Citizens, or the Greater Republic, but our criteria were completely different. We have insisted that the Commission be representatives of minority communities and as a political group, which you belong to, we have delegated representatives who will fully represent us by representing the interests of the citizens of Serbia, namely, and the interests of the citizens of Kosovo and Metohija. A different approach would send a negative message. There is no need to burden the work of the Constitutional Commission in such a way, as it is clear that these representatives are certainly guardians, among other things, and the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia, and that they will certainly act and act politically accordingly. Finally, this assembly will discuss the results of their work and the possibility of any kind of criticism and correction will be opened at that time. We've introduced other principles, certainly not territorial, because that's how we would question everything we insist on.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-05-0.u21878	Right on line, MP Momcilo Trajkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-05-0.u21879	I understand politics, I have been dealing with it for ten years, but I cannot understand that it is not politically correct and profitable in this difficult situation when we are struggling for Kosovo and Metohija to remain that both Serbian citizens from Kosovo and Metohija are in this constitutional commission. I'm not just talking about DOS, I'm talking about all the parties. Please, what is the relationship towards Kosovo and Metohija also says about the establishment of a committee on Kosovo and Metohija. Simply, gentlemen, no matter what I belong to that option, I must say openly - your relationship or, to be even more honest, since I am part of this story, our relationship with Kosovo and Metohija is disastrous and with such a relationship I cannot agree with; simply, I feel that I am involved in something where I cannot contribute to anything in Kosovo and Metohija and around Kosovo and Metohija being resolved. Simply, Kosovo and the Metohija for this parliament do not exist, it is marginalized and should be held accountable for it. That's not acceptable to me. I find it unfortunate that I am the only DOS, although there are three others from DOS, or DSS, you have four MPs, the DSS has three MPs from Kosovo and Metohija, please suggest one representative who will be competent to participate in the work of the Constitutional Commission, compared to twenty, thirty people. What's the matter? Why is it bothering you? How people will feel about the relationship, how those Serbs who remained to keep Serbia down will feel, and Serbia does not want their representatives, who represent their interests and fight for Kosovo and Metohija to remain in Serbia, to be part of an agreement on a future common state. I think it's unacceptable and political, either it's malicious or it's politically naive, I don't know.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-05-0.u21880	There's a word from MP Dejan Mihajlov, on behalf of the DSS parliamentary group, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-05-0.u21881	First of all, we believe that Kosovo is an integral part of Serbia and that there is no need for Kosovo as part of Serbia to be particularly territorially presented in writing this constitutional Charter, because this would send a bad message to public opinion, that we should treat Kosovo as a special part and I don't think it's good at all. We at the DSS felt that these people who are proposed for the Constitutional Commission could very well represent the interests of citizens of all Serbia and that there was no need for Kosovo as part of Serbia to separate from Serbia and represent it especially in the Constitutional Commission. If it is known that according to the initial foundations for the reconstruction of the federal state of Serbia-Montenegro it is guaranteed that Kosovo, if there is a separation of Serbia-Montenegro after three years, becomes an integral part of Serbia, although Resolution 1244 said Kosovo is an integral part of Serbia-Yugoslavia, these guarantees simply show that the international community's determination to make Kosovo an integral part of Serbia. We felt, although we have three MPs from Kosovo, that it should not be represented territorially, because this would mean a bad message to both public opinion and the international community, because we absolutely believe that Kosovo is an integral part of Serbia. Everything we do in this assembly, by collecting signatures for the establishment of a committee on Kosovo and Metohija, and everything else, is going towards returning Serbia to Kosovo and returning Kosovo to the fuller integrity and jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia, so this separation by territorial principle is something that cannot be done much good.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-05-0.u21882	The word comes from MP Dragan Markovic, president of the SSJ parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-05-0.u21883	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Soviet Union has not given its representatives for a constitutional charter for a number of reasons. I will first refer to Mr Trajkovic's speech -- it is not taken into account what is most important, that according to Resolution 1244, Kosovo is part of Yugoslavia, and it is known that Yugoslavia will not be if this agreement is adopted and if the Constitutional Charter agrees. What it means - it means that Serbs from Cosmet so far have never been asked to say what they think and show the right situation in Cosmet. I think it is a big mistake that this agreement is not questioned by a representative from Cosmeta, or the MPs; they may be asked, but based on a statement by Mr. Trajkovic, I came to the conclusion that they were not offered the place. The SS didn't give their representatives for a few reasons. We did not want to vote for the initial basis for redecorating Serbia-Montenegro's relations because it is proposed that the same number of ministers have both Montenegrins and Serbs. Well, Montenegrins with 600,000 inhabitants cannot have the same rights as Serbs with 8.5 million inhabitants. Special customs are also said to have Montenegrins, special Serbs. It is known that Montenegro has an exit to the sea, that a complete transit will go through Montenegro and that Montenegro will pick up that percentage of customs, and that Serbia will have damage, as it happened for car registration, when we remembered that we should do so, we lost billions of marks. The Soviet Union also disagrees because the agreement stipulates that we have a rotating chair in the UN. Whom will be represented by a representative from Montenegro when he sits on that chair -- of course, 600,000 residents. The interests of 600,000 people and 8.5 million people in Serbia are not the same. We believe, if the proposed proposal is accepted, that Serbs will have the damage they had so far, only this proposal and the Constitutional Charter will verify all the rights that the Montenegrins once sought. This is done, we believe, in order to satisfy the DOS parties and that certain small parties that are in DOS accept this proposed charter, so that they can remain in power. Also in Montenegro - you see, in the Federal Assembly, there is a representative from Montenegro, from the SNP; they went to the elections, and other parties from Montenegro boycotted the elections. Hundreds of thousands of voters in Montenegro went to the polls then. Imagine, 100,000 voters also voted for 100,000 voters, i.e. the SNP, cannot represent Montenegro as the citizens of Montenegro think and believe it is. The Soviet Union will not participate in this, and it advises you to reject this and to seek and propose a new proposal, as this proposal only brings damage to Serbia and its citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-05-0.u21884	The word is made by MP Momcilo Trajkovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-05-0.u21885	I just want to say this one more time, and I'm not gonna answer it again. I think it is wrong, politically and also for the psychological reasons and security of this people, not to include the Kosovo-Methochian Serbs in the agreement on the construction of the Constitutional Charter; it is wrong because this message means that there are no Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija who can contribute to the creation of this charter, or agreement on the common state, which says we are little interested in Kosovo and Metohija. I want to say this -- if there was a better policy in Belgrade for us in Kosovo and Metohija, it would have been much better, but never for Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija to have had the opportunity to be a creative factor in resolving the whole state and national issue. I protest that Kosovo-Methohic Serbs, who are in a specific situation and who should get a position to be a factor in the creative resolution of the state and national issue, are excluded from this issue. So I'm not talking about territorial representation here at all. Here we are talking about a special situation, a situation where it would be of multiple benefit if Kosovo-Methohic Serbs were part of the policy. Why aren't they part of that policy? I just can't understand it. Most likely, they're not their real representatives here. But, well, while we're here, we're their representatives. Here, I exclude myself from it, and I find it very uncomfortable that I am from Kosovo and Metohija; I ask to be excluded from it, but also to find the means to include a representative of the Kosovo-Methochian Serbs, because that is why we gain multiple political gains. What will those people who were left there say? That their representatives are not capable enough to be part of that policy. We want not only to be a figure, we want to be policymakers, no matter what we're from Kosovo and Metohija and what someone thinks we're treating it as a special territory. It's not about special territory, it's about a special situation and the particular fate of that nation that depends on whether Serbia in Kosovo and Metohija will be or will not be. With this story, with this kind of relationship, we who are from Kosovo and Metohija are just moving away from Serbia, and we are running, we are tightening Serbia, we want to stay with it. This attitude towards us is not a policy that can keep Kosovo and Metohija in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-05-0.u21886	Are any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, applying for a word? No, I don't. ) The list was only reported by the SPS parliamentary group. The word is from MP Rajko Baralic. Please, the time of your parliamentary group is 44 minutes since you are the only speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-05-0.u21887	A long, mutual pleasure, I hope. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Micic, respected journalists, I thought he was talking -- we and you -- there's only between the DSS and the DS. It now exists between the Serbian Resistance and the rest of the DOS. Lately you remembered that there was this kind of problem between you two. The way the decision to elect members of the Constitutional Commission is proposed has been challenged in a legitimate way by the head of our parliamentary club. You, of course, claimed it wasn't true. In addition, Article 45. The Rules of Procedure, an existing one, which is still valid for a few minutes until this new one comes out of the press, which is a summation of everything restrictive that exists on the globe of the Earth, is regulated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Since this is very short, I will read: "The Committee on Constitutional Affairs is considering a proposal to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, a proposal to amend the Constitution of the SRJ and the statutes of the Autonomous provinces in the process of giving consent to the National Assembly, a proposal to launch a procedure for impeachment of the President of the Republic, as well as the principles of application of the Constitution. The chairman of the Committee shall be President of the National Assembly. Why, then, a special commission? You don't trust the president of the National Assembly or the board members you've chosen. Then why does this committee exist? What is the subject of his work in parliament, and what is his function in accordance with the Constitution of Laws? Why the ad hoc commission? Why not a competent congregation body? These are some questions you can't answer yourself. The position of the SPS parliamentary group in relation to this nakarada formation, which you call state, is well known. No one can be from Kosovo on this committee because a decision on who can not make this assembly in this commission. In fact, this assembly can decide who on this committee may be, but who can't be in that commission decides Mr. Javier Solana, and that's exactly right. Only from Kosovo on this committee can there be no one. In this way, the legitimacy of this authority and the legitimacy of this parliament are brought into play. How this thing today will support here the Democratic Party of Serbia when its president, who is also Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, says that what Mr Solana is now preparing is a hundred times worse than what the state has given so-called. It's a frog's work. You've had so much fun here. You have no answer to a number of questions, and there are more and more of those questions that are raised before you by the citizens of Serbia, in a way that is very unpleasant for you and that asks you first of all to take a brave, single brave step in what you are doing and to call extraordinary parliamentary elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-05-0.u21888	Mr. Baralic, I warn you to return to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-05-0.u21889	I'm very much on the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-05-0.u21890	It is - a proposal for a decision on the election of members of the Constitutional Commission. [[Sagar.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-05-0.u21891	Of course, of course, I'm very much on the subject. I pray once again to those who earn, Rajko, God, do not take the name of the Lord God in vain. [[Sagar.]] Yes, yes, of course, that's very important. [[Sagar.]] You will, of course, do this thing as you are asked, as you do and everything else you are asked to do - you will select members of the Constitutional Commission for the making of the Constitutional Charter and so on you will do so. a state community you do not believe in in the beginning, which has none of the known attributes of the state and which only has the task of saving Javier Solana and Milo Djukanovic. That's all you can do. There's something else you can do, but it's hard for you to decide because your mentors won't let you. And you've moved this session today to the third channel of Serbian Television. I suggest you transfer it to some of these famous little local TV stations. You can't impress anyone for a long time, not by what you suggest, not by what you do, forbidden transmissions or not, it doesn't matter. What you do will become public, no matter how...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-05-0.u21892	Mr Baralic, please, you are the only registered speaker and please stick to the subject of the agenda and respect the patience of the MPs. You got the word...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-05-0.u21893	Ladies can be ladies and I can be a gentleman, so I ask you that the time of the SPS, according to the old Rules of Procedure, can still be used and exploited...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-05-0.u21894	That doesn't mean you can say whatever you want, but you have to stick to the agenda theme.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-05-0.u21895	I always say what I want, unlike many of you who say what they have to, but here, I'll do you a favor; make another decision in the old Rules of Procedure, take another step more than the next morning with a fresh color and fresh rules. We will fight with you as we have so far, do not think that you will scare us, that we will step away from our political struggle and that you will thus be able to ensure the political discipline of opposition parliamentary groups in the Parliament of the Republic of Serbia. God help you, you need his help.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-05-0.u21896	Since there are no more entries for the word, I ask if the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want the word? No, I don't. ) I ask if the word of the act's promoter, MP Cedomir Jovanovic, wants? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a unique search. I put to the vote a motion for a decision on the election of members of the Constitutional Commission for the construction of the Constitutional Charter, the highest legal act by the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. For 128, against 13 abstentions, 10 were not voted 45, out of 196 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision to elect members of the Constitutional Commission for the Construction of the Constitutional Charter, the highest legal act by the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. I congratulate the elected members of the Constitutional Commission and wish them success in their work. These are MPs: Prof. Dr. Dragor Hiber, Srdjan Sikimic, Išpanovic Istvan, Bosko Ristic, Dejan Mihajlov, Dragan Jočić, Nenad Lemajic, Mujo Mukovic and Nebojsa Lekovic. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Decision on the discharge and the appointment of Members of the Republic of the Election Commission and their deputies You have been given a proposal for a decision, with a correction, submitted by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the DOS Parliamentary Group, replacing the text of the proposal for a decision delivered to you on 31 May 2002. You have been served with amendments submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic to the proposal for a decision. Amendments which, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, will be submitted until the opening of the search will be given to you during the session. I remind you, according to Article 157(3) and Article 90 respectively. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours. I ask the presidents of the parliamentary groups to hand over the lists of registered speakers on this agenda item. Consent to Article 157. I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly a single search into the motion for a decision. Does the promoter, MP Cedomir Jovanovic, want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-05-0.u21897	Ms. Micic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is another item of the agenda that has, above all, a technical character and I think we will easily agree that there is no parliamentary or parliamentary precedent in it. The initiative launched, early this year, was actually due to the knowledge that, within the current Republic Election Commission, we have an unacceptable number of representatives of today's non-parliamentary parties, since the Republic Election Commission was formed in October 2000. Meanwhile, elections have been held and the principle on which the Republic Election Commission has so far rested in a permanent meeting; I am not talking about the work it has been named after the vote -- the principle of party representation that has its parliamentary clubs within the Republic of Parliament. At the same time and in line with this initiative, the DOS parliamentary group has launched an initiative to replace members of the Republic Election Commission, taking into account the efforts of the secretary of the Republic Assembly, but also the interests of the parties, members of our coalition that have parliamentary clubs within the Republic of Parliament. What I am obliged to say to you is that, as a parliamentary group, we have fully respected the rules on which the Republic Election Commission has been established so far, that we have asked the representatives of the opposition parties to delegate their representatives within the Republic Election Commission, with respect to the full request and position of the SSJ, while in the case of the SPS, having regard to the limits established by law, we have to choose between the two representatives of one and that which was not disputed by the Secretary of the Republic Assembly's initiative. In parallel with all these events, I am also obliged to give you the explanation of a technical error that occurred as a result of the neglect of the fact that, in addition to the Republic Election Commission at the moment, they function through the permanent composition and the municipal electoral commission, so that the proposed President of the Republic Election Commission is, at the same time, the President of the City Election Commission; therefore, we have made a correction and proposed the President of the Fifth Municipal Court, respecting this unwritten rule of work of the Republic Election Commission, for the role of the President, withdrawing the proposal by Mr Kljajevic, who remained the permanent president of the City Election Commission. Everything else is actually the issue of this parliamentary procedure and the technology of the work of the Republic Election Commission. The non-replaced members are the other members who have already represented, as far as DOS is concerned, and our parliamentary club and our interest within the Republic Election Commission, which is Ms Maja Vasic and Biserka Zivkovic, while some deputies are parallel to them being promoted to member status. Meanwhile, certain members of the Republic Election Commission have also become MPs, and on this basis, they have ceased the status of members, i.e. deputies in RIK, and I think that, given all these facts, this item of the agenda should have passed just as the consultations had passed with agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-05-0.u21898	Thank you. I ask if the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want to speak on this agenda point? Yeah. ) Please, the word is made by MP Zarko Obradovic, president of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-05-0.u21899	Dear Presidency, fellow Members of Parliament, allow me to make several views on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group on the proposal for a decision on the resolution and appointment of members of the Republic Election Commission and their deputies. 1. The good side of this decision, the change of the electoral commission, is that the electoral commission always changes before the elections. The state of the country is such that it is clear to everyone that the choice must be at all levels. This was also seen by the government of the Republic of Serbia, the executive power in the state of Serbia, whose work also brought Serbia into this devastating situation, both in the field of state policy and in the sphere of economy and citizens' standards. 2. The same government of the Republic of Serbia, which is proposing this extraordinary session, daily convinces us that there is stability in Parliament and outside Parliament, that it can rule the entire mandate, and then suddenly, in half of its mandate, changes the organs that need to prepare and conduct republican elections. 3. One logical question arises - why is the composition of the Electoral Commission changing? If the answer is for the election, then fine. If it is claimed there is no choice, then why change the composition of the electoral commission? The public must know that the Law on the selection of MPs has established the mandate of the Republic Election Commission of four years. The law does not change, because it is not proposed to amend it, but it is clearly done contrary to the law and shortens the mandate of the Commission, for only the Government of known reasons. Why is the Election Commission changing? Her work of December 2000, on the other hand, had no objections, no political parties, no other entities that participated in the elections. By changing the existing composition of the Commission before the time these people were elected, members of the election commission so far are getting a negative assessment in public, which they did not deserve, because nobody but the promoters and doesn't know why they are changing! The main thing is that the change in the composition of the Commission is determined before time by the positions of the DOS before the elections. There is reason to suspect that the election commission's change in its composition is seeking to achieve other goals of importance for the DOS; that the Election Commission wants to make decisions regarding the mandates of MPs that will be in the role of maintaining the government of the Republic of Serbia and fighting political inexperiences, whether they are within the DOS, whether they are in the ranks of the opposition, above all in the Socialist Party of Serbia. When it comes to the composition of the Commission, the question is whether it reflects the structure of parliamentary groups, or parties in Parliament. There is no reason not to tell the Assembly what the proposals are and whether there are any. Under the Law on the Selection of National MPs, Article 33(1) of the Republic Election Commission is appointed by the National Assembly, on the proposal of parliamentary groups in the National Assembly. So every parliamentary group that was registered here was obliged to submit a proposal to the electoral commission. Is it done - it would be good to hear. Finally, it is obvious that, in the context of comprehensive reforms carried out by the government of the Republic of Serbia, in addition to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, the Commission's reform is certainly also a priority, as is seen in relation to this proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-05-0.u21900	Are any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, answering for a word? No, I don't. ) Only the SPS parliamentary group, one speaker, MP Rajko Baralic, submitted their application for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-05-0.u21901	Mostly what was to be said here on behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group, said Dr Zarko Obradovic, head of our parliamentary club. I want to encourage the citizens of Serbia and citizens... That's right, Zoran, the choice will certainly be. No one holding power makes personal changes in the Electoral Commission without thinking the election is close. That's good. There is what is not good - the additional elections in Presevo and Bujanovac. Whose request it is, we'll change the electoral law. These two things are in correlation. We'll talk about the consequences later. I mean, I've known some people on this committee personally. So it's about the faces that this congregation needs to resolve today. They did their job with honor, in all things, according to the Law. I won't mention one name, because my thanks can hurt him, and one I will, because my thanks can't hurt him anymore. You can't do anything to him anymore. He's retired. It's about Mr. Veroljub Raketic, former district court president in Cačka. Mr. Raketic is the person who chaired the Council who sentenced Clinton, Blair and the rest of the team. It's an honor to have been from Cacca, to have been a member of the Republic Election Commission, and to have chaired this council. I regret that he does not remain a member of the Republic Election Commission.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-05-0.u21902	Since there are no more entries for the word, I ask if the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want the word? No, I don't. ) We move on to a decision on amendments. National MP Tomislav Nikolic has tabled an amendment proposing that Chapter I be deleted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 22, against 122 abstentions, there was no 44 vote, a total of 188 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Tomislav Nikolic has tabled an amendment proposing that Chapter II be deleted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 23, against 116 abstentions, there were no 50 votes, out of 189 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Since we have completed a single search on the proposal for a decision and a decision on amendments, does MP Cedomir Jovanovic want to give the final statement? No, I don't. ) I conclude a single search and put to the vote the motion for a decision on the resolution and appointment of members of the Republic Election Commission and their deputies. For 127, there is no, abstention one, has not voted 61, out of 189 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision on the resolution and appointment of members of the Republic Election Commission and their deputies. Ladies and gentlemen, this is what we would do today's workday. I'm setting a break and we'll continue work tomorrow at 10.00 hours, because the motionary's not present. Another announcement - a session of the Legislative Committee will be held after the session is completed in Hall I on the ground floor, means immediately. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the Second Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 142 MPs attend the session. Please insert identification cards into your MPs to determine the quorum. I find that using the electronic system has established that we have a quorum and that we can continue to work. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. Also, according to members 83 and 84. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that I invited representatives of the Centre for Free Elections and Democracy, the People's Movement "Resistance" and the National Demogratical Institute to this session. I welcome the guests present. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Meho Omerović, Slavoljub Matić, Ljubisa Djokovic, Pal Karolj, Ratimir Svirčević, Petar Misic, Branimir Trajkovic, Milan Ernjaković, Slobodan Pavlovic and Vladimir Garčević; and in the morning, MPs Slobodan Adžic, Predrag Stojanović and Dragan Jočić. We move to the fourth item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Local Elections You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted to the Bill: Olgica Kirjanski, Rodoljub Šabić and Meho Omerović, Živko Selaković, Dragan Marković, Vojislav Seselj, Vukosav Tomašević, Vladimir Dobrosavljevic and Bojan Aleksić, Milka Marinković, Anita Beretić, Neda Arnerić, Gordana Čomić, Milena Milošević, Aleksandra Joksimović, Dušica Andrović and Gorica Veljović, Boško Ničić, Ljubodrag Grbić, Bratoljub Janacković, Slobodan Raduić and Hrboša Žeković, Milorada Stanulović, Siniša Mitrić, Ružica Tožica and Zoran Žalović and Zoran Agelović, Joca Arsić, Joca Arsić, Joca Arsić and Hrnoslav Perić, Nebošjažaža Žiković and Golub Rajić Živić and Golub Rajal Živić Živić, Radarić, Radan Žražić. You have received reports from the Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee, as well as from the Government on individual amendments. At the meeting of the Committee on Justice and Administration, the MPs George Mamula and Dusan Budishin were singled out. At a session of the Committee on Justice and Administration, MP Milka Marinkovic, on behalf of the applicants for the amendment, withdrew the amendment to Article 3. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that according to Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total time of debate in principle for parliamentary groups shall be five hours. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. I'm opening a principled search. Before I ask if the motionary's representative wants a word, I would like to inform you that the representative for this item of the agenda is Deputy Prime Minister Nebojsa Covic and is currently in Bujanovac. He'll be here late, and we're expecting him around 13.00 hours. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Do the MPs who gave their opinion want a word? The word has the People's Messenger George Mamula.
