ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20799	Dear People's MPs, my predecessors, MPs, have said a lot of what I would say. I'd only hold on to two or three things. I don't think it's right that in elementary school he can be the principal of a man who has a higher school, or a higher pedagogical school, especially when a secretary in that same elementary school has to have a high level of professional training. There are almost no teachers and teachers in elementary schools today in the old sense. They're mostly teachers. And teachers end up or they're done teaching college, so they've got high-level professional training. I know the situation in Chačka, in all these schools there are still four or five teachers who are mostly retired and in what year everyone in primary school will have to have and will have college. Second, as far as the school boards are concerned, since I spent my entire working life in high school, they had almost no role in school before. The principals were mostly appointed by a committee, two or three men from the school's party organisation going to the committee secretary and he tells them who could be the head of the school. The school boards didn't decide anything. Now the school boards are playing a very important role. I mean, if one school has 100 teachers, and they're all high and elementary schools in Chačka, I don't see any reason why these 100 professors, 100 people with college qualifications, can't make themselves a director. They need a tutor on the side. You know, if 100 people with higher education can't ask themselves who's the best among them, I don't know who can take sides. That's why I'm proposing that there be five teachers from school and two members from parents and the community. The situation in school (I was in class recently, I know) is very painful, difficult. The highest salary of a professor in front of a pension is about nine thousand and something, it's about 300 dinars a day. These people can't train their children out of place and really live very modestly, even poorly. That's why it's the story of judges who will have 30 grand, i.e. A thousand marks, and professors who have under 10,000, really funny and pathetic, that a judge can have three to four times the pay of a professor. As far as religious science is concerned, not only did I teach her, but my father taught me, he was a believer, I have to admit that it was a very difficult subject for me, because I couldn't shut up, he would have taken me out in class. I don't think there's anything wrong with learning in religion, and I don't see any reason why many people try to get religious out of school programs. She's just been introduced and I hope she stays. There's never been more atheists than a theist. So I guess that majority should decide whether to be religious or not. Now I'm just going to illustrate this to you with an example from 1945, when a communist official in Chačka gathered us first-class girls in high school, in lower high school then, and gave us a speech. The speech began like this, and so he ended up saying, "Dear comrades and friends, no more God, the new god is Comrade Stalin." Here's the consequences, and after 60 years, unfortunately, they feel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20800	The word has a folk MP Sreten Mitrovica, followed by Jelena Milenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20801	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Mr Minister, primary and secondary education in the area of Kosovo and Metohija, thanks to the care of our country and the Republic of Serbia, and in particular the Ministry of Education, in difficult conditions it has functioned in accordance with the Law on Fundamental, Or Secondary School, Labour Act, and the Rules on Teacher Plans and Programmes, as well as other positive regulations in the field of education that apply and apply throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia. All the changes that take place in the field of education, as changes and additions to regulations, laws, in these areas are consistently applied. We are very interested in the issue of reforming the education and school system, and we are paying special attention to this issue. Our position, as well as the attitude of parents and students, is that the primary and secondary education of our children in this area must remain in the educational system of the Republic of Serbia, which is in line with Resolution 1244 and with the United Nations declaration of the right to education of all peoples, from preschool to university system. The arrival of KFOR and UNMIK in 1999 led to a major exodus and a major humanitarian disaster that, unfortunately, is still going on. There is no significant shift three years after the bombing on the most essential human rights, freedom of movement, the right to work and the return of displaced persons. Such a situation, which takes place, has been significantly reflected in both primary and secondary education, continuing in Serbian, and all its forms of work, both teaching and extracurricular activities. I will present a brief review of primary and secondary schools in central Kosovo i.e. Kosovo County. School 1998-1999, before the exodus, there were 48 primary schools, with a number of out-of-state schools, and 19 secondary schools. Of this, the school 1999-2000, following UNMIK and KFOR's arrival, remained 19 primary schools in the places where they were and 29 primary schools were displaced outside Kosovo and Metohija. Of the 19 secondary schools, 11 remained; they were expelled from their facilities, mostly in cities, and the teaching was attended in nearby villages, in primary schools. Only from Pristina, from the city itself, has been displaced, and are no longer in office, 11 primary and 8 secondary schools. There is no teaching in Serbian in the city itself, and teaching takes place in the surrounding villages in very difficult conditions. Because of lack of school space, classes take place in three shifts. A special story is the transportation of students from Pristina to school facilities in certain villages, accompanied by Greek KFOR battalions' children's cars. The municipalities of Uroševac, Štimlje and Podujevo suffered a complete exodus of the Serbian people. In these municipalities, no secondary or elementary school works. In Kosovo municipalities, Polje and Obilic operate elementary schools where KFOR wanted to ensure the safety of students, or they were also moved to Serb villages. Especially difficult is the situation in the municipality of Lipjan, which had 70% of Serbs before the war - primary and secondary schools were expelled from their facilities and teaching takes place in tents. It is the exact same situation in all towns and schools where classes take place in Serbian, in Serbian environments across Kosovo and Metohija. Despite the great exodus and many difficulties, thanks to educational workers who remained with local authorities, who, with great help and support from the Ministry of Education of the Republic of Serbia, the Yugoslav Committee for Co-operation with UNMIK (who at the time worked) and the interim executive council of Kosovo and Metohija, did everything possible to ensure that the teaching takes place according to the law and the unique curricula of the Republic of Serbia. Thanks to, above all, the organisation of school and health institutions in Serb enclaves, the full eviction of Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija has been prevented. Therefore, if there is a genuine desire from the authorities to retain Serbs who remained in Kosovo and Metohija and to enable those who were expelled to return, during their visits and talks with educational workers should not make an obstacle statement, as happened during the visit of the President of the Co-ordination Centre, Neboja Covic and the assistant minister of Education, Serbia's Turajlic, in Gracanica, or Laplem Selo. With such statements, we met the committees on which we discussed education. The Ministry of Education of Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija are asking for the following solutions in co-operation with UNMIK: for our primary and secondary schools in Kosovo and Metohija to remain in the network of schools of the Republic of Serbia, for education and education to take place in our schools according to the curricula and programmes prescribed by the Ministry of Education of the Republic of Serbia and for all prescribed documentation of students to be issued under applicable regulations in the Republic of Serbia, for the financing of our schools to be made out of the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20802	Minister of Education Mr. Gašo Knezevic called for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20803	I need to speak to one of the MPs. Don't forget one thing: the contract, or the agreement on the withdrawal of the military and the police, signed the previous government. This assembly voted that retreat. You left the teachers there to defend the Serbia. Despite that fact -- that you pulled those forces and signed the withdrawal, the new government defended education in Kosovo, returned the university to Kosovo, it entered the new university, teaching takes place in Serbian, all teachers there fund. Thus, by the superhuman efforts we have succeeded in what you have ruined.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20804	The word is from the MP Jelena Milenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20805	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, MPs, draft laws on amendments and amendments to the law on primary and secondary school are one step ahead of the laws that we have so far and that we have regulated this area of social life so far. Especially if we start with the fact that in the field of education and education there are no radical cuts, then so much this law can be considered more rational and logical. At the very beginning, I would like to say that Members of the SDP are largely in favour of this law, first and foremost in the part relating to the launch of the decentralisation process, i.e. the transfer of executive powers to the provinces and local self-government, as well as increased professional-pedagogical supervision of all segments of the school's work. First of all, I believe that the envisaged processes or projected measures in many ways can rationalise, increase the efficiency and quality of the teaching and scientific process. However, the part of the law that applies primarily to university subjects so far, which were religious, or civic education, is at the very least problematic. First of all, even before the regulation that made these items a university and as such introduced into primary and secondary schools, we heard different polemics, and we heard this from Mr. Minister yesterday in the opening presentation. So there were all sorts of arguments about and against this act. But then the Social Democracy and Social Democratic Union MPs, and today the Social Democratic Party, expressed their position unequivocally. First of all, the state and the church are two separate entities and this very fact is one of the civilizations of the age-old society. In fact, the state has a duty to allow each individual the conditions, or frameworks that he can uninterruptedly express and express his faith, but all that would relate to the interference of the state in propagating any religion, any religion, would be a sort of violation of the jurisdiction of the state, or that would be one step backwards from what we have already achieved, as we have said, of the already achieved civilization values. I think that before any move is made, which can be shaped and engaged within any law or whether it's any other social intensity, which can have another social phenomenon, we must always take care of the global aspects, but not just that, but the exact moment we live in and the moments behind us. While we were opposition, and of course we are doing it today, we are committed to building a multinational, multi-confessional and multi-ethnic society. That's what we're doing today, of course. So I'm saying for construction, we didn't achieve that goal. On the contrary, only the conditions for building that goal have improved, but we still need to work on building such a society. We cannot ignore the fact that for the last ten years we have witnessed various bloody conflicts, which have had ethnic, national and religious motives in their very essence. So the state right now has to work on the following things, which is that all those points, elements, or those opportunities that can lead to division among citizens, if not completely eradicated and eliminated, at least mitigate them, but not knowingly install them into the teaching and education system. I believe that the introduction of religion is not a very smart move, not to use any other word, for the simple reason that you in one school do not share only believers and non-believers in children, but also in the framework of the believers you share in members of one religion, the other or the third. And in general, the very term of the traditional religious community, which is mentioned in this bill, is also problematic, because what are the criteria on which it can be determined which religious community is traditional and which is not. I believe that, according to basic human rights, everyone has the right to choose, or to choose their own vision of the world and the image of this world, and no one can impose that image of the world or even of the state, for the simple reason that it would otherwise be one repression of free consciousness. In the end, I have to say that we have to be rational and look at the simplest situation from some real angle. Today religious teaching, and due to religious teaching introduced, civic education is being used as academic subjects; then, in the end, I must say: religious teaching as a university subject - yes, but as an electoral object - absolutely not.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20806	The word has a folk MP, Zivko Selakovic, and the next registered speaker is MP Nenad Lemajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20807	Madam President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the MP group of the Serbian Unity Party is considering both proposals for school law, basic and secondary education, and there are many objections, as well as suggestions for them. Given the time we have, I will look back at the basic school bill in my presentation. In Article 5. The bill stands - the work of an educational inspector can be done by a graduate lawyer, etc., not to mention, at least three years of employment. In the second position of the same member, it is said that it can perform this job and a person with adequate professional training and at least five years of work experience, which would mean that the school director, who takes at least five years of work as well as a school as a whole, can be controlled by someone with less professional experience. Therefore, it should be mandatory to stand in this article - with at least five years of employment, as a single condition. Article 12 should specify: for religious teaching and another electoral subject, the evaluation should be described, as well as for governance. For this class so much before, because the descriptive assessment does not affect the overall success. In Article 15, it is also unclear and inconclusive, at least in my opinion, given that, among other things, there are political definitions and things like that, and we know that the teacher and the expert associate explicitly commits it not to be. In Article 24, it is illogical that there are only three members of the school board. A total of nine members of the school board are required to be five members of the teacher’s staff, i.e. members of the school. If such a proposal, offered in this article, is adopted, it means that the school is also politicized and there is a room for solving school problems, and we know that politics is not a place in school. In the review of the provisions of the law on elementary school that are being changed, by the way, about the class grade teaching from I to IV class is almost not spoken. Not a word about teachers, who are unobstructed for class classes. One of the most important questions is therefore raised: what about children from I to IV who cannot move from one class to another. Article 79 should read as follows: a teacher, an expert associate and an educator should not choose a director, but a special body based on school level, and the school board should accept or reject the proposal. Otherwise, the centralized possibility of a school director would be with great opportunities. Article 122a. Item 9 regulates the profile and choice of school secretary. The secretary of the school must be a lawyer with at least five years of employment. It's not enough that's said - a professional face with high school equipment, because it's a general calling. We're all well aware that 90% of the school secretary's work is about the very knowledge of law. The bill says a lot about children distracted by development, which is right and good, but where extremely gifted children are mentioned - nowhere. It is a bit immodest for religious teaching and an electoral object to be singled out so much resources and not for the above-average, talented and gifted students from various areas. Because of everything I've been through, the MP group of the Serbian Unity Party believes that the proposal for a law on elementary school was done in a hurry, according to a general assessment, has been done by educators who haven't been involved in primary education for a long time. The proposal for a law on elementary school needs to be completed; otherwise, the MP group of the Serbian Unity Party cannot support it or vote for its adoption.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20808	The People's Messenger Nenad Lemajic has the word, and the next one declared for the word is the People's Messenger Bozidar Vujic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20809	Dear People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman, today we are considering the draft laws on amendments and additions to the Law on Fundamentals and the Law on High School. No doubt it's an extremely significant area. It's about laws that regulate one of the vital activities in our country -- education, and that segment of education at the basic and high school level. It is unnecessary to say the importance of this segment of education for the perspectives of peoples and states. The area of education has always been under the special care of the state, but in a slightly wrong way. There was much more administrative intervention, it was seen that education was placed under state control, than it was quality intervention to advance education and rise to the level we really needed. There is no doubt that the draft laws on amendments and additions to the law on primary and secondary school are a positive step forward, but only in those segments they are dealing with. It is already known from the very name that these are incomplete laws. So we're sort of fixing old solutions. Unfortunately, they are affecting the periphery of the problem, mainly by making changes in an area where in administrative and administrative terms the state and the school system are being touched. As for these changes, I think they're good, but in many ways they're not complete. Our education system has been ruined for years, both in the material and pedagogical sense, and in the area of legal solutions. Of course, the consequences of all this are the current state of teaching in primary and secondary schools, where educators are almost the last dam of the total collapse of this extremely important area. I have the impression that the government is not the best way to understand how much we need quality solutions in the field of education and how much this area is priority in the overall reform system. We must not allow education at this important moment of transition to go on some side track, where it will wait for a better time to solve some allegedly priority tasks. As far as the laws are concerned, I think they're good in many ways. At the end of the line, they can come down to a few newspapers. First of all, there is a new way of establishing school boards; then, there has been separation of administrative and professional supervision; pedagogical calls are also introduced, which allows professional teachers to advance. All those solutions are, in my opinion, pretty good. As for the constitution of the school boards, I think a good measure has been found between the influence of the school itself, the influence of local self-government and parents. However, some other solutions could have been found. The DSS has proposed an amendment related to the school committees that, in our opinion, even better defines this issue. The separation of administrative and professional supervision represents, in some ways, a return to the old. The educational inspectors are coming back. I think in this case this return to old means progress, because the practice of previous years has shown that if we combine administrative supervision and pedagogical surveillance into one man's personality, then we get bad solutions in both areas. I think this re-separation will give a good result and that practice definitely showed that the old experiment with single surveillance was bad. Professional advances of teachers and the introduction of pedagogical titles will certainly improve teaching and give further motives to educators, who have not had the opportunity so far, to advance in the event of higher quality teaching and that they are in some way being educated. In addition to these good solutions, it is a pity that the Ministry of Education did not find the strength to engage in any further problems, particularly related to the general education strategy. I don't think that without a clear national and civil education strategy, we can certainly improve our school system in quality. These elements could also be legally standardized. Also, one important question is about talented students. There's a lot of talented kids in our schools. For years, not to say for decades, at least on words, we've been paying attention to these talented children, but more or less to discover and some additional education of those talented children hasn't gotten too far. There are some good shifts there and there, but the system has not, in my opinion, solved them in quality. I think this was a chance to make some changes there, too. It's too bad these changes and additions haven't been done already. Let's hope that in the near future there will be a change in that direction. As far as the DSS is concerned, we in our proposals take care of this particular sphere, because we believe that in a system of quality education it is extremely important to see very talented students. It is a pity that at least to a greater extent, there is no emphasis on the possibilities of a more flexible teaching plan and programme, so that we can at least follow the pedagogical flows in the world. There is a need to find a real relationship between the unique and mandatory teaching content and the possibility to introduce at the local level modalities that will cover the specific needs of the community. I would say that a little bit has been done, in fact, nothing, that these laws make themselves compatible with the relevant legislation in Europe. The attention, according to the DSS, should have been paid more to the persons doing professional work in schools and their role as a much better legal solution. First of all, this is where we think of the educator, psychologist, defecologist, social worker, librarian, etc. Finally, to recap, let's not let the price of reform pay for education and education, that this area is on the tail of reform processes, which, with these incomplete solutions, may happen. Support for amendments and additions to the DSS law will certainly be given; it will also give praise for this part of the job which, undoubtedly, is quality done, but we will also make strong remarks because with the overall reform in education, both in the legislative and institutional, material and pedagogical sphere. In this regard, however, the greatest responsibility is both the Minister and the Ministry of Education, as well as the Government, which, I think, sometimes forgets that it is tasked with implementing reforms rather than talking about reforms.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20810	The word has the Minister of Education, Mr. Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20811	Just because I agree with the predecessor to a great extent, with Mr. Lemajic, I asked for a word. There are curricula problems. That's not controversial. I want to tell you that in January, we had a counseling session and that the White Book came out. So there is a strategy. It is on a very broad basis brought, with a consultation of a maximum number of people - 8,500 people. That's a terrible number. I want to tell you what's going on right now, to say it briefly in five sentences. Three are basic tasks: First, strengthening schools through restoring autonomy to schools; we do this with these laws; strengthening school boards; strengthening parents' advice with development plans and projects that schools have. Development plans and projects are already being developed in schools, so in concrete environments. Our second goal is to professionalise through working with teachers. Training chains have already been organized, i.e. schooling teachers and through a strong, important professionalization of the administration we have begun to teach school directors how to run schools, because they have to be managers. And the third question is the quality of teaching. It's the first time we've introduced pizza tests and we'll figure out what's with us, watch out, not bad, but what's good in our system, looking at it in parallel. We're now entering the school with pizza tests, and these are international tests. We are making relevant changes to plans and programmes, school equipment, we are also doing external entrance exams, and this entrance exam will first be a step towards external entrance exams. So what I'm saying is, there are a lot of concrete things that have already come out of that strategy and we're doing them. Something else, as far as time goes, I understand the need to say a thing and say it like you said, but four months ago, we passed the law, and at no point did I want to accuse anyone, I know you have too much to do, I know that you've been bombed every day by new agendas, but it's not so much to the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20812	The People's Messenger, Bozidar Vujic, has the word, and the next is the Messenger of the people, Pal Shandor.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20813	DOS and reforms, therefore, we have DOS and they say - reform. It would be really nice if it wasn't a colorful lie. However, the sports minister said yesterday after this speaker -- these two draft laws are reforms, but they are not in the right sense; we will work on a system-based one law and how long before the end of the year you will have a real reform law on education and education. In September, it doesn't matter, at the end of the year we'll get a new law, DOS enters the third year of reform, and we don't have reforms. So much so that the people know. We're told by the Minister of Sports - three "d". It's democratisation, decentralisation and depoliticalization. All right, that's DOS attitude. These are the reforms through three "d", and what is true and what is an irrefutable fact is that after the fall of this DOS government, and that will soon follow, it must pass a new system law with four "d". It's disinfection, disinfection, deratiation and decontamination of the people from DOS. The first example, they say, is depoliticization. Here, I'll give you an example of depoliticization through a Saturday case. With a five-octobaric coup, all principals of primary schools were replaced, for the directors appointed members of the Alliance of Vojvodjan Hungarians and accompanying their satellites, two HTZ parties from Subotica. However, one has the DSS, one, and there are two other directors who will retire at the end of the school year, so there's no point in changing them. That's the depoliticization. The DOS depolitisation, which is very transparent, is very expert by DOS -- 50% of teaching staff from the Saturday municipality are teachers of Serbian nationality. Is it possible that none of them have professional, professional, or working, or pedagogical level that they can apply for director? He can't because they're not in DOS. It's depoliticization. You say "d" - decentralisation. What you've done through decentralisation is that the Ministry of Education shamefully takes down and wipes out, doesn't work, transfers to the province, transfers to local self-government and says - the director now chooses the school board, chooses it there and local self-government. When all this is done, the proposal for director goes to the minister for verification. What if the Minister doesn't happen to approve? At first? Is that decentralisation? It's not decentralisation, it's not what you said it would be. On the school boards you DOS are unable to agree, there are thousands of problems and thousands of examples. School boards aren't necessary at all. If we have a manager who's a capable manager, as the sports minister says, and a good pedagogue to do, what's the school board gonna do to him; don't you trust teachers to educate our children? It's this decentralisation. The third, you say, is democratisation. Your democratisation in DOS is only seen in the fact that you have given your parents the right for university classes, which is an electoral right, to choose whether their children will go to religious school or some quasi-civil education. The SRS has no objection to the introduction of religion, if it, which is not proposed and done by this law, is regulated in a legally-normally appropriate manner, in a certain way, and only for six recognised confesions it has in Serbia; none for religious sects; and this DOS does, allows religious sects to enter schools. By allowing religious sects to enter schools and engage in religious teaching, with drugs that are a major problem, and which DOS and the Ministry of Education in no way solve, we will have such children. I ask Serbian citizens, parents, do they want to have Chad Jovanovic in power one day for children, drug addicts and drug addicts? I don't believe that's what the parents of Serbia want with their children. What Serbia's parents want their children is for the school to really be an educational and educational institution. There's not a word in this law about school pedagogists and school psychologists. That's the DOS's transparet law, three "d", and four "d"s will come.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20814	The word of the People's Messenger Pal Shandor, Ispanovich Istvan, isplic. You mentioned a duchess party, SVM, right?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20815	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I asked for the right to reply after the mention of Subotica, and the president of the municipality in Subotica was told a series of lies regarding the replacement of school directors in Subotica. It's a simple lie. No one has been removed, but there has only been a replacement of the director after their term of office and it is not true that the national structure has been changed. I don't have the data here, however, the case works, in high school is replaced by a director, instead of a Serbian, he is now the Serbian director. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20816	I gave you the line because the duchess parties were mentioned and the SVM was mentioned, based on which you got the replica, not because you're from Subotica, Mr. Ispanovich. The word has a People's MP, Pal Shandor, and the next one registered for the word is Nebojsa Jovic. Pal Shandor is not present, the word has the MP Nebojsa Jovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20817	Honorable MPs, as a reason for the adoption of these laws, the government states that the obvious lack of education is caused by a high degree of centralisation of government at the level of the Republic. Such a bill does not essentially change much. And as fortificationists themselves, this law proposes changes that do not change the concept of education. The amendment of Article 8 states that the school prohibits activities that threaten or degrade groups and individuals based on racial, national, language, religious or semi-political orientations, as well as the promotion of such activities. Physical punishment and insult of students are forbidden at school. Physical punishment for children has long ceased in these areas. The current law required the school to protect students from political action and to adhere to all international conventions on child protection. The position of the SPS is that all children, regardless of their social and national background, have the right to free development, as well as the right to protect against the abuse of each type, including abuse by party organisations. I would ask the question to what extent the educators, their work, or the wrong work that is sanctioned by Article 14; and as far as their protection is concerned, I believe that this law should also protect teachers, teachers and school workers from all kinds of abuses. This law should also regulate religious teaching and civil education issues that have been prescribed by the government's regulation so far. As for the introduction of religious education and the teaching of civic education in primary and secondary schools, the Socialists remain in the view that the issue of religious science has been resolved by constitutional provisions. Confession of faith is a personal matter of every citizen. The introduction of religion into the teaching process is contrary to constitutional provisions. The church is separate from the state and has the freedom to organise religious life, including freedom to organise religious schools. I would like to comment on Articles 8 and 9 which are amended by the members of the 41st and 42nd existing law, which allow for changing places, times, ways of passing a qualification and admission exam for enrollment in schools. The minister, according to the law, had the right to change. It has been said that these exams will take place in primary schools. I think unnecessary spending of money and time on teaching teachers to carry out these exams, and subjectivity will be present. It is necessary to keep the old way until the reform of education is really implemented. The proposal to enroll in the first grade of high school based on the competition will result only in the removal of many schools and the disabling of the enrolment of many students. As for the proposed changes and additions relating to administrative and professional pedagogical supervision, I would say it's only about repacking people from this area. Inspection, as a confidential business, will be carried out by the municipality, or city administration. The minister obviously liked it better some time ago, so it goes back to the way it was. Less municipalities will not be able to professionally represent these controls due to lack of personnel, and inspectors, located at the municipal level, are losing their ability to exchange knowledge and experience. Article 15. The bill regulates the selection of a high school director. The school board shall elect a director on the basis of an opinion obtained from the teaching board. The decision of the school board shall be subject to the consent of the minister. The competition process ended with the minister's consent. If the minister does not give consent, in this case no one is considered to have been elected and the school board is calling for a new competition. Always, before this bill is passed, the minister gives the last word. It's all wrapped up in a new package, it's essentially the same. It is a good thing there is advice from parents in high schools, and especially since there are expanded activities in terms of donating and performing excursions. The secretaries of the school are projected to be professionals. However, many schools in small towns have no secretaries at all. According to the school funding rule, 20 departments are subject to a number of executives, and these are only two workers. The percentage of employees in the administration should be changed in relation to the number of perpetrators. What's the practical problem? I believe that the provisions of Article 33 of this Law should not enter into force in 2003 and 2004, because the proposed period does not allow the worker to be qualified in respect of the professional arrangement, in order to meet the conditions for the performance of the secretary's duties. I think that question should be resolved by the amendment. One who does not meet the conditions for the work of the secretary shall be assigned to other relevant tasks. That's not controversial. If there are no such jobs, he shall exercise the right of the employee whose work has ceased the need. A worker who gets a pension in a few years, who's been doing these jobs for 10, 20 and more years, can and should stay until he retires to work at school. Any other solution would mean that hundreds of workers will be fired, and the question is whether the reform that this government is constantly talking about is the layoff of workers and their absence of work. Finally, the Ministry of Education should focus more resources on the standard of educational workers, as dissatisfaction is reflected to this extent in the quality of teaching that everything will be in vain, including any changes and changes to the law on basic and secondary education.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20818	Thank you. The word has been made by the MPs Marina Stamenkovic, and the next one declared for the word is MP Petar Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20819	Dear People’s MPs, the Honorable Presidency, should not in particular stress the importance of enlightenment for everyone, including our society. In all developed but less developed countries, the education system always plays a special role. The countries that hold to their future, and the future is, you know, our children, all of their attention, they have to focus right on education. The 1992 elementary school law and the 1992 High School Act, which was completed in 1994 by provisions relating to enrolment in school, only the functioning of this law and its existence have caused very negative consequences for the past nine years. Poor centralised and education and education system organisations have resulted in total depression in education. The government set up school committees in the territory of the entire Republic, and the Ministry of Education of School Directors, which caused great dissatisfaction in collectives that were often faced with the will of these and such directors. When this is added to the continuing decline of the standards of educators, it is clear why frequent strikes occurred, the consequences of which were most suffered by students. Educational workers expect, in the context of comprehensive reforms, reforms and education. Why are they not put into the assembly procedure of the draft laws on amendments and additions to the law on primary and secondary school? When there was not enough conditions to pass a new reform law, couldn't these amendments and additions have been passed before? After all, it regulates management bodies, or some organisational issues, while the teaching program remains unchanged. What about so many expected and announced reforms in the education system? Comprehensive reforms in education, in addition to normative ones, should include financial ones. Instead of systematically solving the entire area of education, which includes material conditions, the government solves problems in part. These changes restore the responsibilities of municipalities in the functioning of schools as a result of the adoption of the Law on local self-government and democratisation of work in schools; religious teaching and civic education are being introduced. The DSS urges the adoption of a law that will cover fundamental changes in education, not only cosmetic changes concerning the organisation and jurisdiction of the Ministry and municipalities in primary and secondary schools. I would highlight very frequent phenomena in schools, which are the unconscious and unprofessional work of teachers, as well as coming to the workplace under the fact of alcohol; giving private lessons to teachers from teaching classes. Therefore, all this should be added to Article 14 of the amendment law and the additions of the law on elementary and secondary school, and sanctioned by the termination of the labour contract, rather than by disciplinary procedure. In schools there was legally tolerated corruption, and it is necessary that the ban on giving private classes be covered by amendments and additions to the law on elementary and secondary schools. I would especially like to point out that I am an MP from Vranj, or the centre of the Pcinj district. I would like to simply draw attention to the Ministry in one way, and of course I suppose the minister knows that the Pcinj County belongs to the municipalities of Presevo and Bujanovac. It is known what a political and structural situation is, as far as the Albanian population is concerned. In the Presevo municipality, the majority of the population are Albanians. In the Bujanovac municipality, the relationship is somewhat different and the number of Albanians is not so much higher than the Serb population. I would like to pay attention to the implementation of the education system programme and in general the education organisation provided for by this proposal on amendments and amendments to the law, given the concrete example of Presevo, where the absolute majority Albanian population is. The presence of humanitarian organisations is very pronounced, for which it is primarily humanitarian; those in their programmes, as I am informed, have school building, school repairs, computer procurement. So these humanitarian activities want the Albanian population to in some way, they say, integrate. I am expressing concern about the implementation of the programme, given that the municipalities of Presevo and Bujanovac are located in Serbia, that no other programmes have been promoted through their programmes, let's not compare the situation in Kosovo. That's all I wanted to say about the Phinehas County and the situation in it. The DSS parliamentary group will support the draft law in principle, and the amendments submitted will try to improve the bill in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20820	The word has a National MP, Petar Petrovic. The remaining time of the Soviet Parliament group is one minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20821	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, since the time is short, I can only say that the Assembly Group of the Soviets will not support the proposed amendments and additions to the law on primary and secondary schools, because we expected this expert government, with expert ministers, to give expert laws to reform primary and secondary education. This means - to improve the material position of educators, introduce modern education in schools, reduce the burden of students. Let me remind you, and you know it well, that in law you proposed that in high schools the number of classes increase from 30 to 31. As we know, every day students have six classes, and now one day they're going to have seven classes. I'm in specific circumstances, I have two students in eighth grade, since they were born on the same day; they have five classes each day, and one day they have six. Could the Ministry of Education give some proposal to reduce the burden of students, to keep teaching modernized and to prepare students in elementary school, and in high school to be able to be ready to be independent tomorrow, when they are employed, etc. So that's the proposal of the Soviet Party. For this reason, we are unable to support the proposed amendments and amendments to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20822	The word has a folk MP, Sima Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20823	Madam President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Civil Union of Serbia is a party that advocates as urgently as possible and as comprehensively as possible reforms in all segments of our society. However, this beyond any doubt, not only right but necessary pawnage, requires us to set the right rate of change in certain areas, as well as their speed. It is certainly one of such highly sensitive areas and areas of education. In front of us are the proposals of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Fundamentals and the Law on High Schools. The opening presentation of Mr. Minister and the very reasoning of the law shows that the motion has moved to change in this area without intending to change the whole concept of education at this time. As with the adoption of some other laws, the promoter wants to bring the first thing to normal and thus create conditions for the fundamental reform of the education system. The promoter, as Mr. Minister said, wants these proposals to achieve three goals, i.e. to achieve three "d": first, depoliticalisation, second, democratisation and third, decentralisation of education. The proposed solutions achieve the stated objectives. If we go from the provisions governing the management of schools, which are legally regulated and guaranteed to protect groups and individuals from all kinds of discrimination and physical punishment and insults of students, then the provisions governing administrative and professional pedagogical supervision, and when we compare all these provisions with previous legal solutions, my previous finding becomes even more obvious. During the debate so far, there are enough arguments that further support the justification for the adoption of the proposed laws, so I would not repeat them on this occasion. Ladies and gentlemen, the Civil Union of Serbia is participating in the government and, of course, supporting it. The GSS has its position on introducing religious teaching in the programmes of state schools stemming from the party's programming documents. By accepting participation in the coalition government, we were aware of the necessity of making compromises, not for the sake of survival in the government, but for the possibility of achieving the greatest part of our programme in such a government. For these very reasons, despite our different attitude, we have appreciated the solution to the problem of religious teaching, by having it introduced to schools, along with an alternative subject, as a university subject. It should be noted on this occasion that the religious communities were able, and they did so, to organise religious teaching before this Regulation, and the need for it could be met accordingly. This time we haven't heard anything about the effects of introducing religious teaching so far, I don't want to speculate on it. However, I cannot help but notice the phenomena that point to the tendency of the clericalization of our society, which, along with other "changes", has contributed to our accidents in the past ten years. So raising the level of obligation of religious teaching from the university to the level of electoral object is unacceptable for the GSS. In general, we support the proposal's intention to carry out substantial reforms in the field of education, through reform of programmes and institutions, and given that the proposed laws create preconditions for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20824	The word is made by MP Vitomir Plužarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20825	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the proposed laws in the field of primary and secondary education do not constitute any comprehensive reform laws announced by DOS authorities in the field of education, but rather an attempt to patch up existing laws gives the impression that reforms are being implemented in the field of education and that there are no essential reforms. The adoption of a law on basic and secondary education is so slow that the time of adoption of this law has been delayed for unknown reasons. In "Politica" since 6 June 2001, the text has been published that the ministry has done a draft. So the law was one year on base analysis, but that base analysis didn't work. There were also various promises from the Ministry to cut current programmes, but only in 2002 and 2003, respectively. The expert commissions are already working on this plan, and they should accept examples from Germany and Austria, which are reportedly the most developed in the area. Iexterior graduations are mentioned, some newspapers are planned to be introduced in the field of excursions. None of that today, and I don't believe it's gonna happen tomorrow. Buses still orbit Serbia, and children travel in the fog without preparation and know nothing about these destinations, except for their parents pulling money out of their pockets. It is likely that this law has no progressive goals but is returning to self-government, and that self-government is not responding to anyone except allegedly the ministry. In that debate of one year, there have been suspensions of work in this sphere on several occasions. Foreigners participated in the draft of this law and all the laws proposed by the minister; what these foreigners, imagine, respected gentlemen, are doing -- an absolute internal act in the field of education, which proves sovereignty, thanks to Minister Gashi Knezevic, foreigners do and determine the country's definitions. These foreigners are photographed by our schools, as humanitarian donors, print out tables that warn us that we are under a clean protectorate. According to the Serbian Radical Party's assessment, the proposed changes and additions to elementary and secondary school laws are an attempt to introduce self-management into schools through school boards. During the school's election, from the point of view of the Serbian Radical Party, such a solution is unacceptable, as the head of the school, whose founder is the government, can only appoint a minister of education and sports on the basis of a public competition, according to the local self-government assembly on whose territory the school is located. On election subjects, the position of the Serbian Radical Party is that electoral teaching can only be conducted through religious teaching that cannot have an alternative in ethical-humanistic subjects, as ethical-humanist content continues to be provided through all subjects taught by students. As far as religious teaching is concerned, our view is that the law must be precise. taxing to indicate what are traditional churches and religious communities that can teach religious teaching, preventing the possibility of influencing various sects, which are devastatingly affecting our youth (which we are also witnesses) and bringing them into schools through religion. It was now a case, that there were various suicides of similar activities in individual schools. In addition to the shortcomings already mentioned, the bill contains a lot of inaccuracies and inaccuracies. This is also evident in the number of amendments submitted by the government and all MPs in the republican parliament. This time I only list some: estimating the quality of school work, or at home; because institutions can not be the subject of evaluation but can only be those who directly perform educational and teaching work - teachers, professional associates, educators, etc. The last law was passed in 1992. Does this mean that the provisions of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, adopted by the United Nations General Assembly in 1948, have not been respected in our country so far? If anyone asks us what country? According to you in DOS, that country doesn't exist. You have dared to erase history, erase the state values that have been acquired by historical over time, and declare some new unions. Is this Union and this basic education law supposed to be violated under this correlation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20826	The word is Vukosav Tomašević, followed by Rajko Baralić.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20827	The respected presidency, respected colleagues, has already been said in the previous debate that the laws we are discussing will not bring about any more significant, fundamental changes in our education. That's absolutely true. That doesn't need to be proved in particular. This is about some changes in organizational nature, and whether they are good in relation to existing solutions will show the time ahead. It is indisputable that, for the fundamental reform of our schools and education systems, there should be a whole new law, different laws compared to existing laws, both basic laws in this area and a whole package of sublegal regulations. Why hasn't it been done in the past year and a half of this government, the question I'm not going to open for this speaker right now, and I'm not going to speak either partyly or politically. I came out to say something from my parents' position, because I think I have the right to do it as the father of two students who face a number of problems every day, some of the torments that follow our children's education, especially in these younger generations, so the founding fathers. I'm not going to say anything new, nothing spectacular, nothing that's unknown to both the professional and the general public, but I just feel the need and I take the right to say a few things on behalf of all parents and children, which is why, after all, the school and there are. First thing about school programs. School programs, especially in elementary school, are so complicated, so extensive that children get a terrible amount of unnecessary information, various teaching topics, various teaching units, which they don't need at all, not only at that age but later in life. All those kids get so confused, I don't say it's weird, there's no reason for your programs to stay so big. I think that very quickly it must be approached to review the needs of individual subjects, i.e. entire teaching areas, and then to sublime one, or to narrow down all the objects that remain in the course. The other thing is textbooks. Our school textbooks are written as if someone was trying to make them as complicated as possible, as hard as possible, as possible for children. That's not news either. It is known to both the professional and the general public. Here, I'll read a report from UNICEF and OECD experts on textbooks in Serbia. They say -- there are false facts in textbooks, outdated knowledge, wrong definitions of certain concepts, ideological and unilateral interpretation of historical events. Between one and two thirds of the tasks and questions (see - between one and two thirds of the tasks and questions) from the textbooks for students are completely pointless, and the dictionary is far above their possibilities. And indeed, who has children at school, who faces what children learn should not be a special expert to see how those books are written. These books are written in a complicated language, through definitions, through axioms, through something that really children don't understand. Let me make a mistake, and I apologize in advance if I'm wrong, but my impression is that someone is putting on a lot of trouble, a lot of effort, and a lot of effort to make your textbooks complicated, instead of being the other way around. The third thing I would point to is the position in which the educators are located. Educational workers have been placed in the position of officials. They're constantly writing some programs, they're burdened by a number of administrations, on the one hand. On the other hand, a huge amount of material, which they have to pass over to children over the year, puts them in a position that they have simply turned into a lecturer, i.e. someone who only gives new information and new amounts of knowledge to those children. They do not have time, for all of this, to gain insight into the knowledge of their students in a systematic pedagogical way. They have no time to work with them, to restore the material, to establish it, to develop logic with them. So they're just, in Serbian terms, running over what they're supposed to do. The consequence is that when you come to a parenting meeting you keep hearing from teachers (teachers) - you work home with your children. You're just wondering why I'm sending a kid to school if after that, four or five hours I have to sit at home, teach him what he was supposed to learn in the morning at school. Not to mention that a large number of citizens, parents, are people with average or basic education, who have no opportunities and have no knowledge at home to pass on to their children. So, these kids, if they don't get that knowledge at school, and they don't get it, they can't get it from their parents, and they're in advance convicted of failure at school. In order for all this stuff that I've been talking about to change, I don't think we should wait for new laws. This can also be done within the existing legal framework. So I appeal to both the Ministry gentlemen and all the educational authorities in this country - let the process begin immediately. Let us, from the fall of the new school year, at least partially adjust and change our school programs, write new textbooks, relieve the educational frame of these unnecessary, formal, civil duties, and then return to our schools, at least a little bit, for our children that joy of learning. We all know that children, especially in lower classes of schools, in modern education systems in the West, acquire knowledge through the game. On the other hand, our kids are so under the daanquette school press, and we all know that a huge percentage of our kids hate school and experience it as a nightmare and some commitment that doesn't matter. So let us return the joy of learning to those children, while at the same time giving teachers and all educators their joy of passing on knowledge to those children, not just running over what is being imposed on them through the present system of education.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20828	The People's Messenger Rajko Baralic has the word, and after him the Messenger of the people, Miroslav Christodulo.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20829	Mrs. Komic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, the debate on amendments and additions to the laws offered in a single search shows that there is insufficient agreement on some issues, which the government has translated into the form of a bill, a number of MPs point to this right and it will obviously be an interesting statement on some of these issues. The government, of course, takes down a part of its responsibility and that kind of responsibility is now in the hands of the MPs. I think the positions of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group have been known from the very beginning. Here I'm going to say a few things that are mentioned and that are important. I would also like to ask Mr. Minister, and I would like to ask you first of all to speak with elemental conditions, which means that I can speak without getting used to you, dear fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament. Mr. Secretary, you said yesterday that none of the directors were out of a job. I want to believe you, but I was asked, as a member of the Socialist Party of Serbia from Moravia County, to say here: Mr Dragan Nesovic, former director of the Economic School "Knjaz Milos" in Gornji Milanovac, was fired in September of your solution last year. I don't know what the reasons are, I'm just asking you to do this thing to the end; because I care very much about protecting a man and I want to believe that you didn't have a bad intention when you signed that decision. I owe it as an MP and acquaintance of this man to say so and to ask you to see how far that thing came and whether it had to be that way. I thank you for that. My colleagues here talked about the introduction of religion, and that was obviously an interesting topic. I'd say something about that, my colleagues said what the Socialist Party of Serbia's position was, and I'd add something about the conditions, about the environment, when the religious science was introduced in this academic way to our schools. It was done primarily as a political concession. He was not sincere enough at this point, I will remind you and the MPs know that, and I remind the public of Serbia: when His Holiness was necessary, the patriarch of Serbian Mr. Pavle, about a highly problematic and inhumane procedure with the former president of this country, Slobodan Milosevic, Mr. Djindjic, in an audience with His Holiness, provided an elementary agreement, and in this regard we received the credentials as a university subject. I remind all of you, gentlemen of the MPs, that two people from the Ministry of Education have offered their resignations for the occasion. It's Mrs. Turajlic and Mr. Vigor Majic. So, I'm talking about facts. It is not good that political points are collected on the issue of introducing religion into secondary and secondary schools. With that, there should be a clear and precise attitude. Someone here mentioned the Constitution, someone mentioned other elements, so I want to say the following thing: the uncontestable right of every citizen of this country, and therefore every student who has his adult parents, to plead as he wishes. Traditional churches in this country should encourage them to cultivate tolerance that is defined as ecumenism. If there is no such thing, it can happen that through religious teaching it creates impatience instead of tolerances and that by introducing these classes among people, it creates a gap instead of building bridges. It's a very delicate thing. I'm a first-rate Serb, and I don't mind anyone pleading to listen to religious instruction. As an Orthodox Serb, I would like to say that the Serbian Orthodox Church at this time is neither human, nor financial, nor in any other way ready to mate with any other confesions. As an Orthodox Serb, I would like to advocate helping the church mate, if that teaching really is introduced, in a way that meets the real need of that religious community. Now, we have the following situation: one number of traditional religious communities, and some others, receive enormous funding from abroad, and there is no elemental control in this country. We want this thing to be defined to the end and in a way that can explain to people who is funding whom and for what purpose. With regard to the school boards, I have tabled an amendment and I support, as well as the Socialist Party that I belong to, what three unions have advocated in our country. So concept five, three and one. One thing you said, that the collective would be respected, and that based on what was said, it would be given the opportunity to choose a director. You're obviously not ready to accept it today. It remains unclear, if that's principle 3+3+3, who's legitimate to choose three parents in the advice of the school and whether it's discretionary law, and we know how it works, of course. I know what's going to be a form, but I have an amendment to that, and I want to say that we're going to try to accept the principle that the unions of secondary and primary schools have advocated.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20830	The word has a minister in the government, Mr. Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20831	Teachers play a very important role in the selection of directors in two stages. The first stage is the choice by the teaching council. The school council's decision does not bind the school board's mandate, but it is a very strong indicator and I assume that in 80% of the cases, the decision of the school council and the school board will coincide. If it doesn't match, there's also a nice reading at the Ministry. So in no way will the collective be denied.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20832	The People's Messenger Miroslav Kristodulo has the word, and after that, the People's Messenger Dragan Colic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20833	Dear Members and Members of Parliament, the Social Democratic Party considers these amendments and additions to the law, at least in a few things, very good, and above all the introduction of a school board on parity basis 3+3+3 and banning physical punishment and insult of students' personality. It is commendable and the Social Democratic Party supports it. As for the most controversial issue raised here all the time, yesterday and today, about religious teaching, we believe that the Serbian Government's regulation of June or July last year introduced religion, if at all necessary, in a better way than it is now proposed here. So religious teaching and civic education were alternative subjects i.e. they were adversarial to the extent that students and parents could choose between four options, to choose one, the other, both or none of them. Now with this proposal to amend and supplement these two laws, it proposes to be a religious teaching and citizen training of electoral subjects, i.e. that there are only two choices, to take either one or the other. So this is raising religious education to one higher level, to a level of almost mandatory. We're against it, we think it's not good, and we want our amendments, which we've submitted, and which will be here before you today or tomorrow, to ease it up and return it to the level of the university subject. Otherwise, we would be against religious science and we would vote for the amendment of the Democratic Centre to end it all, but we still suggest that the religious science be academic. So we're against it. We believe that everyone has the right to attend religious studies and that the state, in principle, should assist religious teaching in churches. We think it's illegal for religious science to surrender within state schools. But if the government or those who support religion as an electoral object wants any reform compromise, then our amendments are the reform compromise. It's an amendment, first of all, to Article 10. He is the central amendment that defines vernacular as a university subject. Also, the problem is, in addition to the obligation of religion in these amendments to the law, equality of religious communities, so on. Great religious communities, i.e. traditional, and so on. small religious communities, such as one -- a Baptist church, have 200 million believers worldwide, 110 million in the United States, and the question is whether it can be said to be small. So we propose a series of amendments to delete from several members the words "traditional church" and to remain just the words "religious community", which is the only constitutional-legal category. The religious community is mentioned in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, article 41, and it is the only legal category. The traditional church doesn't really mean anything, because we still don't know who determines what a traditional church is and who guarantees that there will be no discrimination in the process of determining traditional churches. Third, it is an interesting argument by the Minister of Education that the religious debate has threatened to redistribute the country. We believe that if this topic is shared by this country, then the religious community should withdraw, so that the citizens do not share. I think it's an argument that was used in one wrong context: it's not an argument for, something against the introduction of religious science. It's a problematic finding, a question or a dilemma whether citizens in most people want that religion or not. That's a big question. If it were true that most of them wanted it, then there would be a danger that a series -- which began by declaring religious holidays for the state, celebrating the glory of the state authorities, for example, of the municipality and the introduction of religion into state schools -- would end with the introduction of state religion. There's that danger. In fact, we think that it really doesn't exist because, in fact, the minority supports religious science. We saw when students and their parents pleaded on the Serbian government's June or July regulations, while the agencies conducted surveys on whose results and called the minister of education, less than 50%, and in many areas much less than 50% of the students and their parents chose religious instruction. So practice has shown that citizens mostly do not want to be religious. The government and its legislative body want to force that religion to be introduced, while the Social Democratic Party proposes that religious teaching be organised only for those who want it. We from the Social Democratic Party want a choice, and we don't want an imposition; we want a secular history of religion, and we don't want an indoctrination of a new dogma; we want a science of faith, not a creation of a believer. Finally, since there are not enough quality teachers to teach about the history of religion, we believe that compulsory religious religion would be a substitute for preaching the national programme, which in the long run creates followers, i.e. the believers and lead to the conservation of society, and it prevents modernization. Serbia resolved its attitude towards the church back in the JIDz century, during the advanced government of Milan Pirocanc, which ruled from Serbia's independence to the Timoska Rebellion, when Serbia's modernisation process was halted. Therefore, do not let the process of reform be halted today by introducing compulsory religion. Support the amendment of the Social Democratic Party to make religious science a university subject in schools.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20834	The word has a folk MP Dragan Colic, followed by MP Milan Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20835	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we Serbian radicals believe that the education of all inhabitants is one of the essential interests of modern society, and the role of the state is crucial in the educational sphere. The State, above all, prescribes a level of compulsory education and prescribes conditions of education at optional levels, then curricula and software content within the basic system, and provides material and personnel conditions for the functioning of educational and educational institutions in the public sector. In conducting an education policy, it usually seeks to strike a balance between traditional flows and modern trends, national specificities and universal values. In the educational sphere, well thought-out state authority, and as far as these DOS authorities are concerned, that is not the case, seeks to end the affirmation of the principle of civil equality, quality teaching, efficient system, parallel moral education of a human personality and the care of a patriotic spirit. The preparation of children for the most successful primary education is already achieved in preschool education institutions. Basic education is sanctioned as mandatory and should contain a complete general education profile, which can be achieved through adulthood, when the educational component is also very prominent. Due to the chaos created in the economic sphere, thanks to DOS-mania, compulsory and any other schooling will become increasingly difficult. Does the introduction of large duties, taxation of school supplies, make schooling easier or harder? School bags, notebooks, exercises, and even pencils are ten times more expensive than before the previous period, which is the period until 5 October. Training for founding is not only not free, but it has burdened the family's budget to the extent that many sacrifice basic life supplies, for one month they order the purchase of bread, milk, for buying those things that children need and represent a fundamental need. How much are the shoes? There were 20 marks, and today there were 150 marks. These bill proposals lack the possibility that students in primary and secondary schools can use liquids and benefits of the XXI century: tables, sponges, chalk, pen. The Minister of Sports will also introduce recreational teaching in physical education - mandatory playing football with the most famous European brand "sniffer". Speaking of Europe, which is your role model and whose habits you absorb and take as a rule of conduct, our children will still have something in abundance, thanks to the mafia in Serbia. They'll have enough drugs at low prices, thanks to the dealers, and if they're in good relations with them. More and more in schools there are fights and even fights where the actors were also teachers. Unfortunately, there were murders in some schoolyards. The most important spiritual and moral values have been neglected, madness has been chosen as a rule of conduct, modeled in Europe, instead of children learning to love their country from early childhood schools, to develop a patriotic spirit. How can our children acquire these moral values, when you dos-mania mock every form of loyalty and patriotism, every form of loyalty to Serbian tradition, history, religion and culture. Your mouth is full of Europe. It's a model, a rule of conduct, and Europe looms to find itself. The proposals for a law on secondary and primary school will change nothing in the field of education, except creating an illusion that the reforms that you advocate are under way. We, the Serbian radicals, are trying to point out all the lacks of bad bill proposals, and often our voice is the cry for false democracy in the desert. I have to be honest and point out something to which you will still be remembered and noticed by you: you will be remembered as the ugliest episode in the history of the Serbian people.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20836	The word is made by MP Milan Radulovic, and then by MP Zoran Angelkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20837	Dear People's MPs, the exact title of this file, which we are considering on the second day, is the Bill of Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Primary School, i.e. on High School. So, some kind of, you'd say, metazacone, law law, that should once be passed. A lot has been said about the content of the proposed amendments to the law, but it has also been said in general to the oval system in Serbia, which the law is trying to regulate. Both Mr. Minister and a lot of MPs in the debate have expressed expectations that both these changes, and the upcoming general reforms, both platforms and strategies for changing the education system in Serbia will deliver good results. However, rightly so, whether we like it or not, a warning bell has been pressed in these two days in the congregation. We have heard from Mr. Minister and the MPs that this society is not capable - it is not materially capable, it is technically not capable, and even human beings are not qualified - to give the young generation basic literacy. The school is in no condition to computerize. And the education system that is unable to provide what is the modern literacy of this era is in a very serious crisis. He barely works. Our education system, we hear and that, is unable to provide functional literacy to the young generation. Functional literacy would mean that students at school are qualified for the professions needed and sought on the labour market, for occupations that will allow them to join production and management processes in society tomorrow. In one word, the situation is really dramatic. We have a school where a lot of bugs and a little learning are taught, we have a school where on one side is a teacher, on the other side is a student, and between them is an oversized and complex program. Our teaching process goes about like this: this is me, a teacher; you're a student; this is a program that I'm going to pour into your head, regardless of whether you're going to learn to develop your intelligence or you're going to retarded, whether you're going to expand your perspectives, whether it's appropriate for you or whether it's going to be useful to you tomorrow or not. So, problems are serious and it's not about a single ministry and a single government. It's about a country. The education system is the most extensive and widest system because it involves not only students and teachers but also parents. Indirectly it includes all the structures of society because tomorrow both production and management processes will depend on what our students learn in school, which we will provide them with and what knowledge. I think education, not economics, is still the base of one state and one society, and that reform of the education system is the foundation and only a healthy country from which any other reforms can be implemented. Of course, I said this couldn't be done by one government and one ministry, but it was one ministry that tried to get the current system - which only works by momentum, the system that is calling for more material resources and new ideas to be poured into it - in a certain way still stabilising, by removing some obvious impediments in its trom, inert functioning. These delays were caused by a way of managing. The ministry has decided to include the local community and parents in the management and share responsibility for the school system with the widest circle of interested people, which is a smart solution. The second amendment that has been proposed here is to strengthen the inspection supervision of schools, to have inspection supervision be what it used to be: to be a advisory process in which teachers, almost daily, will be able to get new knowledge and follow new forms of teaching. However, there are two major changes in these proposals. Those two shifts, I mean, they deserve our attention. First, the Ministry of Education decided to introduce professional titles into the educational profession. Since the Second World War of Professional Calls, there has been no, there has been a certain type of edifice; all teachers have been equal, without differences in abilities and knowledge, at will and desire to participate in the educational process. The introduction of the call is important not only because it will encourage teachers to progress, but also because it suggests a simple idea: the reform of the education system starts with an educational frame. Therefore, the teacher’s tub must be reformed first. Teachers must be able to systematically acquire new knowledge, to be part of the educational process, to be together with students involved in learning. The students will learn what teachers teach them, but teachers will be able - which, I think, is quite normal - to learn daily how knowledge is transmitted, to experiment, to seek the best methods, to deal with didactics, methods, to organize visual lectures; in short, to compare with students, and they learn. This will be enough to encourage teachers to begin with. I don't know what the state of schools is, but certainly this member of the law is a challenge. The challenge will likely be answered by the Ministry by organising, more than ever, various forms of professional teacher training. The second important addition that this law has passed is indeed something that deserves full attention and support. This addition of the law represents, without much exaggeration, one brave but expected step. The Ministry of Education - as I understood this text - decided to introduce moral education into our schools. We now have in schools and physical and musical education, and technical and visual education. Two new electoral items are now being introduced: a practical, moral education is being introduced in our schools. Let us leave aside the question of how important it is to introduce electoral subjects in general; leave some future law and future school practice to introduce as many electoral items as possible and to better schedule them so that students can benefit from them as much as possible. Attention should be paid to the question: whether a new subject called moral education is needed today in Serbia's education system. I think it would be too much to discuss. Moral education is absolutely necessary to our school system. It is necessary because we are a society that is morally ruined (for many different reasons), because we are a society that has been trying to morally reintegrate and rebuild, because we are a society that has not had any educational process in both schools and education system for almost 50 years, or had a completely erroneous educational process. The Ministry of Education predicts that moral education is a civil ethics and religious teaching (eight or nine different religious classes) and that it is electoral subjects; therefore, the basis of the moral education of our students will be, on the one hand, civil ethics, and on the other hand it will be religion, or church. And the churches are, no matter what anyone thinks, autothons are creators, carriers and guardians of culture and morality. All traditional churches in Europe are like this; esteeming this role, therefore, the moral, cultural and spiritual capacities of religious communities, all European countries have religious backgrounds embedded in their school systems. They do not have Albania, Macedonia, Slovenia and part of France. Everyone else, gentlemen, they do. It is interesting that now suddenly the left hand belongs to the position and the left hand that belongs to the opposition finds a common language in challenging religion as a source of moral education and way of transferring culture. Do they think, and we have heard of it, that religion divides people? The way religious communities have agreed on their religious teaching programmes is best said that there is harmony between all religious communities. There is, though, something else. There are prejudices in us that religion is something to dig (that religion is something, sir, that digs) trenches among people; that religion, as one smart man from your group said, divides people into partisans and Chetniks; or, as one lady says today, there are so-called. Godly and so-called non-religious children. So, completely incomprehensible things a man here can hear about a simple subject. There's no reason that a religious man doesn't get his status as the Ministry predicted. There's no fear that religious science will share children. The children have no prejudice, and the prejudices share us. The children have enormous curiosity. If we don't encourage children to be curious about our faiths and other religions, other cultures, if we don't care about it, if we don't allow it to appear, the new generations will be the same as we are: and they will dig into prejudice, into popular delusions, and they will really start to share. Fortunately, children are much more open, much more curious, and they will be able to use one and the other subject -- and civic ethics and religious science -- in the best possible way. Such education will likely raise generations that will be able in an authentic way to reform all other systems in Serbia. I'm sorry that I had to talk a little bit intermittently about this subject. It seems to me that it would be good for us to really understand each other and not speak for the children, not to say that religion divides children, but to admit to ourselves that we have ideological prejudice towards religion, that we have popular delusions and that we do not have enough communication with each other. Such communication is still true among religious communities. From religious communities, this fruitful communication or curiosity will be incorporated into our educational system.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20838	The word is by MP Zoran Angelkovic, followed by MP Jakob Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20839	Ladies and gentlemen, the SPS believes that education reforms are necessary and necessary. Reforms that benefit students, in favour of students, for the benefit of Serbian citizens, rather than reforms that are being implemented just to explain that this government is taking a reform course and implementing some new law. Amendments and additions to these laws are actually quasireforms, and more specifically they only involve legalising something that has been done in the previous year by regulations. Amendments and additions are in fact the realisation and embedding of regulations in these draft laws. One of these regulations is the introduction of religion into schools. At what time and when was religious education introduced to schools? It was introduced right at the moment of the current SPC protests following the anti-constitutional extradition of Serbian citizens to The Hague tribunal , and when it was necessary to calm down the SPC, which reacted that in a state that had Dusan's code could not work in this way, then religious school was introduced. [[elevator in the O.R.]] It's not a dispute here whether or not religious science should be studied, it's where it's supposed to be studied. He's not here slow about it. The SPS believes the Serbian government should provide funds and assistance to religious communities to study religious science. We are for this and we consider it necessary and necessary; the state has the means and the ability to predict the appropriate means to study religious teaching in religious facilities. This involves financial resources, which means training and financial means for professional training of people and professors who will do these jobs. Of course, religious teaching cannot be studied in schools. When religious education is studied in schools, we act the opposite, in the Constitution, and in Serbia the state is separated from the church. For these reasons, we believe that religious teaching should not be provided for in the law itself, but should be organised and implemented in religious facilities, and the state should provide financial resources for the realization of religious teaching. The second question, how does the law relate to education in Kosovo and Metohija. More specifically, whether according to the government programme of the Republic of Serbia, according to the Serbian Parliament programme of course, classes in schools in Kosovo and Metohija will be studied in Serbian or not. This team, before we heard the various statements made by Mrs. Turajlic in recent days or weeks, about who will be appointed directors of schools in Kosovo, under which programme will organise classes in Serbian language in these schools in Kosovo and Metohija. Who will finance this educational process? This is important because education workers in Kosovo and Metohija were one of the most responsible who remained 120,000 Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. To remind, in an agreement or more specifically, in a document adopted by the Serbian government last July, somewhere in mid-July, it was envisaged that Kosovo and Metohija will work under a programme of the Republic of Serbia in educational institutions with Serbian teaching, so the government of the Republic of Serbia will set up school directors in fact and will fund an education programme for Serbian teaching in Kosovo and Metohija. Later, in November of the month, by signing a new agreement, Covic -- the Hekerup -- gave up on it in fact. What is now true, are the exact statements, whether the agreement is true or will surrender to the current government of Kosovo, UNMIK or some third in Kosovo and Metohija. I think it is important that we know here today when this law takes effect on whom it applies and what the position of Kosovo and Metohija teaching will be, professors and students; of course, I always talk about Serbian teaching rather than continuing in other languages or in Albanian. A third question and only a few sentences, which is about the appointment and appointment of the school director. This is about a revolutionary thing that is now reformally assured that the Government of the Republic of Serbia will no longer appoint directors, but will set up school committees. The difference is this: in the current law, the school committees proposed and gave opinions on the appointment of directors, and the minister was setting up, and now it turns out that school committees are appointed by the director, and the minister gives consent. It's just, can a school director be appointed without consent? Obviously he can't. If it cannot be set without consent, it means that consent means the announcement of that director, which means that the only minister is asked who will be in the final instance of the school director. It actually means that no big shift has been made to ensure that there, in that primary or secondary school, this school board is dominant and determines who will be the director in that environment. I think it is necessary for this school board to be dominant and to decide who will be the head of the school in that environment, not the minister of education, whether it be through appointment or through consent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20840	The Minister of Education, Mr. Gašo Knezevic, called for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20841	Only metrically, who has a domicile role in relation to the minister - the school board, is fully clear through the provisions on v.d. Director. If consent is denied, V.D. The director shall be appointed by the school board and shall be clearly made aware of who has the dominant role.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20842	The word is from the MP James Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20843	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Ministers, given that the main objection here was whether these laws are reformative and how fast reforms are taking place in the field of education, I will first look back on these remarks. So if we want to talk about the speed of reforms in education, we must first remind ourselves of what we have found and how much time this Ministry of Reform has had available. The state of education, to remind you or perhaps not to remind you specifically, is the consequence of the overall state of society; we all know that this situation was more than bad, and this ministry began in February 2001. The results of the Ministry of Education's activities were presented in the "White Book" at a January conference at the "Sava Center". There is a full strategy for education reform, only a year after the ministry's work. There is a clear vision of reform of the education system. The pace of the reforms will be in line with the speed of meeting the relevant preconditions. I am saying this because it is known that serious and significant reforms last for years and they go through several phases: making, agreeing, preparing, education of all educational process players, piloting, finishing, implementation in waves, monitoring and continuing coordination. So for the first results to be seen, it is necessary to pass the years, specifically for the first generation to pass at least one educational cycle in such a reformed education system. So with reform you should go carefully, well measure every move, in order to avoid any weaknesses, both per generation that will be a pilot in the new education system and for society in general. In order to achieve a comprehensive reform of the education system, based on the assessments and proposals of international reports on the situation in the education system in Serbia, which were created by UNICEF, OECD and World Bank in late 2000 and January 2001, appropriate conditions for decentralisation and democratisation must be met. Under this, the transfer of authority from the state to local self-government and the participation of stakeholders in the decision-making process is meant. The quality of education must be improved in terms of establishing a system for quality assessment and evaluation, improving teacher education, establishing a system for continuous vocational education and developing teaching staff and modernising plans, programmes and textbooks. And thirdly, improving education infrastructure and equipping educational institutions. First of all, it is meant to train educational staff, to form new institutions and bodies that will be in the service of the education system and to provide support, to encourage the development of schools at local level, to equip school facilities with modern teaching technology and to raise the management information system. It must also ensure coordination between the education sector and the economic sector, so that education can meet economic and social needs. In order for this to be realised, material support for teaching staff must also be created, so that there is a motive for imaginary reforms to be implemented. The proposed law should meet some of the requirements mentioned. Our education system is largely centralised, so in the first phase it is necessary to decentralisation and democratisation. Decentralisation consists, above all, of the transfer of competence in the field of primary and secondary education to local self-government, resulting from the adoption of a new Law on Local Self-Government. In addition, the school boards themselves are reviewing competitions for the selection of directors and making their choice, and as you know, so far the minister has appointed directors. Democracy is seen as part of the school board because it is such that it is represented by all stakeholders: local self-government, collective representatives and representatives of parents. And of course, here was the most dispute over the composition of the school board. I stand on the view that the proposed 3+3+3 ratio in the current situation is the most favourable, because here, practically, all interested parties are participating in the same relationship. On the one hand, local self-government, which has so far had huge obligations, especially in investment maintenance and coverage of material costs, and had virtually no right; certainly, parents, whose children are users of school services; and finally a collective, whose employees live for school and school. Certainly, the involvement of local self-government in governance bodies is in fact coordinated by the relationship between obligations -- which local self-government has, as I said, in investment and ongoing maintenance -- and the right to participate in school management. I also agree with those who insist on increasing, or more participating the number of teachers from the collective itself. But I really want to remind you that we still live in a society where everything is politicized, including schools themselves. So, in order to increase the number of teachers on the school board, there must be depoliticalisation and with the degree of attainment of depolitisation, there will be a gradual and increased participation of the staff themselves within the school board. I just want to tell you that school wasn't politicized because teachers, or teachers wanted it, but I think it was one of the biggest scams of the previous regime, because it's just like when you let a kid play a toy and forget it's hungry. So we've all been in politics. It's just that "breathed bone" that we've been talking about, and that's how we wanted to forget about all the problems, the misery, the misery, the misery that the previous regime brought us into. Since the reform of education is being implemented gradually, in principle "step by step", the existing provisions of the laws relating to the professional training of teachers and co-workers are being amended. In the course of the training can be acquired, as has already been said many times, the following titles: pedagogical advisor, mentor, instructor and senior pedagogical advisor. Clearly, the goal is to stimulate the continuous professional training of teachers through the difference in salary coefficients. The next paper is a limited number of directors' mandates, which is also aimed at reducing the consequences of the school's absence, i.e. to help overcome the continuity of the teaching work. The paper is also that the proposed changes and additions are separated by administrative and expert pedagogical supervision, again with a clear goal, to increase professional control in each segment of the school's work, as well as efficiency and quality and control. The proposed law allows the Director to impose sanctions until disfellowshipping, according to teachers who do not comply with the provisions of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and Rights of the Child, as well as Article 13. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. To remind you, these provisions refer to the incentive of racial, religious and linguistic discrimination, as well as to neglect or inciting all forms of abuse. So, physical, mental, sexual, or drug use. Finally, it should be mentioned that the proposed laws are analyzed by the regulation and are legally regulated by the organisation and achievement of religious teaching and alternative subject matter. Speaking of religious teaching, there are a lot of conflicting opinions here, I just want to remind you that our goal is to join the European Union. If you have looked at the legal regulation of religious teaching in the European Union, you will see clearly that all the members of the European Union in their schools have introduced religion as an object. We can only argue about which model we apply, because some countries apply a model - a mandatory object, and others - an electoral object. However, if the position of a number of international institutions is that the introduction of religion encourages and helps the exercise of human rights and freedoms, and you know that these rights and freedoms are particularly insisted on, then simply, no matter what our party programs say, we need to adapt and realize that we need to respect some rules of play in those institutions whose component we want to be. Finally, I would like to remind you that, in parallel with the amendments and additions to the existing basic and secondary education laws, the technical equipment process is taking place, for the time being, thanks to the funding from the donations; hopefully later this will be the obligation of the state, in line with the level of development of domestic economy. It is important to stress that donations are made mainly through assistance and co-operation with NGOs, and I believe that their role in reforming the education system will continue to be significant. In view of the situation found in education and time at the disposal of the Ministry of Education and Sports, I believe so the proposed amendments and additions of these two laws in line with the real state, that for me, as well as for the MPs of the DS, are acceptable and we will certainly vote for them. I would like to answer, since there was also a remark that some professors and teachers manipulated children and brought students to protests, I can tell you that the truth is, in fact, that the students went out to protest and that the teachers followed their students. It's not manipulation because professors are the place where their students are children.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20844	- By the book? The chairman of the SPS parliamentary group, MP Zarko Obradovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20845	My fellow Members, I'm advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 98 and Article 100. I must say that a fellow MP, a previous speaker, has brought himself into a contradiction. Turns out, in the past, the state has urged educational workers to go out on the street and manifest their own personal and political dissatisfaction. Yesterday I said the situation was complicated, but the fact is that some teachers wanted to show their political attitudes on the street and that's why they performed the students. But to say that the state called, and on the other hand to give the professors freedom to do so, justifying that, it's absolutely not working with each other. Things should be called real names, said what was. The situation was very difficult...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20846	Mr. Obradic, you have not received the right replica, but you have the word for breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20847	The material situation of educators also, but also political dissatisfaction was expressed by performing students into the streets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20848	The word has been given by MP Goran Cvetanovic, and the next registered speaker is MP Dragisa Djokovic. The remaining time of the SRS parliamentary group is four and a half minutes, and DOS parliamentary groups -- the Democratic Party of Serbia is three and a half minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20849	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, apparently since the announced reforms, both in education and in health care, there is nothing, because if there were on the agenda, there would not be only changes and additions to the law on primary and secondary schools. Therefore, it is necessary to revitalise educational institutions because it is the only condition for children to focus on positive values, because education and raising children and youth are the most important periods of personality formation. It is necessary to provide funds, primarily for the construction and reconstruction of primary and secondary schools, equipment and depreciation, both primary and secondary schools. In Leskovac there are about 120 primary and secondary education facilities, and most of the facilities are in poor shape. One time period I worked as a Republic sanitary inspector, in charge of healthcare facilities and primary and secondary education facilities. Indeed, the schools in Leskovac are in very poor shape, but unfortunately when the prime minister comes to visit and let's say he promises to go to the Wooden High School to give them a computer, and here it has been two months since, there's nothing since the promise. I don't know if the computer still hasn't made it to Woodward High School because a high school student, whose high school I was a student, tried one show in front of the prime minister to show his work and character, so maybe that didn't appeal to the prime minister. It is obvious that the wooded self-government, or local self-government that does not work, should take the example of Zemun, when Serbian radicals were in power and when absolutely all schools, on the whole territory of Zemun, were restored in every respect. Secondly, it is necessary in every respect to the professional training of teachers, co-workers and school teachers. The SRS advocates that primary and secondary education must be free of charge. Schools would only be paid in private schools. The rationalization of the school network is necessary. School programs are too extensive, with extra unnecessary information. Therefore, the SRS proposes a revision of the programme and their improvement. Many textbooks and literature do not follow the needs of teaching. The person employed in the education must own alongside professional and adequate teaching equipment, as well as moral qualities. Unfortunately, the new DOS government does not follow these trends, because we have an example that a criminal complaint against the director of the special school "Vule Antić", Verice Stefanovic, who is suspected that by falsifying documentation has damaged the Ministry of Education for 360,000 dinars. She even invented a school logo and received 80,000 dinars on that basis. By the way, Verica Stefanovic is a member of the Democratic Party. The standard of educators, teachers, teachers and teachers must be improved and brought into line with the material needs of the family of educators. Political organisation should not be allowed in schools, as well as in all state institutions. When it comes to the religious teaching programme, it is necessary to specify which religious communities have the right to a religious teaching programme, in order to prevent sects from acting negatively on our children and youth through religious teaching. School cannot, as an institution, be the subject of grading, but it can only be teachers, teachers, teachers and other educators. In the end, the school board is also a relic of the past, which brings us back to the self-management period. In Article 24. Proposal for a law on elementary school i.e. Article 19. The proposal for a high school law, says the school board has 9 members, a third are representatives of local self-government, i.e. the Ministry of Education for High Schools, a third are members of the teaching council and a third are members of the parent council. It is obvious that the minister of education and sports only wants the benefits of the minister and the responsibility to move towards others.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20850	The word has a folk MP, Dragisa Djokovic, and the next one is Djura Lazic, which remains for three and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20851	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, while we are discussing these laws that are very important to every society, there is the constant concern and concern of our people, the Serbian people and the rest of the non-Albanian people in Kosovo and Metohija, whether these laws will apply in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija for those who want to be there. I would point out that I have insisted on all the meetings of the Committee on Education, although I am not a member, then the Committee on International Relations, as well as others, where we presented the facts, and me and other colleagues. When Mr. Minister honours the previous government and the previous regime that they have not done much in the matter of education in Kosovo and Metohija, I must say that I do not belong to that previous regime and the previous government. What is new -- the involvement of the Serbian government has done a lot in this matter, that the Serbian education system in the Kosovo and Metohija continue to apply, as well as to remain, the university has been returned, rectorate and several universities, but in the course of this school 2002-2003, it will return, if God so, to the rest, at least that was the plan and decision of the Serbian government. We have to keep going that way. But once again, I would remind this congregation and all of you, dear friends, not to use any terms that do not exist. There is no UNMIK school in Kosovo and Metohija, because it is very well written. They neither teach in those schools nor go to school. There is an Albanian school, which wants to be dominant, as well as everything. If we want to create an Albanian state and a five-metre wall, which the president of the Nebojsa Covic Co-ordination Body mentioned, we will best help them if we abolish Serbian educational laws for those who want to respect them; it means, if we prevent them from schooling according to their laws, then we will help the Shiptars to ethnically cleanse Kosovo. I hope that no one in this country, no matter what orientations it is, is the goal and is not the desire. It's just not good when assistants or deputy ministers come down and confuse educators. The education system is not only educational workers, but it is primarily students and their parents. If the schooling system for Serbs and others who want to be so is not the same in Kosovo and Metohija as in Piroth, Sombor or Belgrade, we will have one disaster, because under the Shiptar laws, Serbs do not want to school. On the other hand, Serbs do not claim at any time that Albanians, i.e. Shiptars, impose their style of education, their programmes, their plans. Simply, let them school as they think, and let the folk heroes be Skenderbeg, Adam Yasari and others, but the Serbs will learn as they learn in other parts of Serbia, not only in Kosovo and Metohija. So, the purpose of this address is to remind again and to warn that there is an Albanian education, and in this way, where there was a source of instability, accidents, children, and here we are all the most sensitive, there is an exorcism of Serbs and other non-Albanian communities from Kosovo and Metohija, not to repeat it, but that the Serbian education system applies to those who want to do so in the area as well.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20852	The word has the People's MP Đura Lazic, and the next one registered for the word is MP Branko Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20853	I will not talk about what previous colleagues have said, about some key segments of this bill, because I know that education as an area is very important in society and that from the law in education, from the engagement of educators and how the future of our country depends, because in their hands is the fate of our children and our future. Some provisions of the law can be supported, but the fact is that only the order has been amended in certain procedures. About the first member and some other members, I will not stick around, because I will talk about it when the amendments are discussed, but I will remain in one segment, a segment of education in Kosovo and Metohija. This exhibition encouraged me to think of the minister, or one of his parish statements, with the mention of the Kumanovo Agreement, that we allegedly left the teachers to defend Kosovo and Metohija with this agreement and Resolution, which is not true. The minister tried to ignore the essence of the issue of Serbian education in Kosovo and Metohija. The fact is that according to Resolution 1244, education and health care remain in the Republic of Serbia system and there are no talks, but the government of the Republic of Serbia and the country's leadership, in violation of the resolution and declaration of this home, which were adopted unanimously, on the non-recognition of the constitutional frameworks of Hans Hekerup, have abused the Serbian people by urging them to go to the elections on November 17th and thus has been verified by the Cypriot government in Kosovo. The Cypriot government's foundations in Kosovo were laid. Now we're in a very serious and difficult situation. Who knows about these relationships and the ingenuities that exist there right now, knows what it's about. There, the government of Kosovo, through the Ministry, is forging programmes, so-called UNMIK programs. However, according to counterpart Djokovic, it is not about UNMIK's programmes at all, it is about Shiptar's programmes. These programmes, these testimonies and diplomas that Serbian children will receive in Kosovo and Metohija will be UNMIK's, and we have had the opportunity to see examples of these testimonies with the Kosovo map, slightly wider, where there is no "s" from Serbia and that diploma, these testimonies will have to be certified later in Serbia's own state. No Serb will, under these conditions, let a child go to school and get such testimony, such a degree. We were able to protect and be obliged as a state, as a government, by calling precisely for Security Council Resolution, to defend the unique system of education, education and health, not to separate it and to ensure the functioning of a single education system in Kosovo and Metohija. Unfortunately, we haven't done this vigorously enough, and now there are problems. To make the matter even more serious and worse, Serbia's Turajlic told the directors in Mitrovica, and we also know confidently in Šilov, Kosovo Pomoravlje, that from September 1st they should count on being part of UNMIK's education. The statement greatly irritated and embittered educational workers and parents, so I would ask the government, the minister and the people of the ministry to do their utmost to fight consistently for the respect of Resolution 1244 and the application of a single programme of education in Kosovo and Metohija, to protect that people and those children in the Serbian educational programme.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20854	The word is made by MP Branko Pavlovic. He's not there. The word has the People's MP Dimitria Jovanovic, and the next one declared for the word is MP Hranislav Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20855	The Honorable Presidency, MPs, guests, citizens of Serbia, respected ministers, members of the ministry, in a town I came from just over two months ago, a tragic event, unrecorded in judicial annals. The mother killed her only son, a young intellectual, out of a gun. The moment she could no longer see her child's torment, a drug addict, unable to help him, she decided to take this stupid step. This is a sad epilogue for the last 10 years and the consequences of being left by a mindless society. The result of a time when young people were exposed to negative influences without social concern and the protection of those who were obliged to do so. That is why school reform is necessary, and it is therefore necessary to bring new legal solutions and change the attitude towards education. It is obvious that the Ministry of Education and Sport's intention to move towards modern law, adapted to modern movements, fulfil constitutional obligations, lead to necessary decentralisation, depoliticalisation, democratisation and compliance with international conventions. The introduction of parents' advice in high school and the selection of their representatives on school boards, as well as the participation of students alongside representatives of educational workers and local self-government, create the necessary conditions for faster and clearer communication and removing problems from the previous period. The very way of choosing the school board is a direct and clear vision of decentralisation and the possibility of better quality committee work. Verification of the mandate of members of the school boards in local self-government significantly speeds up processes and simplifies the procedure that has been very long and unjustly complicated so far. The same applies to the selection of school directors. In addition to the separation of administrative and professional pedagogical supervision, the institution of quality, control of the level of work of the teaching staff, which practically ceased to exist in the previous period, will surely return. This will certainly significantly improve the quality of teaching and give incentives to educators to work, both on personal training and on raising the quality of teaching. Society in the shortest time must create such material conditions for educational workers that they can live normally from working in educational institutions, to meet their material needs, to devote their time to perfecting and raising the quality of work. These are just some things that the new law points to and makes suggestions for their solutions. However, all this other stuff that I've prepared here has already been mentioned in the discussion. The controversy is about religious teaching. I believe that by introducing religious education and civil education, we are given the opportunity to return to young people what was taken from them decades ago. The possibility of getting acquainted at school with moral and ethical principles and instilling in them the positive tendencies of human civilization will certainly affect the creation of a healthier population. Religious teaching is a significant segment in schools and educational communities of all modern Europe. Religious teaching has not bypassed nearly any countries of the European Union and Western Europe. It's only a question of what kind of model she's doing. In some countries it is a mandatory subject. Another model is represented in the largest number of European countries - along with certain variations, religious teaching is mandatory, but if a parent or student does not want it, he can replace himself with another subject - ethics or morals - which is necessary for some in this room. The situation is similar in most transition countries. Religious teaching in Romania and the Republika Srpska is a mandatory subject, while in most other countries it is optional, most often of all a confiscational content. The statement against the introduction of religious teaching often includes an argument in the form of an example of traditionally secular France, in which religious teaching is not part of the national curricula, which is an exception in Europe. However, when considering the case, it should be borne in mind that in elementary schools one day in a week the law provides for freedom, in order to meet religious needs. In high schools, however, there is a specific form of religious teaching: priests in school give religious lessons to students who want it when they want it. I believe that religious education should be introduced into schools and that it will certainly correct what the rule of one regime has done in the last five or six decades. I think it will certainly improve quality and affect the morality and ethics of generations to come.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20856	The word is made by MP Zarko Obradovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20857	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 100: "The speaker can only speak of a matter that is on the agenda." You know, we've heard a lot in this National Assembly over the past year and a half, all kinds of grades, estimates, a lot of things, but what I've heard from my fellow MPs now -- that a personal and family tragedy is used for political purposes to assess previous times or to support the bill that the Assembly is discussing today -- it's really below the level of dignity and the Assembly and the presentation of MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20858	The word has been given by the People's MP, Hranislav Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20859	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, since the principle debate has brought together the law on elementary school and the law on high school, I will focus my presentation on amendments and additions to the elementary school law. I can freely say that the announcement of the founding school law made everyone more expecting, including schools and educational workers in Serbia. In the case of reasons and the reasons for the law being passed for the first time, unlike the laws previously passed in this assembly, you did not criticise the previous law that was passed in 1992. This is confirmed for the reasons you gave in the explanation - the amendment of the law does not change the concept of primary education, but it is done to amend and supplement to decentralisation the work of the school. I'm not very confident that the proposed changes will bring about some major decentralisation, only local self-government, i.e. The municipality of municipalities choose the boards of directors, of nine, and the other members or most of the members - schools and advice of parents. The selection of directors will not be greatly affected by municipalities, as the minister does not oblige any member of the law to give consent to the director proposed by the school board. Given how you've been putting the principal's office since you came to power -- it's happened that the school's employees were pleading for the future director, there were several candidates, one got four votes, one 50 votes, and the minister of education appointed a director who received four votes -- I don't believe there will be any changes in this part too. Another significant change that has been proposed is the introduction of religious education and civic education into schools. We at the SPS have nothing against religious teaching, but we're in favour of a different solution. First, you solved this issue in the previous period by the Government Regulation, and our view is that it must be settled by law, in the best way for the citizens of Serbia. Secondly, a longer period should be provided for creating conditions for introducing religion into schools. I don't think we have enough personnel to do it professionally right now, and the churches don't have the right places to do it in churches, which is our attitude. The Ministry of Faith needs to provide funds to provide space for the construction of teaching in its rooms, which would be more practical and efficient to study this subject and which, with the help of children, we could infuse and embellish church spaces. In addition to these changes in the law, there were no others, although there are many problems in the schooling work that could have been better seen to resolve this law. In smaller and rural areas, in underdeveloped municipalities, the minimum conditions for children's education are, unlike the city, where there are all conditions for normal schooling. The rural school buildings are down, many personnel, although unemployed, will not work in schools in the country. It happens that a schoolteacher comes to school in the country, spends one or two days and doesn't show up anymore. Then the kids lose their class until someone has mercy on working in a country school. We expected that the proposal on amendments and additions to the elementary school law would solve this problem by obliging teachers, beginners to spend a certain period of time continuing in the rural area. That nothing will change in this part and that children from the village will not have conditions for good schooling in relation to children from the city, it is seen that even small municipalities with a small budget will have to provide money for professional training of teachers, professional associates and educators, transport of students from home to school, transportation of students distracted in development, building schools, investment and technical maintenance, equipment, material costs, where one of the major items is heating security. In order for a municipality of less than 20,000 inhabitants, like my Meroshina, to finance all of this, to spend the entire budget of the municipality on education.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20860	The word has a folk letter by Olgica Kircanski, and the next reported word is MP Stevan Guduric. DOS MP group, remaining time 41 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20861	Dear guests, I will be very brief; I feel the need to draw attention to only two things that I think are very important and important regarding these amendments and additions to the Law on Fundamental and High School Law. The first of these two things is proposed in the first article of one and the second amendment and additions, in the same text, and it is a ban on activities that threaten or degrade groups and individuals, based on racial, national, language, religious or full membership, i.e. political definition, as well as on the promotion of such activities, and on the prohibition of physical punishment and insult of students' personality. This is a complement that must come across the approval and support of all democratic and progressive society structures, especially the social democratic ones I belong to, because one of the fundamental programme definitions of social Democrats is the protection of human rights. The document on which the proposal is called to explain such a proposal is the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the Constitution. They are an unequivocal, firm and binding basis for such a supplement. Another thing that deserves our full attention, but with the opposite sign, is the introduction of electoral forms of educational-experienced work, religious classes and other subjects of ethical-humanist content, then the obligation to choose one of these two subjects and the obligation, for that school year, though, an electoral subject for the student. The documents to be called upon in the light of this proposal are the Universal Declaration on Human Rights, the International Civil and Political Freedoms Pact, the Final Act of the Helsinki Conference on Security and Cooperation and the Regulation on the organisation and exercise of religious teaching and teaching of alternative subjects in primary and secondary schools. It is true that in these international documents talks on the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion, public or private, in education, on the right to freedom of worship, teaching or performing religious rituals and rituals, on the right to freedom to perform religious and ritual rituals and teachings, on respecting the freedom of parents of guardians to provide religious and moral training of their children, in accordance with their beliefs. But I am deeply convinced that the only regulation on the organisation and achievement of religious teaching and teaching of an alternative class in primary and secondary school is being incorporated into the law, in an even more strict and stricter form, because it is complemented by the obligation to choose and make an election subject mandatory. The issue of introducing religion into schools concerns all of us, regardless of political and religious commitment and it was decided in very narrow circles without public insight. This is primarily a professional and educational issue and about professional arguments so far very little has been heard. I am convinced that the desire to introduce religiousism as a mandatory object is part of a broader effort to clarify society. The secular state and secular school are the basic flows of the development of modern civil society, and it should not be forgotten that the struggle for the autonomy of the university on the ground of Europe began as a struggle for autonomy from the church government, only then by the world government, and then continued as a struggle against the restrictions that church dogma imposed on freedom of teaching and science. In particular, the question is what are traditional churches and religious communities? In Serbia, along with three major religious communities, there are more than 20 others, some of whom are not small in world terms at all. I remind you that Serbia is a multi-religious and secular state in which no religious community, regardless of the number or number of believers, must be privileged. Experiences from this school year are that many students in some parts of our country have not been defined for these subjects, so this is now trying to correct the obligation to vote; also, during the school year, this small number has decreased, and it wants to prevent the obligation of an election course in that school year for a student. If the goal of introducing such a teaching is to create new believers, not to get acquainted with the basics of religion, then it should not be organised in schools but in churches. The state can help if it's necessary. In this way neither wants nor can faith be strengthened, but only the political power of the church and its close parties, parties, or a narrow circle of people outside the political will of the population, outside the electoral procedure and control of the public. Because of all of this, I am deeply convinced that these solutions bring the wheel of history back and that we will make a big mistake by accepting this part of the amendments and supplementing the law on elementary school and the law on high school. The amendments we have proposed we have tried to correct some of the changes and additions that relate to the introduction of electoral forms of educational-experienced work, as offered. My party colleagues and I, the Social Democratic Party MPs, will support these changes and additions in principle, but unless the amendments are accepted, we cannot support the law in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20862	The word has been made by MP Stevan G. Guduric, the remaining time of the SPS parliamentary group is four minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20863	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, talk about these reform laws that, as we understand it, need once more by the end of the year to come to order, I don't think it makes much sense, except that there are just a few things to be said. We expected a lot of your pre-election promises, but we didn't expect the GSS minister to introduce GMO education, or "Citizen Soros Education" to make myself a little clearer. In this first article, there are talk of some students on the street, I remember students on the street from the time you took them with your colleagues, so I now understand why Prime Minister Djindjic is no longer speaking to students at this time of fuel consumption in Serbia or as he says, "Serbia on a good path" (if it can be called good at all). You lied to them and they ended up teaching that lesson, and you're already going to elementary school and high school, because there's still some lie to sell, just maybe you should go to preschools, they seem to be the only ones who still...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20864	Mr. Guduric, please return to the agenda topic, especially since the head of your parliamentary group insisted on it. You'll agree that this isn't the topic of the agenda either.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20865	To talk about depoliticization, to that one of three "d" is real funny. I can accept that some of the school's principals were only put up for political reasons in some principal place at some school. I can accept that, and I don't want to get too close to it. I can't accept that all 14 high school directors in Novi Sad were just politically appointed and that no one knew anything and had any idea. As far as I know, New Sad high schools have ratings in both that and this Yugoslavia. Then it would probably be part of the credit of those directors that you shot off cold and easy, because they had a bad political omen. To talk about "d" and that depoliticalization is, to say the least, ridiculous, because it just doesn't make sense that's not true. You know, you said the socialists, while they were in power, filmed on TV and opened their refrigerators. You should be happy and happy, Mr. Minister, that some of them haven't recorded in the cafes what they look like, because some of you wouldn't come to the streets of Serbian rulers, not the minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20866	Mr. Guduric, because of a violation of Article 101, and based on Article 103, I give you my first warning and set a break of up to 15.00 hours. [[After break - 16.05.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen, please insert your cards into the MPs to determine the quorum. I agree that we have a quorum and that we can continue to work, a joint principle debate on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Charter of Fundamental Schools and on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on High Schools, according to applications for the word of Members of the People's Parliaments. The MP Lazar Marjanski, who twice entered the hall and went out during the quorum's determination, failed to perform his duty to Article 217, gave the first warning, on the basis of Article 103. The word is made by the MP Bratoljub Janačković. The next to be reported is the People's Messenger Rodoljub Sabic. I ask MP Bratoljub Janackovic to wait one minute until MPs who do not meet their obligations take their seats, so that you will not be disturbed in the discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20868	Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us the draft laws on amendments and additions to the law on elementary and high school. The proposed changes do not change the concept of primary and secondary education. The ambition of the promoters this time is to detect numerous shortcomings and weaknesses in the 10-year practice of the validity of this law to remove and comply with the achieved degree of democratisation of society. The applicable laws on elementary and secondary schools were passed in 1992. The basic weakness of these laws is seen in a high degree of centralisation and decision-making at the level of the Republic. From this highly politicised, and in essence the anti-democratic ambitions of the former government to manage the school, all other problems have arisen, whose most visible and most tragic effect has been the long-standing suspension of the work and strikes of educators, and thus a poor educational-educated process for many generations of secondary and primary school students. Proposed changes by the government create assumptions for successful depoliticalisation, decentralisation and democratisation of school work. The proposed new way of establishing the school board, by formula 3+3+3, i.e. three representatives of the school, three representatives of local self-government and three representatives of the parent council, if not the most ideal, because there are no ideal solutions, then it is certainly the best and the most just at the moment, because it provides equal opportunities for all participants who are vitally interested in the successful work of the school. A local self-government that fails to find a common language with school and parents, and for the benefit of students, and doesn't deserve to survive, should be changed. And vice versa, a teaching staff that fails to provide its natural ally in their parents, is hardly able to count on the wider support of the social community. There's obviously something wrong with that. Dearly respected, this law, with principled discussions and discussion in particular, which should begin for a moment, we should define and edit our position on organising and conducting religious teaching and civic education in schools. The need for this teaching certainly exists - but what form, whether or not and what degree of obligation - dilemmas are also issues to which the best answer will give practice and time, and not today this Parliament. The arguments exist both for and against, but let's let practice and time go, so we'll see how that happens. That's why New Democracy thinks a little methodological error may have been made, or, in sports language, a step error: a transitional period and experimental teaching in viewing schools are missing, and then an analysis of the effects of that teaching, in order to eventually get a proposal with the strength of the argument confirmed in practice. But, well, there's time. Ladies and gentlemen, given this in mind, and wanting to make my contribution to "healing" the nation, and biologically, and in the broadest sense of that word, and in the light of the laws we are talking about today, New Democracy has launched an action and initiative to introduce health education in primary and secondary schools. I'm not going to talk about the arguments in this initiative today. It's not the time. They're pretty clear on their own. But I'll say, the action we're running will take weeks. If the initiative succeeds and we get support from the wider and professional public, we will address your Ministry and you, respected ministers, with the idea and ambition to suggest that the next school years of health education or education in some experimental form be introduced into some of the viewing schools. After that, on the basis of established criteria, we would analyse the effects and effects and determine the extent and form of the possible presence of health education in primary and secondary schools. Perhaps only then would the right dimension and affirmation, today or tomorrow, by introducing a class of religious education and civic education, in a community with some form of health education, provide a process of comprehensive education and education for young people and children. For these reasons, New Democracy MPs believe in success and support the efforts made by the Ministry of Education on a thorny path towards implementing a reform of primary and secondary education. Therefore, there is no dilemma for New Democracy, the Ministry of Education and the Government of the Republic of Serbia deserve trust and will receive votes from New Democracy MPs and for these laws, again I say, with faith and conviction that, together with the Ministry, in a period that is ahead of us, they will contribute to the construction of the right reform law. But this should end when you estimate that the law can be indisputable reform, which means it has been passed and implemented, because it is one thing to pass the law in parliament, and the other is its real application and compliance with the material and technical assumptions, because the best reform without material and technical assumptions is just a dead letter on paper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20869	The word has a folk MP, Rodoljub Sabic, and the following is the registered MP Velimir Simonovic. The overall remainder of the DOS parliamentary group is 27 minutes and there are five other registered speakers; one speaker is from New Serbia, and the time of the DOS parliamentary group - New Serbia is 10 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20870	Dear ladies and gentlemen, we have before us the draft laws on amendments and additions to the law on elementary and high school. The position of the Social Democrats is less - more known because several of them spoke before me. These laws bring papers that deserve to be supported. Those in a series of elements, starting from increasing parental participation and local self-government in governance, to solutions that modernise the specialisation system, and improved in correlation with progress, certainly deserve support. So this is something that the Social Democrats will define that the laws, after the debate has ended, provide support in principle. However, there is one thing why we were forced to put more amendments on the text of the bill and will depend on our relationship at the end of the search. It's a famous thing. It's actually a matter of religious teaching. And to say right away, not only as democratically mooded people, but as civilized people, we believe that freedom of faith, freedom of religion, including, of course, freedom of religious teaching, fall within the fundamentals of human rights. They are an inalienable part of the human rights corps and any restriction, alienation or prevention is not acceptable. Our view of it is firm and axiomatic. The problem is that the method of realization proposed in the laws does not correspond to the civilization principle of secular state. We do not think that religious teaching should be organised, but it is very difficult to suggest that it is organised in public schools. But I'll come back to that question later, because it's not the only open question about it. Another question: For which religious communities does the law reserve the right to organise religious teaching? The bill promoter has been defined as a rather fluid term, a traditional church, and I don't think even we in this room can achieve agreement that is of twenty, 15, five, or six religious communities - traditional. Are we going to have a problem with that and especially with the fact that some large religious communities in the world are not quite traditional here? I understand the responsibility and fear of the cult problem. But, ladies and gentlemen, the sects can be called "religious communities." The sect's problem is not solved by this law, not even by the Law of Religious Communities, but by Criminal Law. The problem of Satanists and other similar sects cannot be solved in this way, but we must not get into a situation that is almost tragic, to say that the faiths that gather hundreds of millions of believers around the world, sects, and that in this country they have no right to organise religious teaching. But, well, ladies and gentlemen, not to be too long, the Social Democratic MPs have taken up too much of your time anyway, to go to the third question, which is actually about the fact that religious teaching is already in our schools: it is introduced by the Serbian government regulation; we are not people who cannot understand reality, we do not predicate that our principles are the only ones that are acceptable and we are not inclined to ignore history. It is true that beyond this country there is a period of decades of aggressive atheism, the domination of such atheism, it is not at all controversial; it is true that there has been a lot of hypocrisis in achieving religious rights and freedoms, even in relation to what has been written in the constitutions since 1946. It's all true and that's why we think -- it's the logic of the main amendment that we've proposed -- that organisation of religious teaching at school may well be accepted as some historical justice; if the slaughter went too far to one side at a time, then, and if I don't have the taste, maybe it can go to the other. But that's one thing. The other thing is compulsory religious teaching. We follow one logic that we consider to be the only possible and justified. We, gentlemen, in this country can be divided into members of different religious communities: traditional and non-traditional; we can also be atheists, agnostics, so we don't belong to any religious community; but we can't be divided by that we're all citizens of a single state -- it's something that we all share. The state should therefore, therefore, not disputed, ensure that freedom and rights are achieved to its citizens and make a maximum effort in that direction. Our relationship with this amendment to the issue of religious teaching is thus set up, but the exercise of the right of one should not impose an obligation on others. Our amendment goes to make it possible for anyone who wants his child to attend religious school, I repeat it at the state school, but that's why those who don't want their children to attend religious classes don't have to impose any other obligations on their children. The relationship to these amendments is very important to us, but the relationship to this last one I was talking about is actually the most important thing. Therefore, the adoption or non-admitment of this amendment will depend on the definitive relationship of the Social Democrats under the Proposal for a Law amending the Fundamental School Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20871	The DOS parliamentary group has a total time of 21 minutes, the word has a MP, Velimir Simonovic, and has three other registered speakers from the DOS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20872	Ladies and gentlemen, since there are three other speakers, and the time is short, I will not say everything I intend to say, there is simply no time for that, but I will get back to you when my amendments come on the agenda. I wanted to mention first two things that are not directly related to this proposal, but are related to school reform. The first thing, in short, is the question of teaching foreign languages in our schools, primary and secondary. The situation is very bad, it is unimaginable that children, young men and girls learn seven, eight or ten years of foreign language, and still, at the end of school, do not learn it. That's why we introduce languages to German colleges, let's say at technical colleges, which is completely pointless. Therefore, more attention should be paid to the teaching of foreign languages and, if necessary, to increase the number of lessons. I've learned these days the amazing fact that even in Belgrade, we don't have qualified professors of foreign languages. In one elementary school, a foreign language teaches a man who graduated from the Higher Tourism School. Therefore, the ministry must take steps to increase the number of students in the Faculty of Philology who are preparing for foreign language teachers. The second thing is a proposal for future reform of our schools, and that is to finally stop our children from going to school at seven years; at the latest at six years of age they should go to school, and in some countries they go to school at five years of age. It's too late for our kids to go to school when they're seven. We'd get one year of savings here, so if we think about maybe reducing schooling from 12 to 11 years old, then we'd already have 17-year-old students who at 21, 22, 23, how long colleges are, they'd already be graduate students and they could do their job. Now the main question, I have amendments, and that's religious teaching in schools. I'm talking about it because it binds me to that program of my party. The Democratic Centre is a Republican party, according to our programme, a party for the lay country and school. It is absolutely unacceptable for us to introduce a subject of religion in public schools. There are many reasons for this: scientific, pedagogical, social, so if you want political. We know how religion was introduced last year -- by a government regulation, by the Constitution and by the law. It was a political decision. We cannot reduce education to making various decisions about it as political decisions, because it is not good. Of course, every state and every system, coalition or party in power can also influence education according to their programmes. But you don't need to mix politics too much. The introduction of religion creates the clericalization of not only our schools, but also the clericalization of our society. The government's regulation last year actually made a difficult manipulation of the church. Here I think, first of all, of the SPC, which agrees with that manipulation; it thinks it'll benefit. So the Serbian Orthodox Church does not realise that it is much better for her to seek to be as separate as possible from the state as possible, and that she is working with the state as much as necessary. Then we have funny situations like, say, celebrating state institutions. In the country of Serbia, it was known about the glory of the cafekeepers, about the glory of doctors, about the fame of the craftsmen, but the glory of the state institutions never existed. It's a fashion now. Well, then, revenge on state buildings. I read a while ago, she was avenged, they say, by the administrative building of Customs. The other day I saw again: the stone foundation for the tobacco factory in Chačka was avenged. So the poison of our youth is avenged; that's where the poison for our youth will be produced, but there were five priests who avenged the cornerstone. In many things, the SPC has lost its sense of what it can do and what it cannot do, given its historic mission in the Serbian people. So, to give others from my parliamentary group a chance to say something, I'll stop here, but I'll get back to you when my amendments are on the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20873	Thank you. Dragisa Popovic reportedly, and the next registered speaker is MP Dragan Kovacevic. Sixteen minutes is the total time for three MPs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20874	Mrs. Micic, fellow MPs, it is not disputed that DS MPs will vote in favour of this law. At this point, it is very important not to forget, that we never do again: Serbia comes out of the ashes with the legacy of wars, ten-year-old tyrant rule, with a destroyed economy, neglected and misused legal system and destroyed infrastructure. That's what you shouldn't forget. What about the education system? He was relatively well developed in the previous system, but after ten years in the highest number of schools missing basic funds. School facilities are abandoned, teachers demoralized by reducing their position in society. The previous government is gentlemen, and we must not forget that, at one point, has led educational workers to a single mark's salary. Let's remember December 1993, and we'll never forget it and it'll never happen again in our country. Dragoljub Stamenkovic: Now a little bit about the law. )......................................................................................................... I'll tell you about the law. The schools have inherited debts, the responsibility of the director from the previous system stands and will be disclosed. What's the education task? It employs the education sector, practically a third of the working population, and that is the pillar of every society; in particular this pillar is important for our society at the moment when we want comprehensive reforms, when we want to bring the country closer to Europe. A strategic document of quality education for all is a path to a developed society, in fact a statement on the government's intentions of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Education and Sports of the Republic of Serbia and what is further in this sector. It is good and should be commended that my fellow teachers, teachers and teachers have not lost the will to participate in reforms, have not lost their will because they believe in this government; because this government has averaged the salary of 66 marks found in December 2000 to bring the average salary to one real figure in these economic opportunities of 300 marks. The laws are only a step in reforming our education sector, and I especially want to raise a rather debated question here, which is religious teaching. I want to say what no one here has mentioned, which is the right to believe. In the preamble, the Convention on the Rights of the Child, adopted by the UN in 1990 and ratified by the former state, this ratification still applies, takes into account the importance of the tradition and cultural values of each nation for the protection and coherent development of the child. Article 20. The Convention considers that attention should be paid to the fact that continuity in raising a child, as well as ethnic, religious, cultural and linguistic origins of a child is desirable. If tradition, cultural values and the religious background of the child are something that protects such a significant UN document, it is truly strange that certain human rights fighters oppose the introduction of religious religion for all traditional confiscations of this space - Orthodox, Roman Catholic, Muslim, traditional Protestants, where the Orthodox Church indeed seeks. How's that in Europe? The required teaching is in the following countries of Europe -- Austria, Norway, England, Wales, Greece, Germany, Romania, Sweden. Election subject - Czech Republic, Finland, Belgium, Slovakia, Croatia, Spain and Italy. The course of religion, an electoral object, which has an alternative, ethics and philosophy - Finland, Belgium, Slovakia, Croatia, Spain and Italy. I'm saying all of this for a simple reason -- we're in Europe, Europe is with us, we should continue where we left off about 60 years ago, so it's not at all questionable that religion should be represented as an object being studied in our schools. And finally, the MP here, as it were, Bucky Ivkovic, mentions the government's reform course. As far as the reform course of the Government of Serbia is concerned, in recent days, the most flattering assessments of the most prominent representatives of the international community have arrived; the attempt to challenge this course from this speaker is nothing more than an attempt to discredit the government, which is indeed reformal and which does indeed make our society more reorganised and closer to developed societies in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20875	There is a word from MP Dragan Kovacevic, the DOS-New Serbia parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20876	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, today you have spent a great deal of time on whether the school is a place to politicise and elect a director, and very little about those who are most important in the education and education system, and these are children. Rarely, they talked about the problems children face, and we are expected to get up here to protect those children, because the one who doesn't invest in the future has no perspective. Your attention at this point speaks of how you behave, a good part individually or grouply, to this big problem. Let each of you do the honors. Because the one who didn't work with the kids, he can't understand their problems, and the most valuable part of society is the maximum threat to the vastness of the material, the social community's relationship with the school, which should be the mirror of a modern and good state. The most burdened part of society, the ones that work the most, are students. And if we accept that these amendments to the law on secondary and basic education are only the first step in a comprehensive reform, which must be really serious and fundamental, then there is hope for this people and for this country. Our students on average must do much more than their parents, they must do much more than their teachers and teachers. For this reason, I appeal to all the people's chosen ones to give due attention to this problem, and I will make my contribution to some suggestions, in order to find the right solution. Whether or not to maintain a concentration education or to maintain a spiral education system, it is a matter of experts and in this sense, in the future, an educational council should be formed, which will be composed of the most respected professors, scientists and experts. Reform can't be brought in like so far, ad hoc, to gather a group or a group and say, from now on it's done, and to make it a real reform. Reform means a lot. If we applied the model of school verification, i.e. giving consent to work in these schools, I am quite certain that 90% of school spaces would not meet these criteria. What a realistic situation we have -- almost all school directors had to be members of ruling or ruling parties; in classrooms we have forty and more children, and in such conditions it is impossible to work; students from first to eighth grade hear about two billion different concepts, which is impossible to adopt and benefit; in the 21st century basic didactic means are still, unfortunately, chalk and board. In order for the state to progress, it is necessary to create material conditions, and these are to be passed on to schools. Some speakers today resented the minister and his associates attending schools. I think it is necessary: because then it would not have happened if the school in a village near Bogatic had closed its chair; it would not have happened, because the town of Cačak was an opposition town, that the minister would have disobeyed the regular request of the school to buy a burner so that the school could use gas without using pot-oil and that the school spent 120,000 liters of leach oil for a heating season. Well, that's what they did before, taking care of future generations. We have a real situation for students to get out of class. An absurd situation-- that someone who wants to learn something escapes from what they need to learn. The question arises, "What is the cause of these young generations' behavior?" Surely the cause lies in too much material, in too many demands, in neural ambitions. We want children of seven or eight years of age to be educated like they're 15 years old, young and girls who are 16 or 17 years old, we treat them like they're wunderkins, they know everything, that they're the most ready and the best. That's not true. We need to relieve our children, and the right to reform means reducing the volume of materials, reducing the amount of information, reducing everything they need to learn. The reform includes the following: that closed groups do not decide which teacher and expert prepares to respond to the requirements; that greater freedom is given to direct perpetrators; that inspection and supervisory services make a full contribution to the recovery of the situation found. In what state we found schools, I will illustrate this in one example: today, a fax arrived in the parliamentary group somewhere from southern Serbia that the roof of the school was destroyed and the tragedy was avoided, because a large amount of snakes appeared on the roof. That's how they took care of schools. I have the freedom to say that unfortunately your relationship with what I'm talking about shows what kind of students you were. [[Sagar.]] At least a good part. Children are also demoted because they have no job, which their parents are under-rewarded for the work they do. The question arises, realistically and truly -- who has been an idol to young people so far in this troubled country of ours. They were certainly not prominent professors, businessmen, but, unfortunately, their true idols were criminals, and this contributed to the system that existed in these areas. These untalented students don't even know our Father... [[Laughter]] (President: Mr Kovacevic, I warn you that time has gone too far. There's time, they're "young and perspective and they'll learn". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20877	The word has a folk MP Neda Arneric (speaks, blending) and the next reported is Stanko Kovacevic. You're giving up. Nine minutes is the time to discuss the DOS parliamentary group, and MP Kovacevic has quit.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20878	The Honorable Presidency, dear colleagues, in short - I've been listening to this debate all day and I just don't understand one thing: do we understand each other well when we talk about two new electoral subjects. It's about things we can do, and we don't have to attend. We can choose one of the two objects offered. Many here have said that religion is required to attend, and as far as I understand it is not mandatory and almost no one has mentioned this other subject, which in my opinion is even more important and important to all of us. Whatever we call it, whether it's a civil education, whether it's a science of morality, of ethics, in any case, it's something that we all miss a lot, because if we didn't miss it, I don't believe we'd be in the kind of chaos that we've found ourselves in the very recent past. So even if someone decides to go to religious school, I don't think that's why they have to become a hundred percent orthodox believer. This religion can learn a lot about the history of faith, about the canons of faith, about the customs of faith that you belong to; and this other object, which I think is much more important, is a civil object, should really affect all of you and us never again the things that have happened to us in the recent past. Thank you. So, two electives.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20879	Thank you. Since there are no more sign-ins on the list of parliamentary groups... I called you, Mr. Pavlovic, you can't, you weren't in the O.R. when I called you. That goes for all MPs. I can't give you my word, although there are eight minutes left for the DOS parliamentary group, because that's the order. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled search, I ask if the words of the representatives, or the president of the parliamentary groups, who did not exercise this right. The word is from MP Vladimir Garcevic, the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20880	I'd like the president to conduct the session properly. The names of SPS deputies are known, and you have that list in front of you, and I don't think this is how it can be done. On the other hand, you do not punish them, and you punish the messengers of the other party.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20881	You have been given the right to speak as an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group and on certain legislative proposals. So I'm asking you to stick to the subject, and I'm running a session.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20882	First and foremost, I'm going to go straight for the truth, and my colleagues are enlightening, who I've been working with and today I'm working in class, they know what's true. Ministers, professor's salary -- an educator's worker is 8,730 dinars for January, February and March, without employment. The hot meal is 2,650, according to the data that now exists, and when you take the regress pay is about 200 marks (votes - topic). It's the truth about education. The stories of the laws, which begin with the first member, which is said to be the protection of students from political parties, from the abuse of educational staff, do not stand, because so far the matter is regulated. I can accept that you put in some more words for clarification, but nothing new at all. If we need to look, and you've looked at the law, and you know it well. What you've offered new is two subjects, meaning religious education and civic education. I've been listening to beautiful songs that we don't need anything national, so it looks like we should choose civic education, not religious education. I want to warn you, when you left last year the possibility of a choice, in one of the schools of 300 students 30 declared themselves religious and only 15 for civic education. If you've introduced this means you've given the opportunity to freely identify students in high school. Now you're making them -- or you're going to accept religion, and if you don't want to, it's a little bit better to give up some national features, so accept civic education, because otherwise you don't need to know anything about yourself. When it comes to supervisory inspection, I think it is known that from 1992 to the new law inspections were separate and then there were educational -- pedagogical institutions at the level of the region; now it moved to other organised services. For those of us who work in education, we don't know what an inspector is and what a supervisor is. The supervisors had to take the exam for that part of the job at the state administration and the ability to exercise control, and how much who was doing their work that's another thing. It is said that nothing has been done in the previous period. I invite you Ministers, although I have no right and I am not a manager, to visit the Medical School of Sremska Mitrovica 70 kilometers away. I've also invited members of the school board. I hope to see you there as a professor. When it comes to school committees, it is said that there has been a democratisation. It's the same principle now. In elementary school, there was one parent, and now there will be three parents. The functioning of parents in schools will take a long time, until they are able to invest materially in schools and then the need for them to be fully involved. The current situation in primary schools, which I usually follow, is that normally you make choices by departments, you create one advice that can be useful, but it can't be decisive in choosing the frame. Why? You, Minister, have excluded one piece of the collective from this proposal to decide on its director, about 16 to 17% of the workers, and you have given the opportunity to decide on parents who do not have to have professional training. He could be a businessman without an elementary school and we already have one. So you're denying the right to one segment in education, which I can accept from the professional line, but I can't accept from the general line that one who isn't professional enough can decide. The school boards were and will now be formed according to local self-government or the minister. The minister will verify them. As for the election of directors, you know that no minister chose them, and neither did you choose these, but you came to me with the information, and you signed it, or how the parties reported it, or how someone who should report it, and you can't even know all the people. Therefore, the current choice that will go, nothing changes here and let us not cheat together, because we know that it will be as the political parties decide and you will get to sign; only if it works out a signal for you, so as a man you see that it is not good, and that was before. I can tell you there's been destabilization in a large number of collectives. There are collectives that work well in selecting new personnel, but there is one good percentage where the destabilision of the internal collective is, and that is why you tend to make collectives say secretly about the staff, because the question is how long it would go; and the question was also with some of ours whether they would have passed earlier in these competitions. So, allow me, make a statement, see how many V.D.s you won't get past. Director; large number. As far as the secretary is concerned, I still feel that the newly appointed should be high-prepared and that is not disputed; but, so far, we have had the opportunity to determine the preparation by the statute, meaning by the statute, not by law, we come to the minister's dilemma, you should have accepted what we proposed, to stay people and finish that part of the job. Let the new one go according to the law that goes into effect. If we want justice and justice, both are represented in that situation. As for the commentary that it was all black before, that you dragged the students into the streets and didn't work. My colleague Popovic, I say to you responsiblely that just as you dragged the students down to the streets, I can take the students to the streets of my school, tomorrow all of it, but it's not the essence of the matter: the essence of things is to see how the children work well, how to act legally, and how to teach the students the best we can. I'm taking this opportunity to see if what I'm saying is true and if they believe what I'm saying. I want us to move away from euphoria and go back to the profession, and the profession can be returned when education workers are allowed to think, because I believe in them, I believe in 100,000 educated people who lived in difficult conditions, and now they live in difficult conditions; we don't argue who are harder, and we can defend that; these educators deserve attention, and not only when you need to take students out into the streets. I hope there's a time when it won't be like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20883	The president of the DOS parliamentary group - Democratic Alternative, the People's Parliament of Hope Kolundzija, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20884	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr. Minister, I'm going to say very briefly: this law has two key points on which the whole debate can be taken into account. The first is whether it is reform or not, whether it reformes education or not, and the second is the issue of introducing religion into schools, i.e. the academic choice between two subjects. The legislator also shows no claim that this is a fundamental reform law and we welcome it because we think reforming education is the most serious thing to really approach with a terrible lot of sensitivity. You need to work gradually, because it's not hard to make a perfect model or take over someone's model, but it's a question of how to get them into reality that's completely different. We therefore feel that it is good that education has taken place in this way, so step by step. The steps launched by this law open up an opportunity for what needs to be followed as a reform, because education alone is a process, and reforms must also be a serious and long-term process. The experiments in education, these experiences we had the opportunity to see, leave far-reaching consequences for many generations who are educated by some kind of experiment. We know Mr. Shuwar's education experiment and we know the consequences. We welcome the way education reform has been approached and welcome those topics that are open to this law. So these topics actually introduce education into a transition process, harmonising education with what is transition. There's no dilemma about us. As for the other dilemma that was a turning point here, the question is whether this law imposes something on force. As far as we're concerned, not getting into whether this issue is the happiest thing open, we're not going to discuss it, there's no such thing as this country, where moral criteria are broken, where moral values are completely executed, no reason for not introducing into schools anything that will be built in children from the very beginning of any moral norm, moral criteria, ultimately creating tolerance and feeling that we can share differences between ourselves, or that we can live even if we're different. So the fact that it's an electoral object and that on behalf of children, parents can choose one of these two objects, for us, excludes the claim, which is so firm, that this is the imposition of religion or other objects. There were a lot of stories about how children are burdened anyway and that children need to teach themselves what they need in life; I would really like to see what to determine that a child of seven needs in life, so what to teach him besides letters. I don't think the school is a driving test, so all you need to learn is what you need to drive, that education is one process of building a person and something that's much wider than a practical need for life. Of course, I guess after this, they're going to follow up, they're changing their curricula, which are really problematic, not so much in the scope and content of the concepts they're learning, but in the sense and accuracy of what they're learning right now. Children should be learning fact-finding things, not some kind of political structure. That is why the Democratic Alternative will vote in favour of the laws and we will vote in favour of a solution offered to introduce an electoral object, religion, or civic education.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20885	The speaker of the DOS parliamentary group, MP Cedomor Jovanovic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20886	Ms. Micic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I think it is clear that through this two-day debate, religious teaching and school management topics have become dominant in themselves and deserve some summary, in order to make it clear why the DOS parliamentary group stands in certain political positions. As for school management, I think it is a much safer and more useful approach proposed by the Ministry, a decentralisation approach, which we have inaugurated through the omnibus law and the Law on Local Self-Government, lowering that level of governance and decision-making to a part of the municipality, or city level, thus opening up the possibility of broad consultation, a general insight into all those processes that follow this work in school management. There are not many arguments that can defend the position defined by the current law. I think all these discussions were, in fact, much more the result of our political competitors' efforts to defend their political views, in fact, affirm themselves, than to challenge the law itself. So, we support the idea of the school board as the authorities of the conflict chosen and resolved by the local self-government assembly; we support the idea of a school committee whose composition gives the Minister of Education consent because of the problems present in the functioning of local self-government and because of the fact that our society is not yet at that level of maturity at which, through the authorities of local self-government, it is absolutely self-determined to decide on important generalized issues, such as the issue of school management. In order not to have different relationships and completely diametrically opposite situations, we are prepared to support this kind of supervisory vision by the Republic government's restoring ministry. As far as religious science is concerned, a little bit of this debate has gone one way in which, I'm afraid, we as MPs can't do much. You know, from Pontius Pilate to Mao Ce Tung, there were people who challenged religion and religion and those who defended her. If we take those positions in the parliamentary benches, I don't think we're going to solve a problem that's serious and that's present in our society. For this reason, I would, first of all, relate to several key topics that she has opened here: the possibility of selectivity, i.e. the idea of imposing religious teaching; the question of a traditional church, that is, the right to have a certain religious community organises religious teaching in state institutions; and finally, the issue of secular state, that is, the issue of fundamental and, in my opinion, a very important and inevitable postulate of democratic society, which is certainly what is secular that follows our daily life. The idea of religious teaching as an electoral object asked us whether we as MPs today could be greater popes than popes and whether perhaps, what was proposed in this law and what we as DOS defend, we became something like that. We're completely justified and backed up by facts - we're not. We have applied the most liberal concept of the influence of religion, that is, the science of religion in the area of the education system that can be applied, given, for example, the European trends and rules that exist in the European societies that we seek. If we analyse one side of this extreme that is characteristic of the UK or Greece and the other side of that extreme that is characteristic of Albania, Macedonia and, of course, France, which differs by much from these two examples (and Slovenia, I did not ignore the issue of Slovenia), you will see that we have defined ourselves as a subtle way of correcting the half-life injustice that itself has produced all these misunderstandings that we are talking about today. If we hadn't lived in the totalitarian system for 50 years, this topic would have been groundless, just as it was groundless in the parliaments of England, Germany, Italy, Spain, Slovenia, Croatia, Russia, Slovakia, the Czech Republic, Poland or Albania. The idea of selectivity is not the idea of imposing, and it cannot in itself exclude the importance and importance of civic education as an alternative to religious continuation. I may have studied a specific college, but it's hard to think of myself as a fully educated person if you can't interpret Michelangelo or understand Dostoyevsky's works, and I'm responsible for saying that you won't understand them in the way their creators wanted, if you don't understand religion, and if you're not able to assess to what extent everything that's characterized by religion is present in such important social topics. You will not be a responsible politician if you are not complete in this regard, as you must be complete by knowing religion, faith and personality that follow such a thing. The secular society was not questioned, only the possibility of wide education, for which we were denied; the education so far produced numerous dilemmas, which were not removed today, and among other things, the dilemma of the traditional church and its definition. When we talk about Chinese society, there's a traditional value for Confucius. In Serbia it is not; in Serbia there are traditional churches, they are rooted in our social being. These churches are in themselves the most interested in solving the problem of religious teaching, and they have launched this through clear initiatives. Here I will mention these churches, or religious communities, and in such a way I may remove the vagueness present in the work of the MPs who discussed it. Traditional religious communities are: the Serbian Orthodox Church, the Islamic Community, the Bishop's Conference, the Catholic Church of Yugoslavia, that is, the Roman Catholic Church, the Evangelical Church, the Reformation Christian Church and the Jewish community. All these religious communities, i.e. churches, have launched a joint initiative, unburdened by the prejudices that are politically present in the last decade in these areas, asking for serious access to the problem we are talking about today. As politicians, we must finally ask ourselves the question -- whether by closing the door, in the way it was done half a century ago in front of these topics in the education system, we will repeat that mistake that was made then and which produced this frightening extremism 50 or 60 years later. So if we are not ready to talk about these topics as discussed in democratic societies, then someone else will, with his arguments being certainly less democratic than those of ours. The idea of secular society has not been questioned; no one here is talking about the fact that the President of the Republic must swear on the Bible; or that a state holiday must be religious at the same time. If there were such cases, then they were not the result of some clariicalization of our society, but rather the fact that in the past our society was inseparably connected with the church and that it was difficult to recognize important social dates and to separate them from important churches. Therefore, we will support the idea of religious teaching at school, but not with the intention of indoctrining our society or those who will attend this class, but with the intention of offering people the opportunity to perhaps look at their surroundings differently and understand themselves. In the debates that were present, I saw that even MPs who disputed the idea, just like those MPs who defended it, were not familiar with, say, the statement of the Village Patriarch, or Pope of 1996, which recognises ontological discontinity and destroys that the thesis which was the crown argument in disowning every scientific attitude against the church, the thesis of evolution and so on. So let's let people try to do what they haven't been able to do for 50 years and there's no reason for parliament to be an obstacle, especially not that we have examples that in themselves are not rigid, they're not radical, they're a quality solution. I think those who from their political positions criticise this idea should not be anatized, these are political views, but it would be good for this to be the last debate with this topic in our society, because otherwise, not by developing this topic, but rather by stalling, we will repeat the mistakes of the past. We support religious teaching and civic education as electoral subjects; we impose no such thing on no one, but we open two possibilities on the contrary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20887	People's MP Mujo Mukovic, deputy president of the DOS parliamentary group – Vojvodina Reformists and the Sandzak Democratic Party, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20888	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the parliamentary group of the reformist Vojvodina and the Sandzak Democratic Party - DOS will support the proposed amendments and additions to the law on primary and secondary schools, as the head of the parliamentary group, Mr. Svircevic, said at the beginning of the debate. In the first row, because these changes and additions allow for the realisation of the leg of which the minister spoke in the opening presentation, so that democracy, depoliticalisation and decentralisation of education. The benefits of these changes and additions are that they prohibit activities that threaten or degrade groups or individuals based on religious, national, language, political and other belongings, as well as the physical punishment of students. It is also positive to separate administrative supervision from expert-pedagogical supervision, as well as to trust the local self-government of inspection supervision. This separation achieves greater expertise, efficiency and quality of control. The introduction of new titles, which teachers can obtain during professional training, according to the programme and methods of organisation, conditions and progress procedure, which is prescribed by the special act by the minister, will certainly contribute to the quality of teaching. However, the most important changes in these proposals are regarding the selection of school boards and the granting of school boards of powers to elect directors. We are all witnessing that in the past ten years this issue has been maximumly politicized and that the basic criterion for the director was actually belonging to one of the political parties that were in power. Such a law was also inherited by the government of the Democratic Opposition of Serbia, so by acting under the old law, it is true to a much smaller extent, however, that the rules of error in the appointment of individual school directors, just under the pressure of the municipal committees of certain DOS parties. There have been examples of these during the government of our government, so the DOS government. I am taking this opportunity to invite teachers to join the parents, because there will be six out of nine new school boards, doing everything they can to take matters into their own hands, and to propose and choose as directors of the best candidates, who enjoy their support, not the support of any political party. What is not covered by this proposal is founding rights. Nothing has been said about the rights of natural and legal persons, as well as national communities, to start their schools. We discussed this on the Committee on International Relations, and I have promises from the people of the Ministry that these issues will be resolved in the adoption of new comprehensive draft laws in this area. These laws also remain inconsistencies with the federal law on the protection of the rights of national minorities. As regards the adoption of curricula and programmes from specific subjects of particular interest for national minorities, as well as textbooks, national councils of national minorities, whose representatives would have to participate in the adoption of national curricula and programmes, should be consulted in the future; therefore, from specific subjects relevant to national minorities, of course, together with the Ministry of Education. Since the explanation of the Ministry's representatives was that these issues would be resolved by new bill proposals, on which we hope not to wait very long, we have accepted it and will support the proposed amendments and additions to these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20889	National MP Zoran Cirkovic, deputy president of the New Serbia parliamentary group, spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20890	Madam Vice-President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have listened very carefully to the presentations of MPs and MPs in the parliamentary debate on the set of these two educational laws. I admit I'm not surprised, because as a member of the Educational Committee, I've had a chance to get acquainted with the attitudes of people who simply don't think of this thing as a majority. So it was a rerun for me, and I admit that the anger I showed at the Educational Committee sessions is not going to be rephrased. When it comes to these two laws, there may be two dilemmas in which the law simply remained unsettled. It is a matter of deadlines for the election of directors, most of whom are now in the status of performers. The second dilemma creates a way of selecting board members from the parent council, for the simple reason that the authorities had one representative on the school board before, is chosen by the school director. Since the parent’s advice has not yet been established and with little hope that it will be successfully established, it remains a serious concern that the school’s directors will, in order to preserve their status, because they are now in V.D. The status, in order to improve their status and be elected director, is likely for members of the board, or members of the school board from the parent council, to choose people who favor them. Although I didn't believe that a statement about this law would turn into a statement of whether or not we're going to introduce religion, now I'm starting to believe it. I hope that the DOS Left will not succeed in this intention to challenge the reform intention, the good and noble intention of this government to return to our schools. It's quite certain that no one really had a bad word at the expense of civic education. Civil education is like the subject of a derogation for those who simply won't learn religious education. Now, as that left was unique, I'll give you a translation of the Marks password "The Springers of All Countries Unite", but in Bosnian. It's like this: "Fuccare, butum dunuca, you've got to kill yourselves." Finally, let me say that the DOS-New Serbia parliamentary group will vote in principle for this law, although we have made our reserves in the opening statement. In the hope that this will be the beginning of more serious reforms, I call on the remaining serious part of the DOS to support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20891	The Minister of Education, Mr. Gašo Knezevic, called for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20892	Madam President, the presidency, the honourable MPs, I am sorry to begin this last address with a personal address. I'm sorry because I know Mr. Garcevic doesn't have a chance to replicate me, but he personally called me asking me if I knew how much he was in the education pay. Due to the salary, the Serbian government has managed to bring salary pay dynamics to month-on-month levels, so that educational workers no longer go in winter coats on June's salary. The dynamics are being maintained and there's getting a little bit, and that's where I agree, but with a constant increase. Sir, eight years ago, for my New Year's pay, which I got as a professor of college, I got two-and-a-half marks running; if I had gone slow, I'd have got two stamps. It's a problem that once existed. I hope we never come back at that time again. As for the many remarks that have been heard here, the rapid reforms and many reminders of our children, it is true and I am witness to the fact that children of a lot of hard work and parent engagement must be absorbed in order to master school material. It's not disputed that plans and programs will change. I will now try to show you the external manifestations of schools, as the school looks at an outside observer and to tell you briefly, in five minutes, where we are in the reform process, where the Serbian government is. The external manifestations of schools, therefore, as a regular man sees school are: teaching process, plan and program, books i.e. textbooks, evaluation system, administration or school management and school equipment. That's six outdoor events of the school. As far as teaching goes, the problem is methodological. The methodological approach of the students' sea to put in the center of events and six hundred schools appeared on our project - pilot program for changing the teaching system. In this country, schools are ready to accept the reform, and in the future they will not say that the reform is intended for them. Evidence of this is the six hundred applications, which is the third school in Serbia. Plans and programmes; school 2003/2004. Reforms of plans and programmes begin. In doing so, it takes you eight years to reform a school's plan, because when you start first grade, by the time you get to eighth grade, it's eight years. We will enter Europe for the first time on four levels of reform and the commission is already doing so. This will reduce the cycle of change of plan to three years, from 12 to three. The Commissions are doing everything and they are formed. The textbooks change at the moment when plans and programs change. Everything before that is premature. The evaluation system is changed by introducing new criteria and introducing external or external graduates and new admission exams in the process in which we entered. Administration; this law carries changes in the school management process. It's already proof that we agreed, or that we had something else planned. Equipment is the most difficult thing to talk about because of the poverty of the country and the state of the budget. Still, I think I can do with enough groundwork without letting myself down and promise that by June next year, all high school will have one computer lab. So 16 computers will have every high school. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20893	Thank you. I am concluding a joint principled search on the draft law amending and supplementing the Charter of Fundamental Schools and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the High School Act and we are moving to a decision on the draft laws in principle. First, I put the draft law on amendments and additions to the elementary school law, in principle. For 135, against 46, the abstentions were not voted nine out of 192 MPs. I find that most of the votes were passed by the National Assembly by the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Fundamental School Act, in principle. Secondly, I put the draft law amending and supplementing the High School Act in principle. For 140, against 46, the abstentions did not vote 7, out of 193 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill, in principle. The National Assembly will carry out a review of the proposals for legislation, which have been carried out in principle and which have been accepted in particular, and will vote in general. We move to the 7th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of Fundamental School Law (single) You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Anita Beretić, Dragisa Popović and Jakov Stamenković; Velimir Simonović; Zeljo Hurić; Milan Radulović and Bojana Aleksic; Bojana Aleksic, Vladimir Andrić, Marina Stamenković, Milan Radulović and Nenad Lemajić; Živko Selaković; Vlastimir Budimović; Išpanovič Istavnić; Rodoljub Šabić, Vlatko Sekulović and Branko Pavlović; Rajko Baralić; Milan Stanković; Hranislav Perić; Rade Bajić; Jura Lazić; Sreten Mitrić; Golub Rajoljub Rajović; Milović Nešović; Živodovljanka Petsović; Živić Pošarić; Živić Kražilić Mira Žar Žar Žar Žar Žažić, Miražić, Radić, Miražić, Radožić, Žović, Radić, Žović, Žović, Dragić, Žalić, Dragić, Dragažić, Vrić, Dragažić, Dragažić, Žažić, Žović, Žalić, Žalić, Vrić, Žalić, Vrić, Vrić, Vr. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. National MP Pal Shandor has submitted untimely amendments to the bill. At the meeting of the Committee on Education, the amendments were withdrawn by the MPs: Vlasimir Budimovic, who is added to Article 1a, the amendment to Article 1(1), which is added after Article 11a, and the amendment to Article 17; Bojana Alexic, Vladimir Andric, Marina Stamenković, Milan Radulović and Nenad Lemajic, part of the amendment to Article 6 which is proposed to add a new point 3a after point 3a; Velimir Simonović, amendment to Article 15 and amendment to Article 24 and Zeljo Huric, which is added after Article 16a. Please be quiet. On the occasion of the adoption of amendments to the MPs, a representative of the Government of the Republic of Serbia at a session of the Committee on Education withdrew the government's amendments to Articles 17, 28 and 35. You have received reports from the Committee on Education, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on International Relations. Since the National Assembly, following the completion of the joint principled search, under which the draft law amending and supplementing the Charter of Fundamental Schools has been discussed, has adopted the proposal for this law in principle, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. The word is by MP Igor Soldatovic, a proposal by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20894	The Honorable Presidency, respected colleagues, proposed by the Rules of Procedure -- due to a large number of amendments, I propose that the debate be shortened in particular for three minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20895	On the basis of Article 138, I would like to put to the vote the motion of MP Igor Soldatovic to hold a debate in particular three minutes after the amendment. We declare each proposal individually. For 101, against 53, the two abstentions, were not voted 20, out of 176 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that the debate in particular takes three minutes. No more suggestions? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Rajko Baralic. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The applicant for the amendment is not present. Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? There is a word from MP Vladimir Garcevic, an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20896	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister and Associates, an SPS MP who is currently absent for legitimate reasons, has submitted an amendment to Article 1 where the word "or" is deleted, and in point 2 after the word "students" is deleted and the word "worker" is added. The reason for this part of the Law is this - we felt that political organisation at school is the same as other parts, whenever it comes to groups, individuals, etc. It didn't mean anything to you to accept that part, and I think everything should be evened out, because it would endanger the rights of individuals and groups within the facility. On the other hand, we are exposed in the extreme case, and workers, and students, and parents, in these contemporary movements that we have, problems; we have suggested that all participants in the process of work, and that means the student, the parent and the professor, the worker, be fully protected, and we added that in that part. Whatever you said that certain other regulations regulate these topics, I also believe that for those who participate in the process of education and education, it should be regulated in a unique place. We discussed this on the Committee, and most of the votes were rejected. Once again, I suggest that this part be accepted, because I believe that this is how we equate all the participants in the process of work, in the facilities where educational and experimental work is performed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20897	Is there anyone else applying for a word from the authorised participants in the debate under this amendment? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 31, against 105, the abstentions were not voted 24 out of 160 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP Alexander Vukic submitted to the 1st Amendment. The government and the Education Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment possible. Please, the deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20898	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in order to legislate a regulation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which regulates the behaviour of the elementary school, we have passed a law that took a year and a half to write, and now you promise us a full law - if it is at this rate, it will take us 10 years to get that new law. But what we wanted by amendment to Article 1. Proposal for a law on elementary school? First of all, why copy the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Article 1 of this proposal of the law states that the school prohibits activities that threaten or degrade groups and individuals based on racial, national, language, religious or semi-political identity, as well as the promotion of such activities. In Section 2: "Physical punishment and insult of students are forbidden in school." Let me remind you of article 13. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia - citizens are equal in rights and duties and have equal protection, regardless of race, gender, birth, language, nationality, religion, political or other confidence, education, social origin, property or any personal property. Article 26. The constitution clearly states in Section 2: "No one must be subjected to torture, humiliating punishment or conduct." I tried to find an excuse for the position of the promoter who refused the amendment and said that this is how everyone is prevented from punishing children. That's not true. This article, and then Article 15, which regulates the punishment for those who do not comply with Article 1, is obvious that only a teacher cannot discriminate on students based on individual belongings, i.e. only a teacher must not physically punish children at school. He doesn't say anywhere that the school secretary can't punish, because there's no apostrophe of school employees and nowhere in the transitional and final, or criminal provisions of schools that are not subject to sanctions unless the director takes action against someone else at school who is engaged in activities that are not permitted by Article 1. The question is, what are these groups at school that might be demeaning? What groups are these, when we have students and individuals and our Constitution constantly regulates the rights of citizens. Furthermore, how can students be discriminated against on the basis of political commitment? It's about the elementary school law. The oldest student in that school is 15 years old. What kind of political commitment at school? And who's going to do it at school...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20899	I'm warning you, time's over.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20900	I know, but you've become a three-minute assembly. Put together two very important draft laws in the debate in principle, and then even for amendments that come to the agenda to discuss them for three minutes, and you want to claim that you have enabled a proper, professional or any debate on the bill's proposals. You don't care about the debate on bill proposals. All you care about is that the law goes by as soon as possible, and I warn you of provisions that are not good in this bill. It's the easiest thing to do is raise your hand, vote for one bill and say, "We're three minutes out of time to discuss it."
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20901	Mr. Nikolic, next time I warn you, it's the fifth minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20902	There are only a few members of the law that are important to discuss. Everything else is a technique and you're limiting that debate to three minutes. That in Serbia, ever since it was a multi-party system, has not been there.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20903	Mr Nikolic, since this was, in fact, an adjudication of the Rules of Procedure, I just want to tell you that this three-minute limit does not apply only to the applicants of the amendments but also to the promoter, the minister, to representatives of the parliamentary groups who have a different opinion, who do not accept the amendment; it means, equally to everyone - three minutes. That's quite enough time to explain if you stick to the agenda theme. (Tomislav Nikolic from the scene: I didn't tell you anything.) Well, you were talking about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 54, against 81, a abstentioned one, was not voted 24 out of 160 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The MPs Rodoljub Sabic, Vlatko Sekulović and Branko Pavlovic submitted together to the 1st amendment. The government and the Education Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment possible. Does a representative of the applicants of the amendment want a word? Please, MP Branko Pavlovic came forward for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20904	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment's proposal is actually an attempt to legalise what we already have in the draft law on amendments to the elementary school law. According to Article 1, as proposed, it prescribes some values that are protected by the Constitution itself, and we have only suggested that Article 3 be added, which would read: "The school performs educational and probationary action in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia." In other words, we don't think it's important that it's different from this concept, we think it's better legally. If you are already going on a tax-list based on the Constitution, that you have one clause that is broad and that defines that everything has to be done in accordance with the Constitution, because changing the Constitution can have some kind of different formulation in a member, and when you have attitude 3. then there is no need for the law to be aligned with any new constitutional formulation. So this is a purely legal-technical question, and we think it's better if there's a position 3 next to these two. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20905	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Here's a word from MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20906	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, however, I think it was necessary to maintain a provision that said that political organisation, operation and use of school space for those purposes were not allowed at school, because the provision, from the Constitution, was prescribed and applied only to school, was absurd. It turns out now that the bus is allowed to threaten or belittle a group based on its religious, national or any other belongings, since the school is now being pulled out as a place where it is not allowed. Then it turns out it's allowed in the theater. Next, what if there's a group whose religious background is a member of a church, not a traditional church? We have now heard from one MP what the Government means under the traditional church and I cannot accept it. The constitution is clear. The constitution in two terms speaks only of the religious community. It means that the government is obliged to further break the law to tell which religious communities are in the Republic of Serbia. But what if there's a sect, you know how many there are, and it's a group that has a religious background, and you're forbidding Article 1 of Section 1 that it's being expelled from school, because you haven't defined anything. You're just saying - you can't be disrespected or threatened by a group based on religious belongings. Is it clear enough for school, for the school director, and you know that his sanction is not only to stop being a director, but also to lose a job if he does not respect Article 1 of this Law and not to resign in the disciplinary procedure of a teacher who has allowed the abuse of a religious group that exhibits its religious membership at school. I wouldn't allow that display of religious belongings. I wouldn't allow traditional churches, not to offend the feelings of others, especially if others are in the minority. You've set up here so wide that any group, with any religious background at school, can do whatever they want and no one can object to them, because they'll lose their jobs. It's this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-23-0.u20907	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 34, against 97, a abstentioned one, did not vote 25, a total of 157 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 2nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojana Alexic, Vladimir Andric, Marina Stamenkovic, Milan Radulovic and Nenad Lemajic. The government and the Education Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. We'd be done with today's work, and we'll continue tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, the session is attended by 158 MPs. I figure we have a quorum and we can keep working. I inform you that they are prevented from attending the following MPs: Stevan Lilić, Radomir Naumov, Vlatko Sekulović, Dusan Golubović, Dragan Šutanovac, Zarko Obradović, Miroslav Markicevic, Ružica Veljović, Milos Lučić, Dusan Cvetković, Petar Misic, Miroslav Christodulo, Boško Ničić, Išpanovic Istvan and Teodora Vlahović. I ask the MPs who do not participate in the determination of the quorum to at least make a mess, not to interfere with our work. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. Also, according to members 83 and 84. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that I invited representatives of the Centre for Free Elections and Democracy, the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities of Yugoslavia, the Student Union of Serbia, the Alliance of Students of Belgrade, students of the Study Group for Constitutional Law at the Faculty of Law of the University of Belgrade, representatives of the National Movement "Resist", the Low Student Association and the Student Federation. I welcome the guests present. We move to the 7th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF THE BASAL SCHOOL (single) I would like to remind you that the time for discussion is limited to three minutes. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Government and the Education Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Petar Jojic, submitr of the amendment to Article 2. It's a bill of law.
