ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17172	Dear Members of the People's Parliament, article 51 treats one area of special interest to the Republic of Serbia and represents one of the strategic security guards of the Republic of Serbia. He's talking about stock reserves. With existing provisions of the Serbia Stock Reserve, it forms a republic and a municipality. Their strategic importance has been developed for several reasons. The first and primary certainty is: overall stability, the preservation of resource stability. What resources are these? It's mostly food. It is contained most in this area of material reserves. By trusting this authority to Vojvodina, the Republic of Serbia may be the most detached here from the concept of economic policy and the preservation of strategic reserves, which are of paramount importance to the population. Let me remind you, these are primarily cereals, wheat and corn, olives, sugar, meat and meat processing, and, of course, other types of products, primarily, in relation to agricultural production. By transferring this area to an autonomous province, security of the Republic of Serbia is certainly being violated. I must say, at the end of this calendar year, we will have the opportunity, as a narrow Serbia, to buy from Vojvodina wheat, corn, meat and meat processing, oil and sugar. Of course, besides these strategic raw materials, there are others, such as energy, such as certain types of matter in the field of chemical products etc. I think the farthest distance here is from the concept of statehood and conditions have been created for something that most of all gives Vojvodina the attributes of the Republic. The existing legislation makes these elements inaccessible to autonomy and can only be made available to the Republic. At the end of each fiscal and economic year, the Republic collects its resources, its surpluses in production, and real balances, and exports from these areas, as well as strategic raw materials and supplies of other energy products, such as raw materials for the processing of medicines, such as oil and oil derivatives, such as other types of raw materials needed for the Republic of Serbia and for the operation of the economy in Serbia. The passing of such a member of the law in this omnibus has put a lot of things at risk. I think that the promoter, and the one who gave consent to such a member of the law, does not care at all about the interests of the Republic of Serbia. We also had a presentation here by Prime Minister Djindjic on the economic policy of the Republic of Serbia for 2002. It is diametrically different from this member of the law, because this directly endangered economic stability of the Republic of Serbia has been given into the hands of the handling of important state resources of some other bodies, in which, frankly, I do not trust and do not believe that the achievement of this function will be in the interest of all Serbian citizens. Therefore, I expect you to accept this amendment and reject what you have suggested, because I have the impression that you haven't even thought about it, and probably a good part of the MPs and doesn't know what the stock reserves mean, so I suggest you accept this amendment and reject what is proposed by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17173	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) I am putting on the vote by the amendments tabled by MP Dragan Tomic on the 51st floor. For 48, v.94, the abstentions28, did not vote 14, out of 184 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 53rd amendment was submitted by National Envoy Predrag Canovic. Representative, Government and Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There's a word from MP Predrag Canovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17174	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 53. The draft law laying down certain competences of the autonomous province speaks of the autonomous province's competences in the regulation of the field of sport. The Soviet Parliament Group believes that this member is completely unnecessary and that it should be deleted as a whole. In our opinion, there is no reasonable reason to regulate the area of sport for AP territory in a special way. The area must be regulated in exactly the same system way in the territory of the entire Republic, and through a special ministry of sport and youth. Sports is an area that I suppose should bring together people and peoples, not separate them. At least our idea of sports is like that. I'll only read one item in article 53. It's a bill of law. This is point 7) where it is said: "Autonomic province, through its organs, in accordance with the law governing the field of sport: it determines programmes of international sports competitions of interest for autonomous province". Isn't that the takeover of certain state ingenuity? The programme of international sports competitions should probably be regulated by the state through the resolution ministry, which is the sports ministry. It's obvious that the autonomous province is trying to take over some of the state's powers. For this reason, the Assembly Group of the Soviets believes that this member should be completely deleted, so accept our amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17175	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? There is a word from MP Borislav Pelevic, deputy president of the SSK parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17176	Dear citizens of Serbia, the Honorable Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, representatives of NGOs, I believe that the National Assembly should adopt and vote in favour of Dr Canovic's amendment, which was submitted before the Soviet party to Article 53. Proposal for a law on the return of jurisdiction to the AP Vojvodina. This is what I'm saying as a MP and as a sports worker. As you know, there is no sports ministry in Serbia, there is only the Department of Sports at the Ministry of Education and Sports, which is not the same. Of course, it is not the same when it comes to budgeting, which is allocated to certain ministries. The greatest damage is caused by athletes and all those involved in sports and physical culture. It should not be forgotten that last year's sport was our most successful branch. In team sports we became the most successful nation in the world - basketball, handball, volleyball, water polo. And not only in collective, but also in individual sports, we got high in the last year, and thanks only to the enthusiasm of athletes and sports workers. And individual sports, such as kickboxing, karate, shooting and tennis, are located at the top of the world. I believe and again say that the only branch in this country that represents our best export programme is sport. In a situation where we do not have a republican sports ministry, a proposal has appeared which is defined by Article 53 of this bill, where it is foreseen in point 7) that the province determines the programmes of international sports competitions, out of interest for an autonomous province, as if it were a branch that has nothing to do with Serbia and Yugoslavia. Point 9) says "the founding of the province's sports office and establishing conditions for its work", which means that only under a different name, under the name of the institute, is the founding of the province's sports ministry. Does this, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, mean that tomorrow, at the championships of Europe and the world, we will have a representative of the Vojvodina, under our own anthem? A voice from the O.R. Says someone from Vojvodina - so. Okay, but I don't think we'll be able to do it that way. Does this mean that a team of Serbia, the Yugoslav team and the Vojvodina team will participate in the championships of Europe and the world? I hope that it will never come to this, never will, and that is why I really suggest that this amendment be adopted by Dr. Canovic. There is still a black explanation given by the promoter, when he says, "There is no legal basis for centralizing this area" (means of sport), and all the authorities, which have the authorities of the Republic, should be transferred to the territory of the province by the authorities of the province". What it means is, rather than tearing apart a single branch, sports branches, a unique sport, splitting up on several teams, on several ministries, on several alliances. I don't think that's good, and I don't think we should accept that. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17177	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? The word is from MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the DOS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17178	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Mr Pelevic, I will remind you as an athlete that for decades back in this country, sports competitions are being organised at the level of the municipality, the city, the region, the province, the Republic, as well as at the level of the federal state. In Article 53, there is a sentence saying that an autonomous province, through its bodies, in accordance with the law governing the field of sport, assumes on itself the realisation of certain rights, i.e. the availability of rights and the realization of obligations arising from common freedoms. The law has not been amended and therefore you have made a complete mistake seeking an argument for the amendment submitted by your party's representative. There's no point in talking about the Vojvodina team at a time when, at the same time, as an argument to maintain the centralization of our sport, you mention the volleyball team. Just now, Vojvodina or in full sense, Novi Sad has brought all those moments of success and glory to our society, which you are using among other things by trying to defend one of your political views which is legitimate, but which has no foothold in this article. There are talk of sports competitions that are of regional and rural importance. I'm going to remind you of the numerous regattas that are being held every year and that the state has so far not taken care of in the way that the province could, for example, do, given that they are of great importance for the province and for the country of minimal importance. I mean, for example, cycling competitions, races that have been organized over the past few years and have been completely neglected because of a number of problems, not because someone didn't want to worry about them. If the province of its resources, based on this law and the correction made by the Government, provides financial assistance and the realization of a competition, why not make something like that possible, because I think you're wrong when you've served yourself with a very rigid argument, especially because you're engaged in sports and you know that in this society you've always cherished a sports spirit that in itself had a local character. Without that kind of competition, there is no successful sport. I think we need to support this member of the law because he actually affirms that kind of sports competition and organisation, which in itself was in an unfavourable position because of our position that the Republic Sports Ministry must be abolished, which in itself did not pay attention to those areas of sports life that he had to deal with so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17179	Right on line, MP Borislav Pelevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17180	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Jovanovic, it is obvious that you have never engaged in sports and that you do not understand enough sports problems. I have been a sport for a long time, and I am currently a member of the Yugoslav Olympic Committee Presidency and I am very well aware of all the problems in sports in Yugoslavia. I do not dispute what you said, that Vojvodina has made an immense contribution to the development of sports in Serbia. Of course, but as much as all other parts of Serbia. This is about something else. Here, the unity of the state of Serbia wants to tear itself right through sport and it always goes the easiest way. So, I am warning of the danger contained in Article 53, especially points 7 and 9), as well as of the explanation, where it is said that all the information that the Sports Administration today has, or the Ministry of Sport of Serbia, is to be transferred to the province authorities and to the rural sports office, which means the province's sports ministry. That's what I'm pointing at; in any case we, too, have great athletes and sports workers from Vojvodina in all sports branches, and that's how we should stay. Should Serbia's unique sport be torn apart by several alliances, by several ministries, and this is exactly what the bill is about, especially under Article 53, and that's what I've been talking about. The only state is the easiest to split through the split of unique sport, the unique informational activity and everything that moves as a beginning, to end up with some constitutional assembly and making a constitution; because they make a constitution anyway. They create a draft constitution -- 14 parties from Vojvodina and NGOs are building a draft constitution. As you know, the constitution is not a basic act of the province, but a statute is a basic act of the province, and the constitution is a basic act of the Republic; that is what Mr Jovanovic is doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17181	National MP Branislav Ivkovic, president of the SPS parliamentary group, spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17182	Ladies and gentlemen, MP of the Socialist Party of Serbia Mr. Rada Bajic has also submitted the amendment, and I will speak more widely for him, since he is currently absent; I have estimated that at this point it is important to get involved in the debate over the amendment of Mr. Canovic's MP. They are essentially the same, Mr. Rade Bajic and Canovic's amendment, precisely because of the following: when we talk about sports, mostly, each of us has a professional sport in mind. But for one country, for every family, amateur sport plays a more significant role because it raises young people. The youth who turns to sports, the youth who learns from sports, the right to expect that someone can rely on them and that someone can rely on them at a crucial moment, such a youth that develops through sport is a youth who will tomorrow be a quality student, a quality working man, a father of his family and a citizen of this country. It is therefore extremely important for a country to have its own sports ministry in the field of sport. That's why we fought really hard, but we couldn't convince most of the then DOS of 176 MPs, that the Ministry of Sports and Youth must survive. Instead of having the Ministry of Sports and Youth, which at the level of the Republic of Serbia will, above all, care for amateurism in sport, we are now getting a bill of omnibus law, which in Article 53 does not mention the Republic of Serbia, nor the SRJ anywhere, and is simply going towards being fully on the territory of Vojvodina, as part of Serbia, organises, essentially, this kind of social life. The stocking is definitely, the stocking I mean the constitution, the steam to the end of Article 53.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17183	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 55, against 95, with 27 abstentions, 12, 189 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 53rd amendment. Representative, Government and Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. The word is Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17184	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, what are the real intentions of the MEP Assembly's proposal is seen through the field of sport, which was discussed in the previous amendment. In front of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to this article, where we are asking that certain points be deleted, and precisely those points that we consider necessary to delete them from the sports member, speak in favour of what the SRS stands for uninterrupted after this speaker, which is that the Separatist's intention is from Vojvodina to allow himself the future constitutional structure of the northern Serbian province, to carry out secession and to extract the Vojvodina from Serbia's constitutional and legal order. As far as this member is concerned, the proposals are such - secessionist, autonomous, not only speak to these members in which they are asked that in the field of sport, the autonomous province determine whether the conditions for the organisation of sports competitions are met, but also point 7) for which we ask to delete: "Autonomic province, through its organs, according to the law governing the field of sport: it determines the programmes of international sports competitions of interest in the autonomous province". Now I'm going to tell you what we Serbian radicals keep repeating, which is that the interest of citizens in the territory of all Serbia is unique, and so it should be in this area as well. It is absolutely not an exact explanation for which this amendment of the SRS is rejected, and I will explain to you, through several examples, that so far, it is known to all of you that the interests of citizens, individuals and sports clubs from the territory of the AP Vojvodina in the field of sport have been achieved in the context of the republican sports alliances, for each sport individually, and in the context of alliances at the level of the SRJ. Now the question arises, why is this now sought by an autonomous province, if they will say that this is not what we are accusing them of, when so far citizens and sports clubs, therefore individuals, had absolute opportunity to take over sports alliances at the level of the Republic and at the level of the SRJ affirmative. The sport has been so affirmed for decades in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, only if you look at several sports individually will you see that they are not the real intentions of the promoters, as they want to be presented, but through such points as this proposed member asks them to be members of European and world sport associations in due course, such as UEFA, FIBA, FIFA. Now they will first demand to organise sports competitions, and then in this process, they will seek to make Vojvodina a republic of all this. So, sport is so affirmed and AP Vojvodina, clubs and individuals have played such a significant role that, let's say, if you look at the Waterpolo Club "Becay", which works and acted within the Waterpolo Alliance of Yugoslavia, not only has it achieved extraordinary and very great results in international sports competitions, but the Waterpolo Club "Becej", so the city of Becej, the municipality, organised a meeting for the four best water polo clubs in Europe. Let's say, if you look at our handball league, you'll see that half the clubs from Vojvodina are ranked as the best competitors in this sport. For example, the Jugovic Handball Club from Kać, apart from achieving extraordinary results in international sports competitions, had the opportunity to organise significant competitions, acting within the Republic Handball Union. If you look at SPENS, which was built in 1981 for the World Cup, you'll see that no one has moved that big sports center. If you look at that our teams, both youth and first "A" team (Fudball, basketball) went to prepare in Veternik, Palic, organized large sports events where the participation took our "A" team, you will see that there was no neglect of the AP Vojvodina and that things went the other way, in what we are talking about and warning our public. (President: I thank you for your discussion. You're out of time. We are coming to the conclusion that such actions will allow the DoS ruling majority in the Serbian Parliament to autonomists from Vojvodina exactly what you have made possible for Covic. When we talk about sports, while all these things happen in Kosovo and Metohija, where Serbs are a disfigured people, you will also, with the help of your voting machine, give Canka and his separatists the opportunity to arrange each area as they wish. (President: I warn you on time. ) During that time, the Deputy Prime Minister, in charge of Kosovo and Metohija, is recruited through the organisation of basketball tournaments. We understand where Serbia goes with such laws and with such a DOS majority.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17185	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? The word has been made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17186	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I was a sportsman, not exactly top-notch, but I guess that's not what anyone who deals with sports is expecting. In the meantime, I started doing politics, and I'm not a sportsman. I don't think anyone who deals with politics should be a sports worker, and we have such a situation that we're involved in sports and the members of the MIP and that nothing has changed in relation to sports the day the government changed. The worst people in sports are politicians, and maybe the politicians are cops. In an area where the jewel of export affairs, as someone may have called it a little rougher, in an area where huge money turns, as soon as you see a politician, know that there will never be any law, never respecting the law. Sports should be privatised, left to those who want to invest in it; the state to control relations, and where athletes will compete, how their competitions will be organised, whether they will be viewers or not, which would interest politicians, and always those in power. We have politicians here who own entire football clubs. We have politicians here holding football agencies. They're all sitting in the National Assembly and all the important things they decide here, and as soon as it comes out and comes into the range of a mobile phone, it tells who it has to sell, what it costs, and what its percentage is. There's no interest in sports with politicians. He's only interested in making as many votes as possible, inciting children as people who care about them. We don't give a shit which club is gonna make it. The only thing you wear in your heart from a child, as a fan, that's probably all the interest of a politician in sports. Now, the AP Vojvodina Assembly has found itself as a guardian of sports in Vojvodina, and point 1) says: "it determines the interest of citizens (autonomic provinces) "in the field of sport". Two million citizens will now stand before the autonomous province, as before the survey board, which is their interest in sports! Their interest is that children can play sports, that later development is cared for by professional trainers and that a child who is a top talent, when he repays those who have trained him, earns it, because the life of athletes is very short, and the temptations are huge; one injury to a top-notch competition where you are expected to set a world record, deprives you of your entire career; one injury shuts you out of the semi-season in your club and you can no longer make money; no club pays them what the contract commits and lives on promises; the mechanics take money. Now there will be a butcher in Vojvodina. What's Vojvodina gonna do, play some league of his own? Is there going to be quality? At the level of Yugoslavia, you cannot find enough clubs to play in the league in any more serious sport, and now Vojvodina will establish its interest and have a league, or play a league with Hungary, Romania. What if someone in the Vojvodina Assembly finds that it is not the citizens of the autonomous province's interest to play the league with Serbia, but rather to play the league either on their own or to play with someone abroad. If you're going to a game where the Vojvodina clubs and clubs from that second part of Serbia play, you can already hear the wildlings that spread politicians and pass on to the sports field. Just so I don't remind you, that Yugoslavia, a communist, failed first on sports grounds. The first war was fought by fans and never interrupted. Who had the opportunity to watch the play of the Cibona-Partizan basketball game, saw that nothing had changed and that all your kissing with the Croats had fallen into the water at that game. Croatia has arranged for fans to come and massacre Partizan basketball players. Now convince them to play the Adriatic League with the Croats, who welcome them like that. Kutillero also appeared in Vojvodina, and here you are telling stories, adopting amendments, providing quorum. That Boxtillero guy showed up... (President: Mr. Nikolic, I thank you for your discussion and I warn you that you have exceeded the time allowed. ) My discussion certainly didn't get you to thank me for anything, but my discussion was honest and true, just keep playing basketball; one put on a Yugoslavia uniform, and one Serbia, so play, sweat there; the old purgatory like me, fat, show children at that time, spins the ad "fast" cigars, greetings from Rovinj, "ronhil", whiskey shows on all sides...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17187	Mr. Nikolic, time and theme. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the 53rd vote tabled by Natasa Jovanovic. For 49, against 86, with 26 abstentions, he did not vote 21, a total of 182 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to the 53rd amendment. The proposer's representative accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 53rd amendment was submitted by MP Rada Bajic. Representative, Government and Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. The applicant for the amendment is not in the O.R. Does anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) Here you are, MP Branislav Ivkovic, president of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17188	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Rade Bajic is, by the way, one of the most famous athletes in Vojvodina, of course, has a lot of motive to study Article 53 omnibus law. In his amendment, he demanded that points 7 and 10 be deleted, and the essence of the next or more times for this speaker was pointed to the constitutional provisions of Articles 71 and 72 and the area of administrative oversight. Under constitutional provisions, the administrative supervision of the Republic of Serbia cannot transfer any institution to the part of its territory, exclusively it must retain the right, if it wants to be a comprehensive and unified republic, to carry out administrative supervision. And here we have one illogical string. At first, it is said: "Autonomic province, through its organs, in accordance with the law governing the field of sport", so that everything is done simply should be done as a separate state. It is true that it is stated in accordance with the law, and of course it is not stated in what law. It's supposed to be the Republic Sport Act. But, Article 10. The bill says: "executes administrative oversight of the work of organisations and individuals in the field of sport from the territory of the autonomous province. "The result is quite clear. If there is a republican law under which AP Vojvodina authorities will do everything they need to do to determine the interests of citizens from the territory of the province, to the way in which the conditions are determined and met, anything can be considered in the field of sport. If they simultaneously perform administrative surveillance, it will all be completely incompatible with some comprehensive policy. It could be incompatible with the whole policy at the level of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, this amendment is quite clear. This amendment indicates that members 71 and 72 are being violated. The Constitution. In spite of the fact that Article 53 is called upon to act in accordance with the law, at the same time those who are required to act in accordance with the law are placed in the hands of an instrument of administrative supervision, that they themselves assess whether they are acting under the applicable law or not, and not the Republic and the Republic of the Assembly, which adopted that law. Of course, in this whole context, point 7) which speaks of international sports competitions is the point that causes a chill. And in the past 10 years, regional and natural co-operation has been forced between Hungary, Romania and Serbia in Vojvodina. When this international co-operation can take place beyond the republican institutions, and also because of administrative oversight, it can smell of certain internationalisation of events in Vojvodina territory and also in the field of sport. It's just that this is one of the last members trying to change one significant part of the opposition here. You've done a good job with your stocking. You've almost done it to the end. With this article 53, unfortunately, and forestry, and water industry, and livestock, urbanism, spatial planning, and all that domestic state, which the household house leads to at the level of the entire house, and not at the level of the house, has gone away. Don't let this part that's related to a significant social activity, which is and how important it is for the education of future generations to carry this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17189	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for word on this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 51, against 78, with 27 abstentions, 22, a total of 178 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 54th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Gordana Pop-Lazic, Petar Petrovic and Dragan Todorovic. Representative, Government and Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does anyone sign up for a word? Yeah. Here you go. National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17190	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS Parliament Club in principle debate and in the debate on several occasions, it has indicated that we are absolutely against the adoption of a law like this, because it is against the constitution. Only the Constitution can determine the jurisdiction of an autonomous province, but we have reacted to almost all areas treated by this law by amendments. This is the last area of 24 of them and regulated by this law. Article 54 regulates the passing of judicial examinations, where the Autonomous Province is designated as a trusted jurisdiction to regulate the passing of a judicial examination for persons resident in the territory of the Autonomous Province, and to educate the examination committee. We wonder why only for persons who have residences in the territory of the AP Vojvodina? In his explanation, the promoter says this is necessary for reasons of rationality and economics, i.e. to make lawyers closer and cheaper, as Novi Sad is closer than Belgrade, to pass a judicial exam there before the panel in question. That reason is unacceptable and unsustainable. The lawyers from Vrsac, Kovin, Alibnar, and these from, say, Iriga and Mitrovica are much closer to Belgrade than Novi Sad. On the other hand, these in Sapac are closer to Novi Sad than Belgrade. If they wanted something like that, there should have been at least this provision that it was necessary for persons with residence in the territory of the AP Vojvodina to pass the judicial exam in Novi Sad. This is an explanation given by the Proposer, and the Government, as an argument for not accepting the amendments, otherwise we are asking for the full erasure of this Article 54, says the Law on the Judicial Examining and otherwise foreseen that several examination committees can be educated. That's right. There are two committees in Belgrade today, two committees under investigation; there is no reason not to form three or four commissions as much as necessary. We don't see any interference with that committee going, say, to Novi Sadilio Nis, or getting close to those who need to pass a judicial exam. But let us not forget that this commission is being educated in Belgrade, that it is being educated by the Ministry of Justice, and I simply cannot believe that the Ministry of Justice is unable to do such a job, that it happens to overcome this problem, but that it is necessary to fully ratify and worry and transfer that work to the AP Vojvodina on the education of the examination committee and the passing of the judicial exam. That's not the point. The thing is, there's a little bit of money, a little more money, and for those who pass the judicial exam it always costs, and that's a good income for the budget of the AP Vojvodina Assembly. In view of all these areas mentioned in this law, and that, let's say, you even predicted Article 37 that in the field of transport, distribution and use of natural gas, you were educated by the examination committee for passing an expert examination in Novi Sad, then for geological research in the field of mining -- we see that you are in fact preparing the ground for creating a situation that would only be accepted after, possibly, some constitutional changes. For a year now, you've been talking about constitutional changes, although you've promised elections after a year of last election, you've said in a year new democratic elections under your control, to see how the people think and what they want, it's enough for you to show that you're worthy, smart and capable, that Serbia has moved forward, and now we hear again from one camp, President SRJ - needs first elections for a constitutional assembly, and then the changes in the constitution... (President: Theme and Time. ) I'm talking about the subject, of course, and from the second camp, DS, they say there's no need for elections ever again. The people once said, they chose DOS to come to power, to regulate all areas of social life and we don't need elections, even in 2004, when there should be regular elections. So, until the adoption of this new constitution, which hung about a long stick, when, as well as what, everything we need to move to the AP Vojvodina; and you are already here in the discussion, on several occasions, and it bothered me, you have imputed only the name Vojvodina, without the AP prefix, imputing that horror from Serbia, to slowly enter into the ears of citizens that there is a narrow Serbia and that there is a Vojvodina that is not within Serbia, so much easier for the citizens of Serbia to take the moment when you get... (President: Mrs. Pop-Lazic, I warn you of overtime and on the subject. )......................................................................................................... to separate the AP Vojvodina from the composition of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17191	Any of the amendment applicants come forward for a word? National MP Petar Petrovic? No, I don't. National MP Dragan Todorovic? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17192	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm usually visible, but today I'm a stealth, I don't know what's wrong with me. On the occasion of Article 54 in which, in the area of jurisdiction in other areas, it is said, states that: "Autonomic province, through its bodies, in accordance with the law governing the passing of a judicial examination, for persons resident in the territory of the Autonomous Province, educates the Examining Committee and conducts administrative tasks for that committee," in terms of economicity and celery, as stated in the explanation, therefore, it is proposed that the AP Vojvodina educates the examination committee to pass the judicial examination. In this case, it is clear that it is only hidden and packed, namely, that the duchy money remains in the Duke's pocket, that it is only hidden and packaged, that it is a packed desire for Vojvodina to be declared out of Serbia's system, that Vojvodina should not be autonomy, but rather talk about independence and that a system that existed in Vojvodina existed from 1974 to 1990. Let me remind you, during that period, the AP had one such organ, an examination committee, or whatever it was called, to pass a judicial exam. May I remind you, too, that during that period, Vojvodina had many powers from the area of justice to its resources that have been demonstrated, as well as other areas under the 1974 Constitution, as very harmful to Serbia's unity. So it is evident that we should not return to what has already been shown in practice as bad, and therefore our amendment, more specifically, to the SPS amendment that I have submitted, has proposed that Article 54 be deleted. Namely, one frantic fact that I received, asking about the work of the judicial authorities in Vojvodina, is that since 5 October or a little later, in Novi Sad, in the AP Vojvodina, there is already some sort of examination committee and the examination committee for the passing of the judicial exam. From this place I ask, based on whose decision, on what law and on what authority is the commission educated and already working, if it works? This only contributes to the explanation of the the thesis that the DOS has brought only chaos, uncertainty from coming to power in Serbia, and can cost us enormously much. We can also see this by the fact that after a few days of unsuccessful attempt to secure the quorum, you did manage to provide the touch this morning and get the Assembly to start working. It is a sad fact that five, six, seven or eight MPs, regardless of their personal credit or dignity, can decide on such important issues as Serbia's or AP Vojvodina's unity. To remind you, three or four days ago, you failed to secure the quorum, that the trade within DOS itself has reached levels unremembered in the system of parliamentaryism, that factories, more specifically, are building factories, issuing permits to build factories... (President: Please return to the topic, Mr. Todorovic. ) Absolutely, the subject is the adoption of the amendments, and as you know, the Government has submitted thirty amendments, or 29, so, if we're going to support these amendments to the Government, we won't support it, and in the end, when some of the permits were granted, you've provided the parliamentary majority to pass these amendments. So, it is unfortunate that such a trade in the basic vital interests of the Serbian state is happening today when we have a real situation that we can try to make life in our country better, not make it worse. The thesis was that life in Serbia was worse for the 1974 Constitution, and this is an eclectic example of wanting to restore the former system, as I have already said, very, very negative. And finally, I couldn't get the impression that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in Articles 95 to 106, and in Article 109, gave the possibility that the Republic of Serbia, in no case, through this -- omnibus, minibus, bus, to empower the AP, but I made almost a lapus, the republic of the AP Vojvodina, to organise the passing of judicial exams. I also think that unless this amendment is accepted, this is the beginning of breaking the single judicial system in Serbia. (President: I warn you of an excessive amount of time. I thank you for your attention, and I hope you will have an understanding of my arguments.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17193	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? Please, MP Tomislav Nikolic, acting as deputy president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17194	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, for those who do not read the laws - this is about taking a judicial examination for persons who have residence in the territory of an autonomous province, and this is entrusted to an autonomous province, to educate the Examining Committee through its bodies, and to carry out administrative work for that committee. The reason is that it would reduce the costs of candidates living in the territory of an autonomous province, that an autonomous province would need to educate the board, most likely in Novi Sad, perhaps in several cities, and organise the passing of a judicial exam. But that argument falls into the water if we tell you that the current ministry, which educated the laying, which allowed the passing of judicial exams, could also organise the passing of these tests on the territory of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina. There is a Law School in Vojvodina, Vojvodina has great judges, has great lawyers. Why now, suddenly, an autonomous province, to reduce the costs of candidates, educates the commission. (Glasses - what bothers? Here's what bothers you, since you ask - what bothers you. The decommissioning of the Republic of Serbia, its decomposition, is evident and the anti-Vojvodian mood is slowly spreading in Serbia's territory outside Vojvodina. As you spread the anti-black mood, so we who do not live in Vojvodina or Montenegro one day fall dark to the eyes to say: give us a referendum to throw it away as parts of the body that will no longer be with us. Here, you have been so successful in spreading the anti-Montenegro mood, and I think that today most citizens of Serbia, because there is no real information, in a referendum on whether Serbia will live with Montenegro together, decide not to live together with Montenegro, because we are enough to suffer for five years - when Montenegro and Montenegro will always listen and move towards a small brain, as if we are a dinosaur, Serbia is a huge body, the small brain is Montenegro... (President: Mr. Nikolic, please return to the topic. Amendment to Article 54 relating to the passing of a judicial examination. ) You see, if Serbia knew that you would be the speaker of the assembly, you would never vote for DOS. I would never vote for DOS - I guarantee it. (President: Again - you did not return to the subject of the People's Parliament, I warn you... I am going back to the topic because, you see, for Serbia, the president of the assembly is Serbia's image. If, indeed, Serbia must set new criteria and new criteria for you, then it is time for new elections. Why am I warning you about this? You want Vojvodina to literally separate from the narrow part, from the "terrible" of a repugnant Serbia, so as to reduce the number of those who will one day decide whether to live together or not. That's it. Because when you take off eight million as much as there is on this other side, it's going to be very easy... or, six million, it doesn't matter... to be found, at least in certain continents that are filled with autonomous mood, to find the mood to and from such Vojvodina, someone is detaching, and that waits for you in a year or two. Well, then, that the judicial exam is passed especially in Subotica, especially for the members of some nations, and in the languages of some peoples. That's the decomposition. Last night I heard on national television that relations in Vojvodina are extraordinary. That's what Serbia is responsible for. This is due to Serbian laws and the behaviour of all the authorities in Serbia so far. Never ignore that as a fact. When you leave this to these members of the law to the local agos and escapes, you will destroy relations in Vojvodina. Today there are extraordinary relations in Vojvodina. You inherited extraordinary relations in Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17195	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Nobody. I put this amendment to the vote. For 51, against 89, with 19 abstentions, 17, 176 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 55th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Aleksandar Vukic, MP Petar Petrovic and MP Bora Stanimirovic. Representative, Government and Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Do any of the applicants of the amendment want a word? Here's a word from MP Bora Stanimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17196	Ladies and gentlemen, article 55 is a school example of how things can lead to absurdity. Because as it is given, it doesn't mean anything. Namely, it reads, and I would only ask those who follow, who can follow, to see to what extent this member is set up in the style of a rebus: "Autonomous province, through its authorities, in accordance with the rules governing the passing of expert exams for work in the authorities of the state administration for employees in the territory of the province, educates the examination committees and performs administrative tasks for the commission". So you can't practically see what you want from this. What exactly do you want? Is it just about forming a commission or passing an exam? I'm saying he's in shape, and if you shade or cover something, then you get a solution. One part of the text I covered, and then a member could say politely, provided half of the text is reduced: "Autonomic province regulates the passing of expert examinations for work in the authorities of the state administration for employees in the province's territory. ". Everything else - nothing. So whoever wrote this is probably thinking of something else, but one thing that's certainly not about looking for autonomy -- because the very attitude that says that only applies to citizens living in the province's territory, that they can form commissions, because now we've come to a solution to this rebus and it's a professional exam, then it means that it's only for the people of Vojvodina. So it's not about autonomy, it's about closing up in tight frames, and we, as you know, filmed it in 1974, watched it, and I think every investment in some new project for a similar movie isn't worth it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17197	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Here's a word from MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17198	First, the question arises - and why members of 54 and 55 are regulated to pass judicial exams and exams for the work of the authorities of the state administration for persons employed in the territory of an autonomous province. You'd think someone would have had those exams as much as they had kids enrolled in first grade primary school. There isn't. That's not true. There is no economic justification for the education of special commissions at all. It has the right to allow those who agree to do so to cost them cheaper, but to allow them to go wherever they want, to make sure that whoever establishes the commissions, who forms them and educates them is one unique one, that the representatives of the autonomous province are represented and that there is indeed something that is unique, which is no longer discussed at all. They shall be tested at that time; and then they shall be placed in: The New Market, the King, the Kragujevac, the New Sad, Somboru, what does it matter? There's a unique register, a unique program. Persons who can be interrogators in a single register at the water ministry, and ultimately, are we going to evaluate differently now those who pass an AP exam in front of its commission and those who pass before the government of the Republic of Serbia? There have been stories about it in our parliamentary group, in a funny tone, what if we give the amendment to those who pass the AP exam, in front of their commission, that exam doesn't apply here? As soon as Vojvodina doesn't respond, the exam to be passed before the authorities of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is in place, and what would this exam now apply in the opposite direction? Well then it's secession, then it's separation, decommissioning of one tissue, one organism, one state administration, one judiciary. Still independent of the judiciary, you are not paying attention to it, and why would Serbia's Supreme Court not form a judicial committee? What's the Justice Department doing anyway, where'd it come from? Now Vojvodina doesn't have such a court, so it moves to state authorities, just so someone can't say -- here's the Supreme Court of Serbia, he's in Belgrade. You will also be bothered by the institutions in Belgrade. It catches you slowly, like a virus. It takes a piece of your body's territory. And if you don't think about it normally and if you don't think about it in a state-of-the-art way, and you're all boasting that you belong to state-owned parties, then it's going to turn into a disease, then you're going to start hating everything that comes from Belgrade. We were few when we were attacked by members of others, now other states, other republics. Now we need to go to war here, too, within Serbia? And that's how it starts, so in a milder form it started in SFRY, in a much lighter form. If someone could have guessed what it was going to lead to, they'd have cut it a lot sooner. So I invite you to cut it here among yourselves now, while it's early and it's time to cut it. Anything that can be subdued by self-government, anything that can be taken under the concept of decentralisation, is welcome, and anything that is under the notion of secession and separation, is not welcome, you have to cut it. As you cut the opposition, go to cut down the enemies of this country, or at least this Republic of Serbia, and you are brave only when you cut down the opposition, or those you think will soon be their opposition.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17199	Is anyone else answering for word on this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 48, against 84, with 19 abstentions, 17, a total of 168 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to the 56th amendment. The proposing representative accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 56th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic. Representative, Government and Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the bearer want a word? There's a word from MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17200	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, a member of the 56th Amendment, reads: "Autonomic province, through its authorities, in accordance with the law governing the seal of state and other bodies: 1) it is closer to the content and appearance of the seals of the province's authorities, the authorities of the units of local self-government and legal entities that exercise administrative authority and have seats in the territory of the autonomous province; 2) it gives consent to the content and appearance of the seal. The job of point 1(2) is carried out as confidential." The amendment to the SRS, which I'm explaining, we're asking to be in Article 56. Paragraph 2 of the draft law is deleted. We think it's necessary to make this change, because it's business that cannot be trusted in an autonomous province, because of its importance. We already have a law that regulates what should be the seal of an autonomous province and a unit of local self-government, and we really don't understand what needs to be changed in that seal? Those who advocate the separation of the Vojvodina, the separatists, think that it should be written perhaps by the state of Vojvodina or the Republic of Vojvodina, or maybe it's still self-government in their heads, so it should be self-administrative AP? They have already appeared in the use of seals containing the drew borders of the AP, and we really do not understand that this is the only way to go to Europe? Serbian radicals believed that Europe had better standards, better salaries, better education, better health care. It is not clear to us that this is all that is still necessary - to allow Vojvodina to create its own seal, to print itself what they think should be written, to come to Europe. We thought it was going to Europe by solving cases of missing persons, murdered people, abducted Serbs from Kosovo. But here, we see that we are going to Europe by liberating the Ship's terrorists from our prisons, and in return, they are giving us lists of killed Serbs, who were led missing by yesterday. And indeed, it is high time that we don't go over these members of the law lightly, through amendments proposed by the SRS MPs, because it seems to you that it's a little bit, insignificant, that it's nothing, and then, I'm afraid it doesn't happen to us once, as one MP, the autonomist, who is sitting here today -- while you turn around, Vojvodina will be far away and not be in Serbia. It is time to prevent and adopt the amendments that we propose and which we are today heartily defending here. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I urge you to vote for the SRS amendment on Article 56. It's a bill of law.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17201	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? There is a word from MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17202	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, through Article 56, the absurdity of the bill and the terrible desire of the proposings, which the Serbian government has failed to block and introduce into constitutional and legal frameworks. Let me remind you, and those of you who do not read the Bill's proposal to get to know, that this article provides that the autonomous province is closer to the content and appearance of the seal of the province's authorities, the authorities of the unit of local self-government and legal persons who exercise administrative authority, and have a seat in the territory of the autonomous province, and point 2) - gives consent to the content and appearance of the seal. Article 2 says that the work referred to in point (2) is carried out as confidential. There's an explanation in our people when total power is taken over, then it's usually said - cadiya sues you, cadiya judges you. Look at this member of the law - an autonomous province edits the content, form, appearance and size of the seal, and then gives consent to the stamp. Is there any control there? Is it still somewhere that whoever determines what it should look like in the last instance and determines if it's done what it's supposed to look like? And who will be complained to by the authority of the Autonomous Province who is not granted the seal, even if it is in accordance with the conditions that he himself has set? Or who will stop the shape of a seal that does not comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and with the laws, if the autonomous province gives consent to such a seal? We, by amendment, went to the position of the 2nd member and said that it was deleted, that the law looks like what it should look like, this position 2 would not exist. The whole law would refer to tasks that are exclusively entrusted. I remind you once again, by law we can only determine which jobs are entrusted, and that means we do not need to single out individual views or individual members of this law. The law should include matters that are to be trusted. The Statute of the Autonomous Province determines which tasks are the jurisdiction of the Autonomous Province. The law does not interfere, nor can nor dare the National Assembly, by marking a business as trusted, that some others establish as a business that is the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina. That's not our job. It is our job to establish, for all the jobs that, following this law, are being carried out in the territory of the autonomous province, that they are entrusted, for all jobs, and for the statutes of the AP and the Constitution of Serbia to determine which tasks are the jurisdiction of the autonomous province. Therefore, it could indeed be an autonomous province as a trusted business to determine the appearance of the seal and to give consent to the seal, but this applies to all 70 members of this bill, all of them are entrusted to the business. That's why we've changed the name of the law and asked it to be a bill of trust in certain matters to the Autonomous province, since it's our option and our jurisdiction. What the National Assembly has dared to assess to the autonomous province what its jurisdiction is, and what its loyal work is, is our interference with what we have no right to. The bill before Serbia's Constitutional Court when it is established, and when we don't know it, will surely be established one day, will bring down the first driver of the constitutional assessment initiative. That's quite clear, but you're moving on, pushing. The doors are not only locked, they're walled, and you, with our heads, people's heads, you hit that door, and you stand by and wait when one head snaps to replace the other, and you count the traps, that door will be opened one day. In an anti-constitutional way, laws are not passed. There is no law-abiding state. You should know that if you've read at least one book in political theory.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17203	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 34, against 81, with 20 abstentions, 19, a total of 153 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 57th Amendment were submitted by MP Petar Jojic, MP Zoran D. Nikolic and joint MPs Jovan Deretic and Zoran Novakovic. Representative, Government and Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17204	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this proposal to introduce a new institute in our legal practice as an Ombudsman is destroying the single legal system and the SRJ, as well as the Republic of Serbia. The Serbian Radical Party has proposed, in the light of the SRJ Constitution and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, that the institute is not envisaged and cannot be entrusted in any case, or cannot be established in the AP Vojvodina as one of the institutes in the legal system. When it comes to the institution, it should be said that the Ombudsman is a member elected by parliament, with the task of controlling and overseeing the work of the government's authority and as a guardian of citizens' rights, he has his roots in the distant past. First of all, the Ombudsman first appeared in China when they were so-called. Mandarins who protected the rights of citizens, and later the Ombudsman appeared as an institution, founded in Sweden in 1809, so that later other countries, such as New Zealand, Switzerland, Finland, Norway, Denmark, the United States, Great Britain and some other country, would introduce the name ombudsman. Since the Ombudsman is an institution established and elected by parliament, there is no saying that the Ombudsman can now establish fire-fighting voluntary societies or local communities. The basic properties and institutions of the Ombudsman are: first, he is the authority of parliament in whose name controls the work of the Authority of Administration; second, he is not in any way affected by any work, but in the existing, decision-making and surveillance; third, he is not authorized to amend or abolish the acts of the Authority of the Administration; he can only express opinions, convince, criticise and advise, to seek the removal of the deficiencies and possibly require the punishment of the guilty; fourth, the Ombudsman is only one in a series of bodies that supervises the legality of the work of the administration, but is the only one who, to some extent, the price and integrity of this body, indulges in the case and in the assessment of the use of discretionary powers. It is an organ for which citizens can easily, without special formalities and without costs, address for rapid and effective intervention. On the other hand, he is authorized to act on his own initiative. In their work ombudsman mostly concentrates on examining relatively small cases, minor errors in the work of the authorities and officials. He hardly ever intervenes over major and obvious violations of the law, or the rights of citizens. Such infringements fall under jurisdiction and excludes the rights of competent courts. Its tasks are much more subtle in nature and consist of taking a stand, giving an opinion and criticising a large number of minor violations of rights and justice, taken together can be of a significant negative impact on the work of the authorities and officials. The role of the Ombudsman is basically double. On the one hand, it should be the protector of the rights of citizens, and on the other hand, its existence is at the same time in the interests of the state and its authorities. So, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the Constitution of the SRJ do not yet prescribe this institute and mythical institute, so when the SRJ has it and when we have that institution in the constitution, when it is prescribed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia then we can talk, but only about the state republican Ombudsman. This right is not transferable and cannot, as a previous issue for the achievement of autonomous interests, be immediately formed by their Ombudsman so that he can later take control of the authorities of the administration and exclude the supervision of the republican authorities. (President: six minutes. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if we want to go to Europe, we can't do it like this. Without the pirates and the Serbian flute, we cannot go to Europe.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17205	The word has the People's MP Zoran D. Nikolic, as an applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17206	I will not repeat what Honorable counterpart Jojic was saying about this article, but I will only say that there are numerous constitutional and fundamental reasons for this amendment to be adopted, i.e. to accept the erasure of Article 57. The bill also erases the Ombudsman institute from this bill. The first reason is contained in Article 111. The Constitution, since the authorities of the autonomous province are a constitutional category, not a legal category. The constitution says these are the Assembly, the executive and the regional authorities of the administration. So the Republic cannot transpose something that is not in its legislation, but is part of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Without amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the jurisdiction of the Republic, which it, de facto, does not, cannot be transferred. That's one reason. The second reason relates to many other members of this bill. In Article 69(4), point (b) is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has been established that the regulation establishing the commitments for the budget cannot be passed unless the previous body that adopts the relevant act finds that funds are provided for the implementation of those commitments. It's obviously a new organ, and it's obvious that this body is going to be spending some money, and it's obvious that there's no meaning in this law about these means. So, another reason, contained in the Constitution, which is why this amendment should be accepted. Otherwise, our practice knows the institution of the Ombudsman. I remind you that in the 1974 Constitution, we had an institution with similar powers, which is the famous social defender of self-government. We see here, in fact, the proposal's intention, as well as in other members, to carry out this bill by revising or reviving certain constitutional solutions from 1974, which, as we know, were generators of the disintegration of the previous SFRY. For these reasons, I believe that the only correct solution by the Assembly is to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17207	Do any of the amendment applicants want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Jovan Deretic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17208	The Honorable Presidency, dear colleagues, we have submitted an amendment to this article of the bill, because we believe that what is proposed cannot fit into our legal system. It's not allowed under our Constitution. That's the first one. Secondly, the function, as they have translated it -- the civil defender, cannot have an autonomous province, can only have SRJ or the Republic of Serbia. That's two reasons. The third reason is because we consider this to be something of an ephemeral stimuli. There are enough expressions in our language to qualify every function. We don't have to enter these barbarisms where we break language when we have to say them. We have an example of a tender that came into use with us. Fourth, the meaning of that word in English. But it didn't matter to them. It is important that as many of these foreign language expressions come into Serbian as possible, as we approach Europe. It is very interesting that of the 168 amendments submitted by the MPs to the bill, not only the legislator, but also the Government of the Republic of Serbia did not accept one single one, which tells us that some agreement has been made behind the back of this parliament between Mr Canka and Djindjic on the breaking of the Republic of Serbia. It's on your conscience whether you support this or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17209	According to Article 84(2) and Article 220(1), which allow me to address the People's MP after the presentation, because of the misinformation to the National Assembly, I would like to inform that the Government has accepted the amendment of MP Dragan Cholic and the amendment of MP Dragan Markovic to Member 49, MP Sreten Mitrovica, as member of the 69th and MP Đura Lazic, as member of the 70th People's Parliament, which was written in writing by Jovan Deretic. Do any of the other authorised participants in this debate want a word? The word has been made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17210	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is "saw a frog soaring, so lift her foot." (Milka Marinkovic: Warning. ) Milka, when you lead the congregation, I hope that I will never be a messenger of the people again. If the Assembly comes to the fact that after Micic you run the Assembly, then we don't need any MPs. (President: I ask the People's MPs and speakers not to speak to each other. I am not a speaker for you, I am still a messenger for you. This isn't Hyde Park, this is the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the question arises from the democratic government, which will take care of the highest ideals, the highest degree of democracy in society, the idea that citizens will need a lawyer against such a government. What will a lawyer do when you Europe is moved to Serbia? You've implanted the most beautiful from Europe in Serbia. There, the citizens go down the street and sing. You'll insult them by suggesting that you give them a lawyer to defend them from you. Well, what of you to defend them, when you're wonderful, you're golden. Here, you won three or four votes in the local elections in Kickinda, where you had a councilman who resigned. In the Republic of Serbia, of course, such an institution does not exist. You don't say here that this job to the Duke is classified as confidential. I warn you once again, this was the assembly of the AP Vojvodina, with its amendment, that it could enter into the Statute of the AP Vojvodina and therefore only seek the consent of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, consent to that amendment. This is not the matter to be found in the bill, in front of the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. This is the Duke's own office. It would be as if you had told us there in the field of sports - autonomous province is approved to have a basketball team and to determine who will be the selector. There are natural things that local self-government, autonomy, the Republic will solve on the basis of its statutes or the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and no one else should interfere. Why now the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia writes that Vojvodina will have an Ombudsman when it is not a entrusted job. Why don't you write down how many acres of land and what culture the Vojvodina will sow? It's the same to you in the same relationship. And that's not our job. Why are we getting involved in a business that isn't ours? So someone out there could say, look, these crumbs around our lawyers, that's the AP Duke's job. Who will defend his citizens from himself, give them the Ombudsman. Let him give 1,500 ombudsmans and fund them from the budget. If one day someone is going to say, the autonomous province has been financially ruined, the National Assembly has forced them to have an ombudsman. Shall we now also set aside funds for the autonomous province of Serbia's budget, that it builds such an institution or not. You will, you've got so much to do, so much to do, so much to start with, the hour of choice distracted him. That's obvious. Your attitude to the sessions at which this bill is being discussed is sufficient for me to know how much you are essentially against this bill. Let's just do what you're for once in this assembly and vote for what you really are. Don't vote for what you're not, just because you have some obligations to anyone. Yesterday I heard that even these worst autonomists now accept the bill and accept it with all the amendments made by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Are you the automovers or not? What kind of autonomists are you? Let me understand these things that don't defend Serbia, they never said they'd defend it. You said you were going to attack, you decided to stop at half-night. I'm starting to lose all political will with you to compete. One day I have a goal, I see what your wish is... (President: 5 minutes 30 seconds. )......................................................................................................... I'm just getting ready, you change that goal, you turn it completely for 1800, the fight with you becomes pointless, because the light weapons aren't ready for everyone. I thought we radical weapons arsenals used on a strong political rival, and you turned out to be people who don't deserve our weapons at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17211	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? The basis for the replica? (Milka Marinkovic, from the place: Replica, mentioning in a negative context. He mentioned only a name, and I also warned the MP who was a speaker and all of us in the benches not to answer. There's no basis for replication. Thank you. Do any of the authorized participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 38, against 74, with 25 abstentions, was not voted 29, a total of 166 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 58th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Deretic and Zoran Novakovic. Representative, Government and Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17212	The Honorable Presidency, dear colleagues, here we are again with a member of the bill that is unsustainable. In our case-law, the court interpreters appointed the Republic, in fact, the Ministry of Justice. They're asking for the right to name court interpreters. This does not fit our case-law or the practice of the Western European countries. I used to be a court interpreter in France, and my appointment was decided by a court of law. It's not a ministry. It was in the jurisdiction of the courts. You really don't know what this proposal is about. Is it just to take off another function to the Republic of Serbia or to want something else or third. Like all these members of the law who have tails and last intentions, the whole bill is the last intention. I think this member should be deleted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17213	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 18, against 80 abstentions, 19 did not vote 22, a total of 139 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 59th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic. The representative proposes, the Government and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17214	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 59 is another example that this law seeks to make the AP Vojvodina truly become and receive a call of statehood. The proposed member is hereby authorised by the Autonomous Province through its authorities to decide, in accordance with the law, by appeal and against the settlement of municipalities in the territory of the Autonomous Province, as proposed for expropriation, as well as to resolve the proposal and the authorisation to carry out preparatory actions in the process of expropriation in the territory of the Autonomous Province. In an explanation, in which the AP Vojvodina is proposed such a function, it comes from the fact that there are a large number of cases in the area of the autonomous province being solved in the first degree in the field of expropriation and that the second-degree body of the ministry is responsible for finance affairs. Autonomous province is believed to be able to resolve these cases professionally and in good time through its organs. I must conclude that in the last 4-5 years in Serbia, even in the AP, the expropriation of Vojvodina has practically died. So giving these powers to the Duke really doesn't make me see it as meaningful. That's why I submitted an amendment to delete article 59. However, in light of the reasons why the Government has not accepted my amendment, it is said: this solution is in line with Article 109, Article 2. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, according to which these transactions are entrusted to the authorities of the autonomous province. Let me read you that point 2. "The Republic of Serbia can, by law, entrust the Autonomous province with doing certain tasks under its rights and duties and transfer funds to it for these jobs." To remind you that the applicable law in the field of expropriation of the Expropriation Act since 28 December 1995, which clearly states the procedure for which expropriation can be carried out, who may be the proponent of expropriation, but who is the one who decides on the existence or absence of general interest in the expropriation of immovableity. Therefore, in this law, Article 2 says: the general interest in the expropriation of immovableity is determined by the law or decision of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I am potential again - the governments of the Republic of Serbia. In particular, this provision, more specifically Article 59, is directly contrary to the provisions of the Expropriation Act, which in Article 29 regulates that, by appeal against the first-degree solution made under the request for expropriation, the Ministry of Finance's jurisdiction. So, at the same time, we have a valid Expropriation Act that has not changed and proposed a solution that, in practice, leads to a senseless state of the provisions of this Law. Therefore, we have proposed a logical solution - that this article is deleted, and I don't think it should be specifically explained; if the republican authorities establish a general interest under the proposal of an authorised applicant for expropriation, it is indeed logical that, even by complaints against the solutions of the property-legal bodies of municipalities in the cases adopted under the proposal for expropriation, the Ministry of Finance as a republican body and that it is really illogical that such authority is given to the AP Vojvodina. However, since you seem to care as a congregation majority about the rule of law as to last year's snow, which you have shown on account of my previous amendment to Article 54, when I publicly called the Ministry of Justice and Local Self-Government and those who are members of the so-called Parliament. I will also call on Minister Batic to say, on the basis of which he has reached a solution to authorise the passing of judicial exams in the AP Vojvodina, as well as an esteemed colleague of Sikimic, who, as far as I have heard, is one of the members (requestors) of the Committee. Since you have also proved in this case that you do not care about the rule of law, but that the sole objective of this omnibus law is to create conditions for statehood and to break Serbia as a single continent, based on the 1990 Constitution, you are aimed at returning many solutions to the 1974 Constitution. Again, we Socialists are not against the AP Vojvodina, but we are absolutely not for some solution, including this, which exceeds the framework of autonomy and which lies within the jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17215	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 10, against 95, with 12 abstentions, there was no vote of 16, a total of 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to the 59th amendment. The proposer's representative accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Members of the 60th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Deretic and Zoran Novakovic. Representative, Government and Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. The word has been made by MP Zoran Novakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17216	Dear citizens of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is one in a number of those members that we consider to be not only a surplus, but that they are a conglomerate of what it has caused, based on the amendment of the Serbian government, the general disenfranchisement of this bill. It's a miracle that the proposer of this law finally doesn't have the courage to withdraw such a bill. For the sake of the public, I will read the entire proposal of Article 60, which says: "Autonomic province, through its bodies, in accordance with the law governing the area of local self-government, gives an opinion on proposals for the establishment of new units of local self-government, the abolition or merger of existing, change-border and local self-government units in the territory of the autonomous province." It is clear enough what the objective of this proposal is, so we only have to suggest that this member be permanently deleted. Why? We really don't know what the next item of the agenda will bring, and that's the proposal for a law on local self-government. We believe that everything contained in this article should only be contained in the law on local self-government. That's another proof, in a series of what we've stated, that at least half of the proposed members are an absolute surplus and that there's still time for the proposer to withdraw this bill, so that he doesn't come into a situation to reject the bill for all of these reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17217	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate applying for a word on this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 7, versus 97, with 14 abstentions, there were no 11 votes, a total of 129 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 61st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Deretic and Zoran Novakovic. Representative, Government and Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does a representative of the applicants of the amendment want a word? Here you are, MP Zoran Novakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17218	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will not be obliged to, given that the game of the case is subject to amendments one after the other, but in Article 61, for the sake of the public, the position of 2nd is said to be that the Autonomous province, in accordance with the law, is carrying out administrative supervision from the authority of the ministry responsible for the management of the work of the association in the territory of the Autonomous Province. The tasks referred to in point (2) of Article 1 shall be carried out as entrusted transactions. Another in a series of members that are completely, in our opinion, pointless and we suggest that they be deleted in full. This is, at the very least, about the seriousness, the objectives of the promoters and all the things we have been trying to say here for days and colleagues to the MPs, who either won't listen to what we're proposing, or it's a matter of what we express that proper trade has been done between DOS coalition partners. All these days, I've heard smokers who say unequivocally that the people of Vojvodina don't know what the word omnibus means, what the omnibus law says, that over 50% of the citizens have no idea what the proposer wants to propose. I think it's another valid proof, that once again during the day, to think about not letting your descendants call you tomorrow, I want to know how, say, the Shumadins voted for the AP Vojvodina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17219	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Nobody. (Glasses - determine the quorum. I put this amendment to the vote. For 5, against 100, with 13 abstentions, 10 did not vote, a total of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 61st Amendment was submitted by MP Joca Arsic. Representative, Government and Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here's a word from MP Joca Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17220	Ladies and gentlemen of the esteemed colleagues, I have submitted an amendment to Article 61, which I suggest is deleted in Article 61(2). The government did not accept this amendment with an explanation that it was an article. 109. The constitution provides that these jobs can be entrusted to an autonomous province. What is strange and why I have come to explain my amendment is the government's argument in similar trusts when it comes to amendments submitted by some of the MPs to Article 42, which is to introduce inspection supervision, to carry out administrative and inspection surveillance. In an explanation for the refusal of this amendment, the government has stated that it does not accept the amendment. According to Article 11. The law on the state administration of the ministry performs administrative supervision which may be - supervision of the legality of the work of companies, institutions and other organisations; supervision of the legality of the activities of enterprises, institutions and other organisations; when they, by law, resolve rights, obligations and rights and the interests of citizens and legal persons and trust inspection supervision. According to Article 14 of the same law, the Ministry's inspection supervision is made with direct insight - please pay attention to this - in the business and business procedures, institutions and citizens with regard to compliance with the rules, express administrative measures and take other actions for which they are authorised by law. It is obvious that the government and the ministries were not completely in agreement when it comes to accepting or rejecting certain amendments, so it is here for the exact opposite reason, and we heard the minister's argument, in accordance with the law, that administrative oversight can be entrusted, and later it is not possible. One amendment is rejected for that reason, and the other amendment is accepted. Therefore, one colour is introduced, this concerns also Article 16 of this Law and Amendment 5, which was submitted by the Government, which was not accepted by the Assembly, and the amendment is currently referring to the amendment and erasure of point 13), where administrative supervision is foreseen. The president explained that this is in line with the current Rules of Procedure and that it is possible to perform such actions. Normally, a large number of MPs disagree with that, but here is the majority, and it has decided on that and decided - to accept the amendment, although it was rejected by this assembly, because it was allegedly accepted by the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina. It is also touched here by one right that the departments have, and it is regulated by Article 94. The Constitution, where it is clear, as a right, gives government and its ministries to control the implementation of the laws that the Assembly adopts. Since this assembly adopts this law, it is normal for the Government to exercise control, administrative oversight of the implementation of this law, and thus also for this Article 61, otherwise it is exclusively in the first and second parts of itself. Therefore, a mistake has been made here, by rejecting this amendment, given the right to exercise administrative and other control over the implementation of these regulations by this assembly, i.e. to exercise control - the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina. That would be mildly said, and in a clean case explained, it looks like this -- trust the vichobanine to guard the sheep, with you have no right to count them, to measure them, to see the effect of his work. This kind of solution just seems one of those things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17221	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Nobody. I put this amendment to the vote. For four, against 103, abstention 14, 9 of the 130 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Bozidar Vucurovic submitted to the 61st amendment. Representative, Government and Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here's a word from the People's MP Bozidar Vucurovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17222	Madam Chairman, I can see that there are 130 cards here, but I don't see that there are 130 MPs, so I'd like to ask you to establish a quorum before I start speaking, because this brilliant exposure is really a shame not to listen. (Glasses - listing. After that, normally, to provide a listing. Please establish the quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17223	Please, you've been given the word to discuss the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17224	I won't speak until you determine the quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17225	All right, please step away from the pay phone. At the request of MP Bozidar Vukurovic, please check the quorum; insert identification cards into the MPs' units. I'm guessing we have a quorum. At the same time, I ask the service to provide a computer copy for the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group. Here you go, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17226	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, member of the 61st draft law, reads: "Autonomous province, in accordance with the law: 1) regulates the use of the name of an autonomous province in the name of an association; 2) performs administrative supervision from the authority of the ministry responsible for the management of the work of the association in the territory of the Autonomous Province. Paragraph 2 states that the dealings referred to in point 2 of point 1 of this article are done as trusted. Since the beginning of the debate in particular in this law and in the debate in principle, we have pointed out that the name of the law itself is wrong. That is, the name of the law should be - a bill on the confidence of certain competences of the Autonomous province, not a proposal for a law establishing jurisdiction, because the transactions referred to in point 1) of Article 1 have so far been in the jurisdiction of the Autonomous Province. He wasn't the only one in charge of surveillance. The Assembly of the Republic of Serbia cannot trust administrative supervision from the management department's jurisdiction and I am very surprised that there is no further four times as much jurisdiction here, because then point 2) of Article 1 would be much clearer. Now, if the AP decides to approve that the association of rare bird lovers is called Vojvodina, then administrative oversight of rare birds is likely to be done by the Minister of Agriculture. So far, this association of rare bird lovers has been called the "King Crescent", and will now be called the "King Crescent of Vojvodina" and will then be controlled, administratively, normally, by a traffic minister. The surveillance, as we once said, will only cover for certain amounts of their money, according to Nenad Canak, to return to Vojvodina. And we said -- and the budget is necessary, the surveillance is thin, and we're filling up the balance so he doesn't get sad. So the MPs in this assembly were chosen by the people to enforce the Constitution. They were not chosen to grant an unconstitutional right of administrative oversight from the department's jurisdiction over the management of the work of the competent associations, in the competent territory, of the competent AP Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17227	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? There is a word from MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17228	If you accept the bill with this article 61, it turns out that only an autonomous province has the right to regulate the use of the name autonomous province. What self-defense of the autonomous province and from whom, and what it means now - if someone wants to use the name of their association the name of the autonomous province, it must be approved by an autonomous province. As far as you're going to go with the construction of a country in the territory of an autonomous province and think exclusively of the AP Vojvodina, how far do you think you're going, what does that mean, now in the autonomous province, you don't even say - through the competent authority, according to the law, you don't even use the floscule, which you used within all the members of the law, but you say - the autonomous province regulates the use of the name autonomous province. Don't let anyone accidentally take our name AP in the name of the association without being in agreement with the Doss of Vojvodina, don't let anyone from the opposition start an association in which the name of Vojvodina is not going to be, we'll control what the name of Vojvodina is used, and now we'll see what we'll do with Shumadia, so what about Podrinj, so what about Jadro? The teamland, I'm really sorry, I know you have these aspirations, too, how far do you really want to go to rip? This isn't a cut, it's a rip, it's a pull, it's a pull, it's a pull, it's a tear. There are no stitches here, this is never patched up and put together, this is a unique continent, this is going to shoot, not on the seams, at least in a way correct, but as it gets torn off, how it's strong forces that pull out of the axle. Now there's going to be an organ in the autonomous province, so to say, an association is established, someone wants to use our name; what do we do: do we let them use or not? And it will depend on most of that day, of which the parties are in the majority of those who decide - whether they will be called or not, and some association will receive the right, for it will not be suspected by an autonomous province that they will abuse, but someone else will not be entitled. Because it doesn't say here - in accordance with the law, in accordance with the statutes, in accordance with the regulations. Nothing. Autonomous province decides. You've gone too far. It's seemingly petty, and every member sees the desire and the pronoun, and the permissiveness of the one who should tell him, "Wait a minute, let's see what you're doing and where it leads you, and what am I going to give you votes for it?" Let's advance, agricultural production, let me give you votes for it, let's make it possible for people in Vojvodina to live better, to give you votes for it. Is the name Vojvodina going to be used, and who will be able to use it, will there be a Vojvodina consulate in Shumadia, and will there be a consulate of Shumadia in Vojvodina? You'd say someone -- they're playing little kids. But, you know, when little kids grow up, so when they play, they can do anything. It's obviously an example for you. You're not up to this job, you're driven by interests that can't run people who save the fate of the state at all. You're being run by a store. You've been trading again tonight, you've been trading again every time, and whenever I see who the MPs are in the O.R., I know that either they were blackmailed that night or they got something, but that's why they'll be blackmailed next time.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17229	Mr. Nikolic, I warn you to get back on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17230	It's a trade between political parties in the National Assembly, it's a topic of agenda, an obvious trade that all journalists have noticed, and those who have self-censorship, and they write about it openly. It's a real theme in this congregation.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17231	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 39, against 100, abstentioned 18, he did not vote 8, a total of 165 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. They submitted to Article 63 of the amendment, in the same text: Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic, MP Hranislav Peric and joint MPs Jovan Deretic and Zoran Novakovic. Representative, Government and Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Do the applicants of the Amandam want a word? He has the word National MP Milorad Mircic, the applicant for the amendment to Article 63. It's a bill of law.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17232	In principle, in Article 63, there is one illogicality. This illogicality is that the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina proposes a network of courts and it is examined in the fact that a lower body is proposing to a higher body, and the higher body is tasked with carrying out the proposal. It's one illogicality that's never been seen before. What is and how important, by looking at this member of the bill, and essentially the full law, that is how this proposal came into being. It was created, as the proposer put it, based on the will and mood of the people of Vojvodina. He forgot to say that this was the current mood, the current political mood of the people of Vojvodina, that most of the Vojvodina Assembly had DOS, and that current mood must not be interpreted, nor can it be interpreted as a permanent definition of citizens living in Vojvodina. You, gentlemen, have abused this current political mood, which is variable and then set off, as you say, in radical roots or root democratic changes, by preparing for the future constitution of the Vojvodina. When we Serbian radicals warn you through amendments that aim to change the basic meanings of this anti-Constitutional bill, when we Serbian radicals warn you of it, you are prepared for everything and even go so far as to take away the presidency, and in doing so, it says fine. It's no wonder, nor is it surprising for those of us who live in the Vojvodina's bill of law. Such a bill came out, clearly, out of the will of the majority currently in the Vojvodina Assembly, the will of the majority who always claims to reflect or reflect the true political will of the people of Vojvodina. If that's true, gentlemen, and you remember the promises to the citizens of Serbia and Vojvodina that you'll call the elections after a year and a half, why didn't you call an election before you passed this bill to check the will of those citizens? It's not your idea to do this, but to prepare a new draft constitution. This was recently said by one of the leaders of the duchy parties and confirmed to the public that a new platform, namely a new draft constitution, would form the basis for these proposed legal members to continue to operate as an independent federal unit of Vojvodina. Gentlemen, you must understand that in the next election, no matter where it will be, there will be clearly a different relationship between strength and not only in the Republic parliament, but in the duchy parliament. What are you going to do when this law changes, then what are you going to do? Will they then seek you, as some ask, to internationalise the issues of the Vojvodina? Now tell us clearly what awaits us. Do not throw dust into the people's eyes with a story that these are democratic principles, that this is the will of the people, that the majority that is now in the Assembly of the Vojvodina is a reflection of the will of the people. It all falls into your water. It's true, like DOS you've got trust, but gentlemen like DOS obviously that you've split up. You had 800,000 votes in Vojvodina in the province elections. Share 800,000 votes with the number of members in the DOS coalition, that's 18, so you'll see how many parties each carry, how many votes. We, the Serbian radicals, had 110,000 votes individually. As the party, we had the most votes. A concrete proposal, except for this amendment, after you have given the Vojvodina Assembly to the province of Vojvodina to determine the network of schools, courts, and a network of monasteries and churches, so it will be complete. It's not foreign to them, and they've destroyed churches before, and they haven't walled a single one.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17233	The word has been given by MP Hranislav Peric, who submits amendments to Article 63.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17234	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, given that you have not accepted any amendment that could have corrected the law, where it could have prevented the fact that some of the ambassadors from Vojvodina were speaking for this speaker, this is only the first step in achieving the goal of Vojvodina becoming a republic and then a state. All of this in previous members when it is well looked upon for certain areas can also be hidden under a password of jurisdiction, but when it comes to Articles 62 and 63, on which I have proposed an amendment to delete, I am asking you all to think carefully. The judiciary is the last jurisdiction to be transferred to the province, unless the province wants to be a republic or state, because the judicial authority is one of the fundamental functions of the state. One who has a court under his ingenuity can legally and regularly reach the goal, because the proposing's intentions are clear. That something is wrong also shows that you have put this important issue for Serbia at an extraordinary session. Why are you in such a hurry and who gave up the task of ending this? Who's the prescription from? I'm afraid you haven't copied it from Rugova. If there is no erasure of this article, as I suggested, there will be chaos in the rule of law. We will have different laws, and that law will apply to Serbia and the law that will apply to Vojvodina. Does this mean, when you commit a violation in Novi Sad, that you will be punished under the Duke's law, and if you do the same in Belgrade, by Serbian law? If you pass a judicial exam in Novi Sad, it will not apply to the Belgrade court or vice versa. In the end, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, once again I ask you to vote to delete article 63 from the law. This will avoid transferring events from Kosovo to Vojvodina. At the very end, if we transfer the jurisdiction of the courts to Vojvodina, we will do Canko a favor to continue the destruction of Serbia without having to answer for it before the New Sad court. Today, in the "National" Canak is seeking a referendum, to divide Serbia into six republics, which means we are late for the adoption of the law because of the authority of Vojvodina, because the applicant's wish is the republic, and then the state and we will be late for the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17235	The word has been given by MP Jovan Deretic, the applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17236	Dear Presidency, dear colleagues, we are doing Sisif's work in this House. We submit amendments that automatically refuse. There is one group here, quite numerous, that cares about breaking the state of Serbia and for which there is no other word but a conspiracy against the state. You will not accept this amendment and we know it, as you have not accepted the others, but it is our duty to tell you what it is. It is a parallel judiciary in the province of Vojvodina, the future republic of Vojvodina and the rest of Serbia. The government is playing with words, they say, "They only ask to propose." The one who suggests what he proposes and does. So, the Assembly of the Republic of Vojvodina (I did not make a mistake, not a lapus), will decide on a network of courts in the territory of the Vojvodina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17237	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? The word has been made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17238	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have reached the last member of 63 to regulate legal matter. After this, we'll only be left with transitional and final provisions. We could briefly sum up the effects of working on this bill and the effects of the law itself. There was a round about hot oatmeal. Efforts were that the autonomous political parties could present themselves to the voters in Vojvodina as those who provided the Vojvodina with great authority and independence; that the DOS in Serbia showed the government's amendments that he had given nothing, and had to approach this because he promised it in the election campaign. We Serbian radicals took advantage of the opportunity to show you what a state to decide Serbian radicals would look like. Now we've reached the courts, where I ask DOS - have we passed the Court Act? Does this law on courts say somewhere that an autonomous province is proposing an organization, a network of courts? If you have a concept, if you have a program to implement, why don't you implement it in those laws that we passed just a month and a half ago? At that time, it could not be seen that you would propose and all vote for the autonomous province to propose a network of courts in the territory of the autonomous province. What will be the fate of the Courts Act now? Are we going to have a bill again on amendments and additions to the Law on Courts, when we come up with a proposal for an autonomous province to change the network of courts in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, or are we going to say - it says there in your law that you propose and you suggest it, but it doesn't say anywhere that we will listen to you or that anywhere in your proposal we will consider. Everyone's gonna wave at article 63. One will say -- here, we have the right to propose a network of courts, and the other will speak -- here, we have given them a right that they will never be able to achieve. Either we're not reading the bill's proposals well, or the autonomists in Vojvodina are making themselves a framework from which they will jump out in each action, or this is just the basis for the new state that you want to form there. Whenever, gentlemen of the DOS, we mention that this bill looks like a silent state formation to us, we come across resistance from you, caused by a number of reasons. One, because we're telling you, the other because you don't want the public to know it and the third, because many of you disagree with the formation of a new state. But when you choose the color of a push button, you all press the green button, you're all "yes." I understand those still in DOS. Oh, my God, it's thick. You know that even the sheep are flocking in front of the wolves, you know, when wolves attack a herd of horses, the horses turn their backs on each other and throw their front legs at each other. I'm surprised now that they're no longer in DOS. (President: Mr. Nikolic, please return to the topic. You didn't hear me, Mrs. Micic, so you don't know I was in the topic. I'm saying, I'm surprised that they're not in DOS and they're making quorums and they're voting for that bill. You here have those who are in DOS and those who are on board. I'd ask you to wake up on the boards, not to watch now, when I look in the O.R., who's in the DOS, who's in the boards. People think it's all the same, and obviously it's not the same. Ladies and gentlemen, when you vote for this bill, you neither vote for Vojvodina to be a state nor vote for Serbia to remain unique. You leave everything in order to those who force you to do this. (President: I warn you of an excessive amount of time. I'm really sorry, I don't get to overstep time, sometimes I just make a mistake. I wonder if Nenad Canak will take that joke off of him when he gets this bill, or if he'll start howling around his head.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17239	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? The word comes from MP Branislav Ivkovic, president of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17240	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, in a civil state, and Serbia is a civil state, because the Constitution is defined as the state of its citizens, it is normal to expect that every citizen has absolutely the same rights when it comes to key spheres of life. We've spent a lot of time here trying to explain to each other why it's not right for the Republic's laws to have administrative oversight perform a body in Vojvodina, past the Republic, because it's a direct violation of the Constitution, Articles 71 and 72. Serbia's constitution, because the implementation of republican laws on the territory of the Republic of Serbia is exclusive to the jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia. We talked about natural resources, about waters, fishing, livestock, culture, many spheres of life, and no one wanted to answer why an artist, a cultural worker, is in a different position in Vojvodina, but, for example, in Jagodina, Nis or Vranja. But something you can't explain to the citizens of Serbia is the position of citizens in front of judicial authorities. If there has to be equality in front of some authorities, it's in the area of the judiciary. What happens to Article 63, as well as to Article 62? As you already said in article 62, an autonomous province can make its own charges and decisions, so, already in the area of criminal law, the citizens of Vojvodina have to behave differently, it will have different conditions than the citizens of out of Vojvodina, in the rest of Serbia. Now, in the 63rd, you are self-predicting that a network of courts in the territory of the AP Vojvodina is being brought by someone in Vojvodina, some kind of newly-sed oligarchy, headed by the 117 fascists in this assembly. Is it then a civil state, do we have the right to leave one part of our Republic alone, past the rest of the system, to decide on a judicial network? You will answer for your own safety.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17241	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 56, against 99, abstention 23, 12, a total of 190 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 64th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Deretic and Zoran Novakovic. Representative, Government and Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. The word has been made by MP Zoran Novakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17242	Dear citizens of Serbia, distinguished colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, this article sets out in transitional and final provisions. He says the autonomous province will establish by its regulation the organisation and the work of the province's authorities within a month of the date of entry into force of this law. Since this is about the fact that by its regulation, it means a special regulation, it will establish an organization and a detour of certain regional authorities, even in the sphere of life in which I work, which is energy and mining in this country, I am very interested in what kind of organization is going to establish an autonomous province in the territory of Vojvodina. Especially since this is what I am interested in from the EPS's work domain, given that, as you already know, the Elektro-distribution of Vojvodina is one of the first EPS units most likely to enter the privatisation process in our country, given the compactity and value. The Autonomous Province takes the right, by law, to determine the work of the province's authorities and thus determines their organization by its own means, freely. The issue remains open, whether it will be the authorities of the AKP, or, as many MPs have said, the Republic of Vojvodina. So, respected citizens, colleagues and colleagues, by mid-March, we will have an application of the bill, which we call on you not to vote on. At the end of March, you will have a 50% increase in electricity prices, in April the prices of heating and utility will increase, and by my personal assessment in May, the citizens of this country will bend to the ground from the great loads of low standard of life. Obviously, what is proposed is not right and what is done, but anyway. We believe that some new democratic national parties, as a future third option, will succeed in all that is proposed and adopted in this way and in a way with several provisions, to abolish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17243	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? Yeah. Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17244	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think this article 64 is overly ambitious. It is true that this law has only 63 members who are entrusted with business or determine jurisdiction, as you say autonomous provinces. That's the whole area, that's dozens of laws. You here claim that the weak administration of the AP Vojvodina, you think of it, within one month of the day of the entry into force of this law, will write the regulations and adopt them in the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, so that they are determined by the organisation and part-round of the province's bodies, in accordance with this bill. Now, if we had such an effective state; well, it takes a month to adopt this bill, and you say that within a month of the law coming into force, Vojvodina will fully take over all the powers, jurisdiction as you say, entrusted with the omnibus of the law. So entrusted to the entire system, the legal system in the Republic of Serbia. That's absolutely impossible. Now I ask you, and where are the criminal provisions, and what if the autonomous province doesn't do this job in a month and shows that it hasn't been time to trust her yet, that she's immature, that she's unprepared, that she's not technically and humanely organized. How are you going to punish the AP? How are you going to punish the AP for not doing the work that was laid down by law? You may be convinced that thousands of people will take over the job within a month, that you will even bring in acts within a month, with thousands of people taking on a whole new job. I'm convinced he can't do that. I'm going to convince you by article 70 that the law is retroactive, as soon as you say it will apply from 1 January 2002. And at least as much as we've been throwing at me, from the front and back, I can assure you that you're making terrible mistakes, especially you who are trying to do something to me on the back. There's no way.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17245	Anybody else answer for a word? Yeah. ) The word is held by MP Branislav Ivkovic, president of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17246	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, it's not just about a month's time, it's about the form of an act that the province can even lay down. In the next amendment, according to the same article submitted by MP Zoran Nikolic, the SPS MP, it is indicated that the AP can not only by regulations, but by the statute to specify everything that your majority are now giving to them, the oligarchy in Novi Sad, to do. The Statute is the highest legal act of an APV. If you are already doing what you are doing, simply to use the Republic's jurisdiction and the Republic's rights, the rights of one state to transfer to the APVovodin, then in article 64 instead of regulations, use the word - statute, make them aware and explain to them that they are the province. Therefore, the statute is the act to which all this should be done, not to the various regulations, which one would adopt, and who should not know who should bring it into this galaxy that is being created. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17247	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 60, against 91, with 28 abstentions, 12, a total of 191 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 64th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran D. Nikolic. The proposing representative and the government have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The applicant for the amendment is not present in the O.R. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 62, against 92, with 26 abstentions, 12, a total of 192 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 65th amendment was submitted by MP Toma Busetic. Representative, Government and Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17248	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I have proposed that the Members of the 65th Law be deleted. This is the logical consequence of our request to delete members 22, 23 and 33, who talk about the education of rural authorities in the field of labour and social legislation. Simply, our position is very clear: autonomy can only be corrected by certain specificities, for Vojvodina, for example. agriculture, and no health care, pension fund, employment, etc. This law does not correct certain specificities in those areas, but rather a specific area, and education, and health care, and information, is set aside from the jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia, which essentially means the annulment of the state. Autonomy should serve the unity of the state, which is its goal, a guarantee of autonomy can be a state, otherwise it becomes a state. This law is certainly the biggest blow to, the torment created, the single Serbia. We are against this law because it is contrary to the Constitution of Serbia, contrary to the Constitution which is very democratic and which is created by agreement of relevant factors. So, there are no charges that the Constitution is de-troissed and one-party. It was created at a time when the SPS had almost the plebiscite support of the people, when it was a referendum and when we had over 190 MPs. Who's writing a new constitution today? Those who accuse us of a single-party constitution, they write a new constitution, the Democratic Party of Serbia. And who should adopt the constitution? DOS. What's DOS? DOS is a conglomerate of monarchists, mondialists, autonomists... (President: Mr. Bushettic, I warn you to return to the agenda topic. ) (the theme is... the uncommunist and the most defeated forces from the eighth session. We are against this law because it disabling Serbia's single state structure. Already, some of the leaders of the Vojvodina are talking about the need for Vojvodina to be involved in the reconstruction of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. For nothing, various analysts, experts like some Medojevic, Lutovac, Trkula, tell us what a new common state will look like. We Socialists today can say what a new state will look like. It'll take some time with Montenegro, and it'll last just as long... (President: Mr. Bushettic, again I warn you not to stick to the topic of the agenda. Here, this is the topic. Here, the minister gives me permission to say. (President: You have received the word as an applicant for the amendment to Article 65) So it's going to be a temporary solution, and by the example of that Badenter Commission that said, "SFRJ fell apart from itself," and that's how it's going to happen now. SRJ's gonna fall apart, we're gonna have four federal units...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17249	Mr. Bushetić, on the basis of Articles 102 and 103, I give you my first warning. I've warned you twice to get back on the agenda, please take care of yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17250	Please, what we can do, we're against this law. For what? Here, Kutillero was a few days ago, but very soon after the adoption of this law, some new Kutillero will come, which will express concern for the situation in Vojvodina. Of course, this scenario has already been seen, and that is why we suggest that this law is not passed because it will have both tragic and devastating consequences for the Serbian people and for the common state.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17251	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. I am putting on the vote of Amendment 58, v 98, abstention 25, did not vote 8, a total of 189 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 65th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ratimir Svirčević, Zivica Predojev, Teodora Vlahović and Kermeci Karolj. The proposing representative and the government have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Do the applicants want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Does any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 10, against 139 abstentions 26, 14 voted, a total of 189 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 66th Amendment were submitted by MP Rajko Baralic and joint MPs Jovan Deretic and Zoran Novakovic. Since there's no time, since there's less than five minutes left until the break, I'm setting a break by 15.00 hours and then we'll continue our work. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please insert your identification cards into the MPs' units to determine the quorum. I figure we've got a quorum and we can keep working. Members of the 66th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Rajko Baralic and joint MPs Jovan Deretic and Zoran Novakovic. Representative, Government and Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Do any of the applicants of the amendment want a word? There's a word from MP Jovan Deretic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17253	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, we have submitted an amendment to Article 66 of the proposed law, because we believe this is a violation of the right of private property. It says here that the autonomous province simply assumes the rights of founders over the good founded by the Republic of Serbia. This isn't about anything else. It's about one rough kidnapping. The government of the Republic of Serbia gives an explanation -- it does not accept this amendment because it will ensure that the rights of institutions in certain areas are more effective in the performance of the tasks placed in the jurisdiction of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina. It means this way. If anyone wants to steal your house, give it to him, let them take it easy. Don't go against it. And if this is about some autonomy, then why is it -- taking over the founder's rights? If this is about one secession, which is what it really is, then of course this makes sense, because, as the Republic of Croatia, Slovenia, so wants Vojvodina to do now -- just confiscate all the goods that are located in the territory of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Now Vojvodina is doing it against the good that the Republic of Serbia has there. You vote as you wish, and I, Mr. DOS, will congratulate you on the Republic of Vojvodina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17254	Any of the amendment applicants come forward for a word? Here you are, MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17255	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, esteemed journalists, in the transitional provisions of these several amendments, we are still trying to explain that this law should not be passed, not because we are against an elevated degree of autonomy, but because we are in favour of normal autonomy, and we do not view you as authentic fighters for the autonomy of Vojvodina, but because we believe that this is the law that, in some sense, merely tries to fulfill some of your election promises, will also disappoint the conditional-autonomists and conditionally-unitarians. I will read Article 66 for the sake of the public: "Autonomic province assumes the rights and obligations of founders to existing institutions in the fields of education, sport, health care and social protection for the accommodation of users in the territory of an autonomous province, whose founder is the Republic or the authorities of the Republic, which has been established in accordance with this law since the date of entry into force of this law." I particularly point out the last sentence: "The balance of interest will be closer to determining the division of funds and rights and obligations in the acquisition of founding rights". This last sentence speaks of the intention of the legislator to make a bad state out of autonomy, from good autonomy, and this is clear to all of us; it also says that this is about something other than trying to protect minority national and other rights, which are in the Atonomic Region of Vojvodina, thanks to the strategic objective set in this area several decades ago, at the highest possible level in Europe and today. That's true. Everything outside of that is speculation, it's politics, and it's -- it's a commitment in the DOS coalition to make certain concessions, especially to those small political parties -- I think small by the number of people they gather, because I don't underestimate anyone's programmes -- and thus iron out coalition relations that are at the lowest possible point of the establishment of DOS. I advocate that this article be deleted, although many members of the proposed law, which I now bear and explain, are naturally adopted, leads to nonsense. However, it should be heard that no citizens' rights in Vojvodina are at any lower level than any citizen who does not live in the Vojvodina; on the contrary, I think it is one, both in the national and in the confiscational, and in the civic sense, a harmonised environment, in which all those rights that make citizens and the state are normally exercised. The impact of the Vojvodina personnel today in Serbia's central government is such that it is absolutely possible to talk not only about equal representation, but can be talked about over-sighted representation, because the largest number of committees run by people from Vojvodina, there is a minister from Vojvodina, there is a Serbian Deputy Prime Minister from Vojvodina, there are chairmans of JP's "Serbian" and other important public enterprises in Serbia from Vojvodina. So it's not at all about challenging the legitimate rights of the citizens of Vojvodina, the people who live there, regardless of their religion or nation. So once again, I point out to the public that it's important to think better before it cuts... (The President - Time) I thank you... Until it's too late. This isn't about strengthening your autonomy. This is a weakening of the position of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17256	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? Here you are, MP Tomislav Nikolic, and then Stevan Ž. Gudurić.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17257	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the application of this law, which was brought down to the last member on 1 January 2002, in two members is more detailed, in Article 66 and Article 69. And now in Article 69, it seems to me that a more realistic deadline has been foreseen for certain areas where Vojvodina's slide begins to ask itself in eight days; but here in Article 66, the legislator did not have time, not even a month from the day of adoption of this bill, but rather requires that the rights and obligations of the founders under the existing institutions in the fields of education, sport, health care and the institution of social protection of the Autonomous Province take place on the day of entry into force of this law. I don't know if the President of the Assembly has a problem with all this noise in the O.R., but either you're not enough for the quorum, or when you get together, you talk about what happened to you in the meantime when you weren't in the Assembly. Well, here's another 10-15 minutes, there's going to be a vote, you hold on so long, and then you're breaking up again, but at least when you're in the O.R., you're just stopping by to vote, don't interrupt us working day and night in this room. And what is now reflected by the position of the 2nd member of the bill - is essentially the essence of the bill's proposal and the essence of the relationship that will take place today in 8 days. Because, you say -- the deobligation balance will be closer to determining the division of funds and rights and obligations in the acquisition of founding rights. We've come to a decoupling balance, we've come to share what little we've been left with, when foreigners have passed, that we're now going to make progress with this little country of ours, by carrying out deobess balances. Debt balance, which will split the funds. And what happens within eight days? I know at least the viewers are listening to us, so I don't mind you yelling. You don't know anything about this bill, and I couldn't teach you anything in these five minutes, but for the record, within eight days, an autonomous province will give consent to decisions on the election of a director, I don't know how you're going to change the laws that regulate it differently? Autonomous province will distance teachers from teaching, the AP will appoint higher school directors, the AP will negotiate the prices of individual services, i.e. programmes of health institutions, for which funds are provided in the AP budget. So we're going to be further different from those of us who are looking for some services from the state in the territory outside the Apod of those who are looking for these services on AP territory. Now the prices are going to be different, now everything is going to be different, just because you dared to divide a single system, which the people trusted us to manage as one, into two subsystems at the moment, and God knows how many will soon be. I don't want to be present with this deobive balance between Serbia and Vojvodina, but this article of the bill, you're obviously hinting at it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17258	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? There is a word from MP Stevan G. Guduric, the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group for this item of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17259	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we received, at the beginning of the third week, the end of the debate on a law that approximately doesn't want whoever suggested it, because it's not what he wanted, neither does the government. They will only want a trade coalition that will vote him, and at least the citizens of Vojvodina want him. The amendment tabled by MP Rajko Baralic of the SPS parliamentary group says this article is deleted. It's very normal that it's proposed to delete, because in the second position of this member, the divisions are mentioned. As soon as something was shared, it was a deoba, and there was no talk of being asked to be part of the Vojvodina campaign from Serbia. I guess it was supposed to look different. How much is going on here with this law of "drinking water" in Vojvodina, look at the week and look at Kickinda, where you from DOS are in power, and look at the results. DOS in the city of Kickindi the sixth, since the seventh couldn't be, because so much was not competed; of 1,000 and change enrolled, all 11, as for one football team, voted DOS. This is the answer of the work of the people of Vojvodina - what they think, among other things, about this law of yours, because a law like this, whose unfortunate member is the 66th component, is certainly not the wish of those who live in Vojvodina. The desire is a third-rate politician, who wants to grab some authorities, if possible, is for those who trade with the state already longer. And those who live in Vojvodina, their desire is not. And they say what their wish is. The wish is not you, especially the wish is not the composition of the Vojvodina Assembly, and this is very simple to define, what Vojvodina wants. What's written in this law won't, that's for sure. The answer to your writings like this will be very clear in the first election, just don't hope to last the four years.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17260	Mr. Guduric, I'm warning you. Is anyone else applying for a word to this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 44, against 112, with 36 abstentions, it was not voted by 11, a total of 223 international MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 66th amendment was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which, by its letter of 24 January 2002, informed the National Assembly of its withdrawal. You've been served with the Government's notice on the withdrawal of the amendments. National MP Ljubomir Mucic submitted to Article 67 of the amendment. Representative, Government and Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There's a word from MP Ljubomir Mucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17261	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to article 67 of the proposed omnibus law. With the amendment I have proposed to delete, throughout this article, although I very rarely do, which for the purpose of getting to know the public and citizens, and also those who do not read at all these piles of material, I quote: "The means of ensuring the achievement of certain competences under this law in the area where the autonomous province assumes founding rights will be provided in the budget of the Autonomous Province and the budget of the Republic". There are many reasons why I have submitted this amendment on behalf of the SPS Parliament Club, but I will list only three. First, our people said a long time ago, realized and remembered that the cuddly lamb of two mother tits, which can be said for this proposal, that the autonomous province is financed from the budget of the Autonomous Province and the budget of the Republic. The cuddly lamb at this session in the National Assembly was a wolf, only in lamb skin, because as soon as it crossed the Danube and the Pancheva bridge he said -- the Nazis decide in the Serbian Parliament. If there were a judiciary in this country and a case against those accused of crimes against humanity, the largest number of MPs from the Serbian Parliament who voted against the omnibus would have brought bucagi to prison. We are the hostages of last-time Nazis, who are free to walk the streets and even decide something in the Serbian Parliament. That's what Mr. Canak said, the wolf in the lamb's skin (Taliban, please be quiet), the wolf in the lamb's skin remained alive and the proof that the wolf's hair was changing, and not at all. Once again it has been discovered that it is not a lamb, the government shall, by its amendment to the same member, separate it from the republican budget and leave the funds for the exercise of certain competences in the areas provided for by this member in general to be provided in the budget of the autonomous province. You learn more yourself, and Mr. Kasa, Deputy Prime Minister and the old fox, already realizes that the sparrow is better in hand. Secondly, if I could have submitted an amendment to the same member after the vote in principle, I would not have suggested eradicating, but I would have added something else from the budget system law, if funding had been made under this law from the city budget, logically first of all the New Sad, our money, then Belgrade, which extends through the Danube, and the Kragujevac, which the omnibus law supported from Shumada, as well as the budgets of some municipalities. I wouldn't spread the number much on this occasion, so let's just leave it as a symbol of a successful municipality, above the average in Serbia and support the omnibus law. Third, following the government's amendment, which was accepted, it is part of the amendment I submitted on behalf of the SPS parliamentary club, only the constitutional principle, Article 109, has been retained. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, that the province brings the budget and the final account of the budget for the original competences it has. However, I believe that the adoption of the omnibus law before the system law on the budgetary system, Article 41, will allow the government, in the framework of the planned budget for 2002, to make changes within the framework of direct budget beneficiaries, and in favour of the AP Vojvodina budget. To this danger, I strongly point out to you and remind you that the budget was made by emergency procedure before New Year's Eve, with an indication of changes. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, once again I warn you of this question before the vote on the omnibus law in general, metaphorically said that this law, or an ankle bus called Serbia, would not become two minibuses, and the minibus is one in front of you. I urge you to vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17262	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? The word has a folk MP Tomislav Nikolic, followed by Branislav Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17263	As you know, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and you should know, every bill that congregation services fail in the process has to meet the basic criteria and legal conditions. One of them is that the bill promoter assesses the amount of funds needed to implement the law and says where these funds will be provided, how, in what way, have they already been provided or possibly said no additional funding is needed to implement the law. We've been deceived here by the bill promoter. If it were there, it would be worth banging him on the head with this bill, but his deception was not responded by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, it was not responded by the Legislative Committee, it was not responded by the Finance Committee, because it was not the Assembly committees. These are DOS committees in the Assembly. It's a simple and very visible, clearly visible delusion. The promoter wrote that the implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional financial resources. Article 67. The bill says: "The means to ensure the achievement of certain competences under this law in the area where the Autonomous Province assumes founding rights will be provided in the budget of the Autonomous Province and the Republic's budget." For those of you who listen to this argument in layman's ear, it turns out that the proponent said -- funds will be taken from the budget of the Autonomous province and the budget of the Republic. However, when one who writes the bill says the funds will be provided in the budget, that means that the budget law for the year for which the law is passed will already provide for an item covering the funds needed to implement the law. We adopted the budget in December of last year, and nowhere in the Republic of Serbia's budget has we foreseen the means to implement this law. At least the moral obligation of the legislator was that, if he had enough sense to see where everything should take jurisdiction, sit down and calculate how much it would cost; how much more would it cost taxpayers in the territory of the Republic of Serbia; that those of us who do not live in the territory of an autonomous province would cost one-off, over one tax, and how much the people of Vojvodina would cost twice, through the taxes of the Autonomous Province and the taxes of the Republic of Serbia. You know, you who look at the state only through money, but only when it suits you, when you propose such laws, even if citizens in only one part of Serbia's territory, this time it's about the citizens of the AP Vojvodina, to tell them right away -- yes, you were threatened, your rights were usurped, you lived in a dictatorial regime, Serbia didn't want to respect the Constitution of Serbia, it didn't give you any authority, this bill wants us to correct it, but it's going to cost you so much and so much. Then the citizens would say, well, when you ask "where is our money", do you individually ask for your money or ask on behalf of us, Serbian citizens who happen to live in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. If you told citizens living in the territory of an autonomous province how much extra money it would take for you to play the authorities in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, they wouldn't vote for this bill either. We will not vote for him because he breaks our Serbia, and the people of Vojvodina would not vote for him because he requires additional allocations for the budget and for the oligarchy: for your phones, secretaries, cars, privileges, travel abroad.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17264	Mr. Nikolic, take care of what you say.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17265	What did you say? (President: I warn you to stick to the agenda theme and you've exceeded your time. How come you right in four minutes and 55 seconds to warn me on time? What kind of way is that?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17266	Five minutes and two seconds. According to Article 138 of the amendment, it shall take a maximum of five minutes, not a mandatory overrun of five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17267	And you decide if it'll last less than five minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17268	It means it's supposed to last. If it's five minutes tops, it should take less than five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17269	Mrs. Micic, since you have this Swiss precision, it takes at 4:59 a.m. to say - time. Then I, as a fine-mannered man, a gentleman, come down from the pay phone and finish the job. You remind me in the fourth minute that I have another minute. Well, this isn't a train station so you can tell me when the train will arrive. I'm out to talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17270	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? The word is made by MP Branislav Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17271	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, during these eight days of assembly debate, we realized how the story of Mr. Chanka's question ends is "di na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na nano". The story of "where is our money" ends in the pocket of every citizen of the AP Vojvodina. In order to manage culture and workers in culture, to manage the spatial plan, to manage regional plans, to manage the water industry, to manage agriculture, fish, fisheries, to make all of this in the hands of the newly-sadic oligarchy, we have reached transitional and final provisions and to 4 members of these transitional and final provisions. I remind you he's the first member of the transitional and final provisions, 64. A member, indicating that the province should adopt regulations. We have proposed that the province adopt the statutes, because the statute is an image of autonomy, and that in the statutes of the Republic of Serbia the Assembly must give its consent. No, your majority voted for regulation. By the way, you gave them administrative oversight of the application of republican laws and essentially set out to degrade what we consider to be a comprehensive and united Republic of Serbia. That this decommissioning is going on, he showed Article 65, where you have committed the Republic Labour Market Office, the Republic Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund, to break down their single regulations within a month. In article 66, you transferred the right of founder to all institutions in the fields of culture, health and social protection at the AP Vojvodina. We have now reached Article 67, where you are essentially decomposing the budget of the Republic of Serbia. It is clear to anyone who is written that this provision in article 67 says that all costs incurred in this way will be generated and collected in funds at the level of the AP Vojvodina. A significant part of the republic's budget will thus be disbanded. We really need to understand that Article 67, as such, speaks of the definitive decomposition of the joint house. In that sense, MP Ljuba Mucic has submitted an amendment to delete this article 67th, with the basic idea that at least one single element of the common state remains. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17272	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 67, against 111 abstentions, 39 did not vote 8, a total of 225 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The word has a folk ambassador, Stevan G. Guduric.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17273	Article 116. The Rules of Procedure, the final position, says: "The computer copy of each vote is delivered to parliamentary groups, at their request... "In the name of the SPS, I ask for it, because before the amendment to Article 67 was put to the vote, it was 207, when the vote was issued it was 225, and no new one entered the hall.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17274	Mr. Guduric, are you looking for computer records? Yeah. ) I ask the service to deliver a computer copy to the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 67 of the amendment. The proposer's representative accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The amendment was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia to Article 68, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of this law. The government of the Republic of Serbia and MP Sreten Mitrovica submitted to the 69th amendment, in the same text. The proposing representative accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of this law. Member of the 69th Amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Pomorski. The proposing representative and the government did not accept this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Does any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 17, against 153, 40 abstentions, were not voted 18, a total of 228 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The government of the Republic of Serbia and MP Djura Lazic submitted to the 70th amendment, in the same text. The proposing representative accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of this law. National MP Slobodan Janjic submitted to the 70th amendment. Representative, Government and Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. The amendmentr wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17275	I don't know why I got this applause, is it because I speak my mother tongue or what? [[Applause]] The transitional and final provisions of this call, article 70, reads: "This law takes effect on the eighth day since the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", and will apply from 1 January 2002." [[Laughter]] I don't know what's hurting you so much in this law, you'll be doing his application from January 1st. What have you missed since January 1st in the past month? You say your laws aren't retroactive, and this is one of the evidence that your laws are retroactive. At least you should've told the citizens what's the reason you're going back to this law on January 1st. It would be better if you took it now to vote that today is December 31st, tonight to celebrate New Year's Eve and there's no need for anyone to call you for retroactive laws. With the amendment I submitted to Article 70, I asked for the second position to be added: "This law will apply on the territory of the AP Kosovo and Metohija at the end of the UN Temporary Administration Mission (UNMIK)". I don't know what the government found wrong in this sentence or in this article. Even though we Serbian radicals say that this law is bad, as you will vote, if you succeed in voting it, why is this same law not valid for Kosovo? Tell the citizens if you wrote off Kosovo. The government explained: "The government does not accept the amendment, since the issue of the application of this law in the territory of the AP Kosovo and Metohija will be settled." Not to apply but to edit, so it will be arranged differently than for the AP Vojvodina. What's the difference between these two autonomous provinces? You've given one up before, and you're preparing one now. I'm glad that a representative of the parliamentary majority has recovered, has come to a healthy and chio vote. And now let me ask Mrs. Chairman: are the working conditions here in the Assembly bad, do they meet health requirements, that we are all able to pass this law today? I don't know, ma'am, have you ever been in a factory hall, in a mine, in a field, on a tractor or anywhere, where hard working conditions are being created?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17276	Please return to the topic. The answer to the question is: the conditions are bad, in this room the working conditions are bad. Go on, please, with the theme.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17277	I don't know what the voters in Serbia say, but workers who work in really difficult working conditions will tell you in the elections. I believe you enjoy doing this job. Should I say what you expect me to say? [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17278	Please go back to the subject and finish your exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17279	Your colleagues say you do this job with pleasure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17280	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Yeah. ) Here you are, MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17281	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 70, which is also the last member of this bill, reads: "This law takes effect on the eighth day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", and will apply from 1 January 2002. "To remind the president of the National Assembly, she has the privilege of coming out of these difficult conditions whenever she wants and coming back whenever she wants, and we MPs have to sit here and work.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17282	Where's the president of your parliamentary group?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17283	There's no time for you right now, Mrs. Micic, but I'll tell him you've been looking for him. Article 121. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia states: "The law, the second regulation or the general act cannot have a feedback. Only by law can it be determined that certain provisions of this law, if required by the general interest laid down in the law-making process, have a return fact." Our article in 70 says the whole law will apply from 1 January 2002, that the whole law will have a feedback. Today is February 4th, if you even secure the majority today and vote in law, you will have to find Milan Milutinovic, who performs the duties of the President of the Republic, to take it to his signature. He does, according to article 84. The Constitution, seven days of time for this law to be considered. He has the right to refuse to sign it. By doubting his courage, he can return to the assembly vote. This means it could be a month before the law really gets published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". You will take it back two months, it will go back two months, and you didn't think of any way to determine the general interest, so that some members of the law would have a return fact. There is a complete law here before us that will act retroactively on the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Even so retroactive that when the province authorities took over services that were so far republican, and in the previous article of the law it said that they would only take over the required number of workers, you did not even bother to ensure that all workers remain at work. (Come on, don't count it now that we're discussing the law, what's the matter with you? It doesn't make sense. ) You have not even provided a job for all those who have done the job so far, and it can happen that the job has been lost since 1 January 2002, and from that point of view, the law is absolutely unconstitutional. There is another part that you never pay attention to, which was pointed to by MP Slobodan Janjic, which is Kosovo and Metohija. If you were not allowed anywhere in the name of the law and nowhere in its provisions to say that it is exclusively about Vojvodina, then you should at least leave the status of Kosovo and the Metohija unresolved, as it is under the authority of the United Nations and until the Civilian Mission in Kosovo and Metohija ceases; you should say until when this law is applied there, that at least the conscience is relieved, the children will ask you- what is not now applied to the territory of Kosovo and Metohija? You could tell them that it says in the law: Son, when the occupier leaves, the law will be applied to Kosovo and Metohija. Not like this, you are solving the status of the Vojvodina because Kosovo and the Metohija are going to kidnap it in front of our eyes. It's already one of the agenda points from this extraordinary session, and it indicates that you're completely in agreement with it! Counted you or not, count today, at this hour, all votes by the SRS against this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17284	The word came from Mr Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the DOS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17285	Mrs. Micic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am obliged to give an explanation to those who have been unable to read the bill that we have been discussing for a week. The Vojvodina Assembly sent a draft law setting out certain competences of the Autonomous Province to the Republic Assembly after the session on 14 December. Because of our ineffectiveness, we were unable to adopt an emergency procedure, in accordance with Articles 158 and 159. Rules of Procedure on the work of the Republic of Parliament, this law. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Serbia has tabled an amendment to the draft law, which was then adopted and corrected by Article 70. The bill's proposal in such a way that it actually avoids retroactiveness, which, if it didn't come to that correction, would really be a serious problem. So, the bill that we're going to vote on doesn't have that provision, and I think it's clear that the basic assumptions for the regulatory voting process and the vote of this law have been met. I believe that.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17286	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 70, against 116, abstention 41, they did not vote two, a total of 229 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Since we have completed a review of the Bill's proposal in particular and a decision on amendments, does the legislator want a final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the search of the bill in particular and I see, according to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Stevan Ž. Gudurić, Mr. Borislav Pelevic, Mr. Tomislav Nikolic and no one else came forward. Here you go, Mr. Stevan G. Guduric.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17287	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I suggest that, in accordance with Article 115 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure, Parliament votes with a roll call. But, just one more thing to say: by calling, and so that everyone who's called gets up, let's see it, because one part of a colleague only comes to the vote, so at least let's get to know them when the vote is, if we're not in a different situation.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-04-0.u17288	In line with the Rules of Procedure, I would like to put to the vote the motion of MP Stevan G. Guduric to make the vote public. For 116, against 116, a abstentioned one, not one, a total of 234 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not made a decision to hold the vote by public appeal. Do you stay in touch with the Rules of Procedure, the other MPs? Give up? I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. I put to the vote the draft law laying down certain competences of the autonomous province in general. For 118, v. 72, abstention 42, not one, a total of 233 MPs voted. Ladies and gentlemen, I find that the National Assembly has passed by majority vote a bill establishing certain competences of the autonomous province in general. We're done with today's work, and I'm setting a break by 10.00 tomorrow. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, today's session is attended by 156 MPs. Please, in order to determine the quorum, insert identification cards into MPs. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I would like to inform you that the following MPs will be absent: Rodoljub Sabic, Dragan Jočić, Vladimir Dobrosavljevic, Branimir Trajkovic, Milos Lučić, Zoran Boskovic and Ružica Veljovic in the morning. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. Also, according to members 83 and 84. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that I invited representatives of the National Movement "Resist", representatives of the Association of Families of Kidnap and Missing Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija, as well as representatives of the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities of Yugoslavia on the third item of the agenda. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Local Self-Government You have received a proposal for a Law on Local Self-Government, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted to the Bill: Milan Marković, Kermeci Karolj, Zaharija Trnavčević, Zeljo Hurić, a group of MPs: Čedomir Jovanovic, Nenad Bogdanović, Milena Milošević, Milan Marković and Dragan Pavlović, SredojeMichajlov, Milan Stanimirović, Išpanović Istavan, Živko Selaković, Arsen Kurjač, Miloš Lukić, Dragan Marković, Predrag Čaković, Petar Petrović, Siniša Mitrović, Marko Culibrić, Golub Rajić, Milan Stanković and Toma Bušević, Jovan Derević and Zarko Drago Dragović, Dragodar Žiković, Dragan Colić, Dragan Colić, Dragan Todorović and Hranislav Perić, Božan Muković, Muković, Jovan Muković and Tomo Mušović, Jović, Jovan Drago Žrović, Drago Dragožović, Drag, Slavnović, Slavnović, Dragnović, Drag, Drag, Dragnović and Živić, Dragnović and Žradnović, Živić, Živić, Živić, Živić, Živić, Živić, Živić, Živić, Živić, Živić, Živić, Živić and Drag Živić, Drag, Drag, Drag Živić, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag You have received notice from MPs Jovan Deretic and Zoran Novakovic on the withdrawal of amendments to Article 2. It's a bill of law. At the session of the Legislative Committee, MP Išpanovich Istvan withdrew the amendments to the article. 2nd and 20th. You have received reports from the Committee on Justice and Administration, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Environmental Protection. Members of the Legislative Committee, MPs Djorđa Mamula and Slobodan Adzic, issued an opinion on the amendment committee's statement on Article 32. The bill was submitted jointly by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Nenad Bogdanovic, Milena Milosevic, Milan Markovic and Dragan Pavlovic. Members of the Legislative Committee, MPs Slobodan Adzic and Petar Cvetkovic, issued an opinion on the amendment committee's statement to Article 45. The bill was submitted jointly by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Nenad Bogdanovic, Milena Milosevic, Milan Markovic and Dragan Pavlovic. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of the debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups, a proportional number of MPs from members of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. I'm opening a principled search. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? Yeah. ) I give my word to the promoter, the minister of justice and local self-government, Mr Vladan Batic.
