ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16524	Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday afternoon we received on the benches one piece of paper sent by the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina. The third position on the first page reads: "As a result of the short time-limit, i.e. the AP Vojvodina, it is not possible to establish and deliver its opinion on the amendments submitted." On the other hand, it says that some amendments have been accepted, and the other amendments by the Serbian government and MPs are not accepted. It's all illogical that they should study, study their opinions, say which ones they don't accept and which ones they don't. So I suggest that the debate on this law be postponed in particular until the Vojvodina Assembly examines the amendments and that we move on to paragraph 3. Please let us make this clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16525	I am putting on the vote by MP Velimir Simonovic to postpone the debate in detail on this agenda point. For 57, against 115, with four abstentions, five of the 181 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal of MP Velimir Simonovic. Since the Government of the Republic of Serbia has not delivered an opinion on the amendments submitted to the draft law, I remind you that, according to Article 136(5) of the Law, Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly may decide to consider the bill without it, or set a new deadline within which it is required to do so. I propose that the National Assembly decide that the bill should be considered without the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the amendments submitted. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 96, against 55, abstention31, did not vote 8 out of 190 MPs. I find that a decision has been made to work without the government's opinion, but I have information that the government has filed a report. Here, Minister of Justice and Local Self-Government Mr. Vladan Batic wants a word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16526	Dear Madam Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the distinguished representatives of the Resistance Movement and the distinguished representatives of the Association of Families of Missing and Kidnapped Persons from Kosovo and Metohija, the government has delivered an opinion on the proposed amendments and probably, in this technology of sending and expedition, the MPs have not received this, but in principle I can say that the government practically does not accept any of the proposed amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16527	I thank Mr. Batic. We've made a decision, so we're working without a report, but I believe the service will deliver the report very quickly. Here you are, according to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16528	We did not decide to work without the government's opinion on the amendments, because we were not interested in the government's opinion, but because we were misinformed that the Government had not delivered an opinion on the amendments. Since the government has delivered an opinion on the amendments, we do not have the right to ignore the government's opinion and the session cannot continue until all MPs have received a photocopyed report with a government opinion on each amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16529	I don't agree with you, since we've already made a decision that we can work without an opinion, then we can certainly work with an opinion when they deliver it to us, I don't see what the problem is. You want me to put a vote in breach of the Rules of Procedure? You didn't highlight a member, so I don't have to at all; you had to point out a member who was injured, but you didn't. But I'll put it to a vote. I am voting on the remarks made by MP Vojislav Seselj. For 59, against 96, with abstentions33, did not vote 7, out of 195 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has made a decision not to hurt the Rules of Procedure. National MP Gordana Pop - Lazic has tabled an amendment proposing an amendment to the name of the bill. The proposer's representative and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16530	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this National Assembly, we are used to, the Serbian Government is ignoring, and now the AP Vojvodina Assembly, as the legislator of this law, is also ignoring the MPs and amendments to the MPs that have been filed under this law. Although the president of the Legislative Committee assured us that there is an administration capable of taking over all these affairs, we see in the first step that the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina itself is unable to even give an opinion on amendments to the MPs. The amendment submitted by the SRS parliamentary group, which I will explain, refers to the very name of the law. So, the name of the law - a bill establishing certain competences of the AP - is simply unacceptable because it does not comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The law could eventually have a title - a law on trusting individual businesses in an autonomous province. It's surprising, of course, that there's no name in the name - Vojvodina, because it's obvious that the promoter only meant AP Vojvodina, and we see it from the reasoning of the law. I will repeat once again what we have already said in the principle debate, referring to Article 109. The constitution, which, however, also calls for, but interprets it in its own way, not because it does not know it correctly interprets it, but because it wants to achieve certain objectives, and these objectives are given in the light of the law, where the proposal makes it clear that the law should provide transitional solutions, until the adoption of a new constitution of the Republic of Serbia, to which the status of an autonomous province would be adequately regulated. Please try again to ignore the fact that we don't know if there will be any constitutional changes. You want to create one platform, one state that will exist in an autonomous province with these powers that we are now giving it, and then simply, when the time comes for the new constitution to be adopted, since we know and know what the new constitution is, it will simply be transferred to that new constitution. Article 109(1) point. The applicant’s 3rd and 4th calls are that the autonomous province makes decisions and general acts through its bodies, in accordance with the Constitution and the law, which regulates certain issues of interest for citizens in the autonomous province, so as to list all these areas, not all 24, as many as there are in this bill, and in other areas established by law. When it says - by law, it's not about one such back specialis, it's about special laws that regulate all these areas - so the Social Insurance Act, the Social Care Act, and so on. We do not have the right to regulate this by a single law, if we want to respect the Constitution of Serbia, although we know that this assembly house has failed to respect it on many occasions; we have even a statement by the Minister of Justice, and the Prime Minister, that the Constitution is not the Holy Scriptures. For someone, it's not, for me, it is, it is. I keep the Bible at home, and I carry the Constitution when I come to the congregation, and I must, as a People's MP, hold on to it, no matter how much I don't like it, as long as it exists. So the Constitution cannot be changed by law. The Statute is the highest legal act of an autonomous province, which determines the jurisdiction of the Autonomous Province on the basis of the Constitution. I urge you, gentlemen, by adopting this amendment, to remove a major historical error that you made yesterday by adopting this law in principle, because by adopting this amendment you would practically adjudicate your decision from yesterday's session and remove the responsibility you must bear, because of all the consequences that the state of Serbia will have after the adoption and entry into force of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16531	I give my word to the minister of justice and local self-government, Mr. Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16532	The government's view is that this amendment should not be accepted, because the idea of the amendment is to change the name of the law and to call it - a law on trusting individual businesses in an autonomous province. The amendment should not be accepted for the reasons why the bill lays down certain questions, which are in the original jurisdiction of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina, rather than simply trusting the province of business within the framework of the rights and duties of the Republic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16533	Thank you. There is a word from MP Vojislav Seselj, acting as president of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16534	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it surprises me that the Government of the Republic of Serbia does not have a single legal expert who could explain certain elements to it. First, the competences of an autonomous province can only be determined by the Constitution, and the exercise of those powers can only be regulated by the Statute of an autonomous province, not by law to be passed by the Republic of Slovenia. There are five basic institutions of the political system, that is - state, federal unit, autonomy, region and local self-government. Only the competences of local self-government can be determined by law. All other competences may be determined solely by the Constitution. If someone under the Constitution gets certain powers, then he does them himself within what the Constitution has given him. There must be no senior body of state or senior state institution to edit the area instead. That is the meaning of autonomy -- he gave me something of the Constitution, and what the Constitution gave me is not to give to anyone, and no one can challenge me until I change the Constitution. That's the point, let me explain it to you a little bit more, if you're interested in it at all, I can see you're not interested. Therefore, the law cannot determine the jurisdiction of an autonomous province, the law cannot even establish an autonomous province. Only the constitution can determine that there are autonomous provinces in Serbia. And not only has the Constitution found that there are autonomous provinces in Serbia, but it is clear, namely, that these are autonomous provinces: AP Vojvodina and AP Kosovo and Metohija, and no one else can now interfere, nor can the Assembly, the Government or any other state institution come to the sense of establishing, for example. the new autonomous provinces or to change the competences of the already existing provinces. Already existing autonomous provinces have only those competences that are strictly provided for in the Constitution. You call this your so-called. by bus, by omnibus by law, you get into two things -- you get into the Constitution, because you extend the jurisdiction of autonomous provinces, but you get into the rights of autonomous provinces that the Constitution has already given them directly. You're setting them up. You can't edit them. What the Constitution has given to autonomous provinces can only be governed by an autonomous province by its statutes and legal acts that are under the statutes, and you can be careful that it does not exceed its jurisdiction, or that it does not exercise them in a manner contrary to the Constitution, and nothing more. And here it is a fundamental problem that the Constitutional Court has not been functioning in Serbia for almost a year. Instead of trying in all ways to supplement the constitutional court's composition, to ensure that one of the most important state institutions works, without which no other institutions should do anything at all, (because everything is suspicious of what other state institutions are doing, until the Constitutional Court is formed, and until the general legal acts of any state institutions are possible to check in front of the Constitutional Court), you deliberately prevent the restoration of the Constitutional Court, you deliberately prevent the functioning of the Constitutional Court from adopting such unconstitutional laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16535	Mr. Seselj, please return to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16536	Is my time up yet?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16537	It's not the time, it's the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16538	Well, as far as the subject is concerned, I no longer have a way to explain to you and convince you to talk about the essence of the problem, to talk about this amendment. You know, this is a purely legal question. I'm not talking about your affairs, I'm not talking about...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16539	Your amendment is that the name of the law is changed and that it is said - the law on the trust in the conduct of certain matters to the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina, please explain it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16540	I'm talking about the jurisdiction of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina, which this law is trying to regulate in an anti-constitutional way. You know, when it comes to a purely legal matter, you obviously show the inability to deal with me on this matter. I'd be incapacitated if you and I competed who could have a beer box before drinking. But this isn't drinking beer crates. This is a serious debate on essential, legal issues.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16541	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Mr. Ivkovic, president of the SPS parliamentary group, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16542	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the Socialists will support the amendment of the Serbian Radical Party, precisely for those reasons that are in the light of the amendment and the above. Simply, this assembly cannot determine jurisdiction beyond the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the Statute of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina. That is why I want it to be known that an appointment of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has been attempted, but that this session, for the sake of the will of the majority in this Assembly, has not been held. It is clear to those who are considering why this session of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has not been held. Because there was a discussion here on determining the jurisdiction of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina, which is outside the domain of possible responsibilities and affairs defined by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the Statute of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina. The fact that instead of eight areas being 24 areas, the fact that many other issues are also intruding into federal jurisdiction, which we will talk about later, is that in essence, directly in violation of constitutional solutions, one small majority of only two votes voted in principle. It is very important to change the title of this law, because we have tried to explain to the citizens that we are talking about trusting businesses, and it is essentially about determining the jurisdiction and losing the functions of the Republic in part of its territory.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16543	I give my word to MP Zeldz Huric, a representative of the DOS parliamentary group, the Vojvodina Reformists and the Sandzak Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16544	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the Vice-Presidents, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable representatives of the People's Movement "Resist" and representatives of the kidnapped and missing from Kosovo and Metohija, the minister said the essence of which is why this amendment should not be accepted, because it is really about the rights which are the essential competence of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina, so it is not about any state functions that are transferred to the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina. Basically, what is foreseen by this bill is a correction of what you did in the previous regime wrong. That is why this amendment should not be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16545	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 59, against 102, abstention 31, 10 of 202 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Zoran Boskovic submitted an amendment, with an amendment proposing an addition to the law proposal. The proposer's representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16546	Dear Presidents, honourable MPs, gentlemen, we have been talking here for days about the transfer of jurisdiction to the Autonomous Region and we here in the Assembly and journalists in the media, and they all call it the return of power to Vojvodina. The bill itself does not say that it is the Vojvodina, but only the return of jurisdiction to the autonomous province. We have a little legal misunderstanding here. The legal misunderstanding for the simple reason was because, given the order of procedures that the international community brings to Kosovo and Metohija, and to remind you, in agreement with the Federation and with Serbia, this law cannot apply to both Kosovo and Metohija, because legal chaos would be introduced. The title of this law should be the word "Vojvodina" in order to know what it is. Is there still a problem like ten years ago and in recent years, when Vojvodina was a taboo topic, when no one was allowed to talk about Vojvodina, is that repeated in Serbia today? Minister Batic himself said here today that the law is called - a bill establishing certain responsibilities of the Autonomous province of Vojvodina. We've already baptized him like that, and we need to know what this law applies to. The Constitution itself also says that there are two autonomous provinces, namely Vojvodina and Kosovo and Metohija. Then let's put the word "Vojvodina" in the title of that law. Some speakers before me said we wouldn't edit the Vojvodina, but we know how they were doing the Vojvodina, we saw it on the Christian case. Don't ever let God ever give us a Duke like that again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16547	Anybody else answer for a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16548	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we can't exactly boast that there's a particularly well-organized situation in our country. Problems exist on all sides and there is a lot of disorganization within the political system, within the social structure at all, but if you can talk about that part of Vojvodina that is best arranged and best organized, then it is the Croats. It is the Croats that should be an example to other Serbia's places as well as to organise social structures, system institutions and how all this works. And as for this particular amendment, it shows the true intentions of the applicant of the legal project. What the applicant of the legal project did not express through the project itself, he expressed through one of the parliamentary groups that is the leading political factor that made this up and which leads the main word in Vojvodina, not based on the number of votes won in the elections but on the fact that the rest of the Doss parties entrusted him with it, they handed it over. You've already given someone something that didn't follow him and that the people never wanted to come into his hands. You cooked the porridge yourself, now you cool it yourself, eat it yourself, I don't mind, but you make sure history doesn't end with this law or history ends with your political views on certain issues.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16549	The word came from Justice and Local Self-Government Minister Mr Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16550	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Government is of the opinion that this amendment should not be accepted, precisely for the reasons that exist in the Constitution in Articles 108 and in Chapter VI - Territorial Organisation, where the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina and the Autonomous Region of Kosovo and Metohija is spoken of. So the solutions are identical. We do not give up Kosovo and Metohija, regardless of the current situation and the current situation, as far as Kosovo and Metohija are concerned. And as for the presentation of the honourable MP, Mr Seselj, I must remind him that "the rational reconstruction of Yugoslav federalism implies bringing federal units to the number of Yugoslav peoples, so on three - Serbia, Croatia and Slovenia, and that under these conditions the right of every Yugoslav people to self-determination, including the right to secession, could be reaffirmed. In doing so, it is also necessary to give up insistence on imaginary nations, such as Montenegrin or Muslim. The Yugoslav Federation would consist of three republics, or states, and the internal matter of each federal unit would then be the possible existence of different degrees and forms of regional autonomy and local self-government in them. Yugoslavia could retain a confederal form, but significantly different from the one prescribed by the 1974 Constitution. "This is Mr. Vojislav Seselj's exhibit at the Faculty of Philosophy. One more thing, Mr. Seselj wrote, in his style, a writing, called Pledoai for the Democratic Constitution; he revised the 1974 Constitution of the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians, the 1974 SFRJ Constitution, and the 1974 Serbian Constitution. There's no "a" in those audits from autonomy.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16551	Right on line, MP Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16552	I sincerely thank Justice Minister Vladan Batic for the great commendations he made from the assembly pay phone. He refreshed my memory of the work I was proud of at a time when he couldn't even write against communism, and I crossed the borders of the communist state and, of course, I thanked him for reminding the nation that I was always against any autonomy, and today I am. When the Serbian radicals here have two-thirds of the majority, we will end all autonomy. One of our main criticisms of the Socialist Party of Serbia was that in the Constitution of 1990, the notion of an autonomous province, and as far as the fictional nations are concerned, Vladan Batic agrees with me, of course, that Montenegrins and Muslims are fictional nations. It doesn't exist anywhere in the world, so it doesn't exist here either. This is what the communists created and with the communists it goes to the garbage of history, but fictional nations, not the people they artificially led under that term. These people remain to live, our Serb brothers, Montenegrin Serbs, Serbian Muslim faiths, as we also have brothers of Catholic religion, Bunjevac and Sokce, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16553	The word came from Mr Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the DOS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16554	Mrs. Micic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will try to return this historic hour to our work. We are now, and several times a similar situation will be repeated, in a position that practically the parliamentary majority that voted in principle this law now comes to some kind of political conflict on the subject of individual amendments that are the subject of our debate. In fact, this amendment, in the best way, was denied the kind of criticism that we faced the previous few days when the support that came out of the electoral promise and our clear intentions to transform society, and hence the Vojvodina, were linked to that area of our country. We cannot accept this amendment because it is clear that, based on the existing constitution and on our clear political ambitions, we today view Serbia as a territory consisting of two autonomous provinces, AP Kosovo and Metohija and AP Vojvodina. The fact is that this law has been proposed by the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, but it is also a fact that the laws can be proposed by voters, by 15,000, by the government, by the MP, and we believe that, based on the greater freedom that can be affirmed and applied through the rights given by this law in the Vojvodina area, we should not question the kind of political attitudes that are brought into question by the fixation of the Vojvodina term for this law or, in such a way, by pushing aside everything that at this moment is a very important part of our political reality, and as regards the space of Kosovo and Metohija. So, in non-compliance with this kind of amendment, we can't question the kind of political attitudes that we've expressed by defending the positions we recognize in this law. As for the good arrangement, some, you know, were editing the Krtkovci, others were watching it, and after that, they were doing Knin, Prizren, Pristina. I think that these things will change over time, how those who have dealt with urbanism in this way will become political past.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16555	Right on line, Mr. Ivkovic, to present Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16556	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs of the Socialist Party of Serbia are also proud of the 1990 constitutional solutions and of the statutes of the AP Vojvodina carried out on the basis of the constitutional solution. It was that party that was accused of nationalism that introduced a fundamental sentence into the constitution -- that the state of Serbia is the state of its citizens -- and thus demonstrated the maximum understanding and perception of the space and people living in the areas of the Republic of Serbia, in a multinational and multi-confessional environment. The constitution ended the tragedy established in 1974, a tragedy that brought Serbia into an impossible position that the environment that had the term "terrible", a terrible one, means Serbia, can finally function normally on its own territory. That constitution has prevented what is now going on. The constitution prevents the province of Vojvodina from doing what it wants, that Kosovo and Metohija can do what they want and that the Republic of Serbia can't do anything without the consent of the assemblies of both provinces. Thus, the constitution also created the values of normal life in the normal republic, evenly, as in other republics of the former Yugoslavia. However, when it comes to the autonomy of Vojvodina, the Socialist Party of Serbia has and still has an absolute understanding today for the tradition of the space, for all the specificities that the space holds. We are for the autonomy of Vojvodina, but for the autonomy of Vojvodina within a comprehensive Serbia, the autonomy of Vojvodina that will not bear separatism, that what we are walking towards, that the autonomy of Serbs from Serbs is created.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16557	People's MP Zeljo Huric, a representative of the DOS parliamentary group -- Vojvodina Reformists and the Sandzak Democratic Party reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16558	Since there have been words here about some fictional nations, I, as a member of this "invented nation", can only say that I know that I am made up as a man by God and I would like people to view me primarily that way. As to whether "Muslim" is fictional or not, it may at some point be quite wrong, but thank God, it's been corrected now. All in all, if I am made up, I wouldn't want to continue to experience tragedies because of my imagination. I'm made up to be for the greater good of everyone, the people in the country I live in and beyond.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16559	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 27, against 131, abstention 31, did not vote 6, out of 195 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Milos Lukic, an international MP, Zarko Obradovic. The proposer's representative and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The word has a folk MP Milos Lukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16560	The Honorable Presidency, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Guests, Article 1 of this Law has two positions. The first position is a practical violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, as it says the law determines the competences of an autonomous province, especially in areas where the Republic regulates the system. It is known to be a purely constitutional issue and I think there is no reason to transfer constitutional powers in this way and thus directly violate the Constitution. However, we are witnessing that practically in principle, yesterday, the Constitution was broken and that, normally, through the means of public information, we received both first congratulations and threats for those who did not vote as proposed. Article 2 is a practical violation of many laws that govern certain areas. If desired, it might have been possible, by amending certain regulations, to edit this matter in a different way. The impression from yesterday's and yesterday's session is that both those MPs and representatives of the government who practically defended this proposal were not convincing enough and I think more arguments have been made against the adoption of this law in general and against it being applied in this way. We have, in practice, several issues that are being opened by the adoption of this law, which is -- how will this law work on those people living outside the territory of the AP Vojvodina, how will these regulations be applied? Practically, we have a situation that the AP Vojvodina will be able to amend these regulations so that citizens in the rest of Serbia remain in an unequal position. Another question arises - what will happen when the federal authorities, through their inspection services, police, etc., try to get some information and some authority, which the federal state and the Republic of Serbia have, implemented on the ground - so we will get safe reactions in terms of human rights and freedoms being threatened. Then, this will be very easy to transfer to the field of the threat of national minorities, demand internationalisation of the problem, etc. For these reasons, I suggest that article 1 be deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16561	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Zarko Obradović, the applicant for the amendment to Article 1.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16562	Dearly respected presidency, fellow MPs, Mr Minister, respected representatives of the Association for Kidnapped and Missing Persons in Kosovo and Metohija, the SPS parliamentary group proposed that this member of the law be deleted because the jurisdiction of the Autonomous Province is established by the Constitution and cannot be amended by law. To remind some who do not know or do not want to know - the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in article 109 speaks of the province's competences. I will only quote here the position of Article 3 of Article 109, which states: "Autonomic province, through its organs, makes decisions and general acts, in accordance with the Constitution and the law, which regulates certain issues of interest for citizens in the autonomous province of the areas of culture; education; official use of language and letters of nationality; public notice; health and social protection; social care for children; protection and promotion of the environment; urbanism, and in other areas established by law." More important for this amendment is a member of 110, which says: "The status is the highest legal act of an autonomous province, which, under the Constitution, determines the competences of an autonomous province, choice, organisation and work of its authorities and other issues of interest for the autonomous province. The Statute of the autonomous province brings its congregation, with the previous consent of the National Assembly. "Dear fellow MPs, this is the statute of the autonomous province. We should have gotten this statute with the powers adopted by the Autonomous Province Assembly. We should have made a decision, as it was done in 1991, on giving prior consent to the Proposal for the Statute of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina, and then the Vojvodina Assembly should have adopted the statute, as it was done. It was not until afterwards that individual republican laws, which regulate certain areas, such as culture, education, social care for children, were to be implemented and entrusted with legislative matters. I'm in Article 109. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia read eight responsibilities. In this law, which we have received and which we are talking about, there are 24 powers, which in itself says enough how much it is in accordance with the Constitution. For all these reasons, the Parliamentary Group has proposed that this member be deleted, because the jurisdiction of the Autonomous Province is established by the Constitution and cannot be amended by law, especially by law, by the law of all people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16563	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? The word comes from MP Branislav Ivkovic, president of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16564	Ladies and gentlemen, MP of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, Mr. Zarko Obradovic suggested that Article 1 be deleted. It might be interesting to read out here the position of Article 1 which says: "This law determines the competences of the autonomous province, especially in areas where the Republic regulates the system". What are these areas where the Republic does not regulate the system throughout its territory? I guess the only reason the Republic is a republic is because on its own territory it regulates the system. Is St. Peter supposed to fix the system? Who? Therefore, only because of this attitude that says "especially in the areas in which the Republic regulates the system", of course the Republic will regulate the system throughout its territory. The second thing is that for certain parts of that system, jurisdiction will be transferred to lower levels of governance. Autonomous province cannot be an equal level of governance, but a lower level of governance. There is an essential requirement to delete Article 1. Please, editing autonomy in the territory of the Republic is indeed a dynamic system. This dynamic system, over time, probably also goes towards different solutions. Clearly, at the end of these different solutions are extremes - unitarianism or separatism. As close as it approaches one or the other extremes, it depends directly on political power carriers at that time on the dynamic development of the position of autonomous province on the territory of a country. About how much the remethylatic factor, in the political sense, today's circuit assembly, is best spoken by its president, who sat here yesterday, today proclaims half of this hall to fascists. According to this president, Mr. Chank, 117 MPs in this room are fascists. Here's his statement in the paper today. So 119 are good, and 117 are fascists. What is he? Why is he wearing that scarf? What does that one represent? A man's strength feels just half a foot away from him. Therefore, we are bound here, in the interest of all citizens of Serbia, and especially in the interest of the people of Vojvodina, to understand us, that we understand the tradition of this space, their specificity, that Vojvodina certainly should have autonomy, but autonomy that is part of the system, and the system is the Republic. The Republic shall regulate the system throughout its territory, and shall transfer and grant rights and competences that do not disturb the system. If what happens here, that the supervision and control of the application of the Republic laws is passed on to Vojvodina, then you gave it sovereignty. I think we have one huge responsibility for all of Serbia's citizens and that each of us should think carefully about party obedience, such as the newly-roasted autonomists from Cačka had a division between them yesterday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16565	The word is from Mr Vladan Batic, the minister of justice and local self-government.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16566	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think an artificial dilemma has been made. Article 108(2) The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 1(2). The Statute of the AP Vojvodina is prescribed that citizens in the Autonomous Province exercise their rights and fulfil the duties set out in the Constitution and the law. In further examination of this provision, the Constitution of Article 109 lists matters of particular interest for citizens in the AP Vojvodina, which it does through its organs. Provision of the competences listed in Article 109. The Constitution, i.e. in the chapter of the Statute concerning the issue of jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina, is left to the Republic of laws. That's how it was. However, in most of the laws passed since the 1990 Constitution came into force, this particularisation has either not been done at all or has been done extremely restrictively, so that these powers have been formulated to some extent which is more or less symbolic. It is precisely the status of the AP Vojvodina and in general the autonomous province is reduced to a mere declaration. That's exactly what the bill corrects.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16567	The word has been given by MP Vojislav Seselj, as president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16568	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS parliamentary group will support the amendment to delete the first member of this legislative project. I must point out here that we are rejecting the absolute explanation submitted by Branislav Ivkovic, because only one who has no idea about political theory can bear such an argument. Here Branislav Ivkovic said that unitarism and separatism are two extremes. He'd already failed his exam in the first year of every college of social science. All major democratic projects are based on the substrategic of the unitary state. A complete democratic project can only be implemented in the unitary state, as only the unitary state is ultimately implementing the principle of one man one vote. All else is the reduction of democracy in favour of other objectives. Where collective rights of certain social groups are established, the basic democratic concept is reduced. We are coming into the situation we have today in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia -- that a Montenegrin citizen is worth 17 citizens of the Republic of Serbia. If anyone claims it's democracy, he has no idea what democracy is. Federalism in this case reduces democracy, so that some other interests can be realised. In this case, when autonomy is introduced, democracy is reduced, because there are some other political interests he is considering and trying to satisfy the one who writes the constitutional text. Therefore, unitarism has nothing to do with separatism, even as an antidote. Unitarism strengthens the state, building democracy on it in a complete concept. Separatism is tearing up the country, and whoever is tearing up the country is destroying democracy, because democracy is only possible within the state. Democracy is out of state. The tighter the state, there's a chance that democracy is more complete in it. Where any deviation is made from the principle of one man's voice, there's a reduction of democracy, but there's a need to sit down, read something, learn something, but not talk about what comes to a man's mind.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16569	Right on line, MP Branislav Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16570	It's interesting to always listen to people with strong words and a powerful voice and a stasis. Probably not always long distances. I just want to say that I'm not at all affected by the fact that I'm not good at social studies, that's why I did graduate from the Technical Faculty, and I was very happy at that technical college when I got rid of such things as sociology, the political system, and I was doing what was really being created. However, I must say, at this technical college, I did a lot of work on information system theory, project management in construction. The first thing I tell my students is -- the biggest danger of one system is excess information. Any information must be timely, sufficient and understandable. In order for someone to manage the system, he must have timely information, sufficient for his level of management and comprehensible to him. There's no such thing as excessive centralization. In excessive centralised there is the greatest danger for good "right-wing" (decision making), a good decision-making process, and that is enough information, timely and understandable. Excess information reporting. That's why overcentralisation, unitarism essentially going towards total centralised and decision-making in one place, is not good. That system's falling apart. Therefore, we should always advocate the development of appropriate subsystems and the granting and transfer of competences and authorities to certain subsystems, but within the framework of the pre-established coordination system. Of course, socialists don't understand these things, it's harder to talk to them. Let me just say from that area, the civil state, a pure civil state is contrary to autonomy, because territorial autonomy essentially shows a commitment to giving greater rights to individual groups of citizens living within that territorial autonomy. We, the Socialists, precisely because of the respect for the specificity of the traditions of the Vojvodina space, are defined for territorial autonomy, aware that a certain group of citizens of the territory of the Republic of Serbia is given certain greater rights and that this is not the principle of a pure civil state. We therefore define ourselves by a restriction, which is always to be a dominant solution for the Republic of Serbia, an optimal solution, and within it to seek a balanced development of those parts. Thank you very much. (Employer Seselj, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16571	You can't, you're the one who caused the replica. I'm sorry. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 62, against 87, abstentioned 18, no vote was cast on 20, a total of 187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The proposer's representative and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16572	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the consequences of breaking the SRJ, and also of breaking the Republic of Serbia, have not yet been resolved. From the proposal itself, you can see what the proposaler comes from, of which it is allegedly a small matter and a small jurisdiction that wants to take over from the Republic of Serbia. Shouldn't forget the statements of new autonomists who recently said they wanted Vojvodina to be a republic. They recently said they needed legislative, judicial, and executive power. If they hadn't made such statements, if they hadn't advocated the state of the country, they might have believed something. Imagine what they come from, they say - give us, now trust us with the selection and appointments of court interpreters. What does that mean? Tomorrow you'll tell us - give us the right, we'll pass the law by which we choose judges. Why should the Vojvodina be an exception to the rest? This, ladies and gentlemen, is about pure covertness, and Serbia's very dangerous, separatism. In a series of activities proposed and initiated by the Social Democratic League of Vojvodina with its President, Nenada Canko, who is also president of the Vojvodina Assembly, this bill has a purely separatist significance. Namely, here in the bill, the proposed law extends allegedly self-government, which leads to secession, and there is a recent statement by Nenada Chanka, who said that seven major Vojvodina municipalities: Kikinda, Zrenjanin, Subotica, Sombor, Sremska Mitrovica, Vršac and Panchevo should get the status of cities that would allow them to become independent and rich areas. Ladies and gentlemen, who in this country has given Serbia the right to deprive someone of the right to be rich in Užice, Valjevo, Čačak, Surdulica, Nis and others, who has given this right to someone to forbid Serbian citizens and to think about it. We remember well those autonomists who were stateside. Just imagine, to mention one example, when a Turkish ambassador was killed in Belgrade, without the province's interior secretary, the republican interior secretary couldn't send an inspector to conduct an investigation to expose the unknown perpetrator. When they say -- where they are and whose money they are, where they are and whose money they are, it's better to be the money of Belgrade than New Zealand. Imagine, the southern Banat - it will have to go 200 km to Novi Sad from the White Church; imagine that during the 1974 Constitution, a student who finished high school in Pancheva had to pass five differential exams because it was such a system of education in Vojvodina and that those from Valjev, from Pogorec, from Jagodina had no problems. Five differential exams had to be passed by Panchev High School student at the Faculty of Political Sciences, and the one from Split took only one differential exam. What's this all about? Citizens of Vojvodina, and in particular I would like to refer to the citizens of South Banat, they prefer to come to the theatre of Belgrade rather than New Sad. They prefer to come to a concert at the Sava Center than to go to Spence. God forbid they go to the hospital, they better go to the Clinical Center and the clinics in Belgrade, but they better go 100km, to Novi Sad. What's this all about? The game is very dangerous. I remember separatists from Croatia and Slovenia coming to secret places and meeting in Frusch Mountain with former autonomists... (President: Time, time. )......................................................................................................... how to break the Republic of Serbia and how to break the SRJ. There's no valid reason for these very important state affairs to be entrusted to anyone. That would mean giving a child a razor, nothing else, or giving him a liter of gasoline and a match. So it's a risk. And yesterday, I watched my Ubiquitos vote for the secession of the Vojvodina. I don't know how the Uzicans would accept this, and there were MPs who voted to separate Vojvodina from the Republic of Serbia. I think this is an obvious hoax and one way to get out of the way and get to the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16573	Mr. Jojic, seven minutes. The word has been given by MP Vojislav Seselj, as president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16574	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the amendment of MP Petar Jojic, who performs in front of the SRS, should already be accepted at the beginning in order to avoid the opposition of this legislative project to Serbia's current constitution. In Article 72. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia is characterised by the basic competences of the Republic of Serbia, which the Republic of Serbia, through its bodies and institutions, regulates and provides. In Article 109. Serbia's constitution is specified what are the competences of autonomous provinces, which autonomous provinces implement through their organs. Nowhere here in Article 109. The Constitution does not have the possibility to amend Articles 72 and to give jurisdiction to an autonomous province. However, Article 109 said in the last position that the Republic of Serbia can, by law, entrust the autonomous province with certain tasks under its rights and responsibilities and transfer funds to it for these jobs. Therefore, it was possible to pass a law that would have the Republic of Serbia entrusted the Autonomous province with very specific tasks, not jurisdiction, jurisdiction remains in the Republic of Serbia, but with matters of these competences, so that the Republic of Serbia would not double its bureaucracy or if it were to assess that this could be done more easily through the province's authorities, so that these transactions were entrusted to the province's authorities. That is the essence of the constitutional provision. You're directly bringing something that's against the constitution here. And finally, for those who may have taken Branislav Ivkovic too seriously: you know, a man may not know anything, but when he does not know, he should sit down, not brag that he did not want to read books in the area. Not to boast of his knowledge.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16575	Please, Mr. Seselj, it's not a topic...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16576	When someone behind this speaker says they're the same unitarism and centralism, it's the same as if someone were to convince you that the exhaust and the battery are the same thing. It is the same for you when Branislav Ivkovic says that centralism and unitarism are the same thing. I don't have the time and patience to give you political lectures every day, you learn something yourself. Who doesn't learn how to answer a word and go out for a pay phone?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16577	Is anyone else answering for word on this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 52, against 87, with 16 abstentions, 22 were not voted, a total of 177 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Ratimir Svirčević, Zivica Predojev, Teodora Vlahović and Kermeci Karolj. The proposer's representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. If he wants a word? He doesn't want to. Does anyone else want a word? He doesn't want to. I put the amendments to the vote. For 27, against 108, abstentioned 15, 27 of the 177 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Novica Djuraskovic. The proposer's representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There's a word from MP Novi Đuraskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16578	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, in Article 1(2). The bill also states that this law regulates certain issues relating to the establishment, organisation and operation of organisation units of republican funds and institutions in the territory of an autonomous province. If an autonomous province has the right to establish, then it is also necessary to specify what it is, and I suggest that Article 1(2) says "organisation and work", they add the words "continent funds and institutions", and they remain as organisational units of republican institutions and funds. Nothing changes, it's just one technical correction. I would point to only one thing - if the province is entrusted with the establishment, then, in my opinion, it needs to be specified and what the province's foundation is. I would point only to one more fact -- in a New Year's address, President Vojislav Kostunica said that Vojvodina wants to be as rich as nature has given. He forgot, apparently, that there are people living in Vojvodina, that the Duchy of Vojvodina live, and that nature itself is not enough and that natural resources are not enough, if they are not managed and not managed by people who are directly interested in the opportunities that nature provides for them. I think with this one correction, we would make it clear to all citizens that the citizens of Vojvodina are also able to establish, manage and organise the work of their institutions, their funds, as organisational units of republican institutions and funds. In recent days, I've heard a lot about how I've been autonomous and separatist -- by this amendment, I think I'm denying it, because I want the circuit funds, the province's institutions to be organisational units of republican institutions and funds, not special states, but only one autonomous province, within the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16579	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 20, against 116, with 17 abstentions, 30 of the 183 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Milos Lukic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The proposer's representative and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There is a word from MP Milos Lukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16580	By amendment to Article 2 of the proposed law, I have proposed that this article be deleted. I did this for two reasons -- the first reason this member himself doesn't say anything. In fact, this is a simple broad sentence, which says that this law regulates certain issues relating to the establishment, organisation and operation of the organisational units of the republican funds, institutions, etc., that the autonomous province, in accordance with the statute, regulates certain issues of interest to its citizens, as well as the way they are implemented, and in particular the competences of the bodies and education of organisations and institutions and the provision of their functioning, in accordance with the Constitution and the law. All that is written doesn't really mean anything, given that the Statute of the Vojvodina has not been changed, that the regulations on which it is concerned have not been changed. So this sentence is from that language and from a purely formal and legal point of view too high. But the point seems to be something else -- the point is that this member, as well as the whole law, wants the citizens of Vojvodina to be given some rights at this point, which other Serbian citizens do not have. The logical question arises -- why didn't we wait until the constitution was first adopted and this issue was settled through the decentralisation of the republican government, so that at the same time other areas in the state of Serbia could regulate their rights, in the way that it is now allowed for the citizens of Vojvodina. I'm asking a logical question -- what happens if we come up with some solutions that are not in line with this current solution? Then we will have a lot of problems to convince the authorities and the citizens of Vojvodina to then give up some, at least minimal, rights and to give those rights evenly to all citizens, regardless of which areas they come from and whatever area they relate to. We must all be aware that at that moment it will not be possible and that it will be a source of very large and very sharp conflicts. The Prime Minister, defending this legal solution, said the following - should go cautiously and gradually, because this is a very sensitive matter. We certainly agree with the need to go gradually and go cautiously, and that this is sensitive matter, however, it would mean that it is actually going gradually, to change the Constitution first, to amend certain system laws, that only on that basis, on one sound basis, it goes into the realization of such an undertaking. I would like to point out once again that yesterday we witnessed that a law was passed here, which certainly already causes certain comments in public, and surely this assembly did not win popularity, especially the part that voted for this law. In my opinion, this still looks like the creation of a state in the country, a little bit, by transferring the jurisdiction of the state. I don't think it ever happened, and you'll correct me if I'm wrong, that you're some rights you gave up the next day you managed to get back. These questions are really constantly intertwined here -- what autonomy is and what is decentralisation. In this particular case, it is a typical case for decentralisation, for the transfer of those powers which are state-owned and concerning the work of certain services and bodies. So those two terms we mixed up. We often compare ourselves with Western countries, we say that they have areas that are autonomous, etc., but we have to be constantly aware and keep in mind what circumstances we live in, which is the standard of our citizens, how companies work in certain areas of our country and whether we have this material basis for implementing such decentralisation. As for those who don't know the Rules of Procedure, I apologize, but within these five minutes so much. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16581	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? Here, there is the word Zeljo Huric, as representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16582	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is the first amendment from a whole set of amendments to the Serbian Unity Party. They're all in the same text. So it's just standing - on a member, and - it's deleted. As far as the reformist reformist group and the Sandzak Democratic Party are concerned, all these amendments are inconclusive, and in some ways pointless, and we will vote against all these amendments. So this performance of mine also means intervention on all other amendments that come from these MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16583	The People's MP Borislav Pelevic has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16584	Dear citizens of Serbia, the Honorable Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the respected representatives of NGOs present in this Chamber, you have not struck me at all, Mr. MP, with your statement. I didn't expect you to vote for any amendment to the Serbian Unity Party. It's your right and your right can't disturb us or confuse us at all. We've submitted 32 amendments. Most of these amendments are proposed to delete individual members. In the principle debate, we said we wanted to delete this whole law on the return of jurisdiction to the province of Vojvodina, because it was not the law on the return of jurisdiction, but it was, in fact, the cornerstone of the founding of an independent republic of Vojvodina. You reformers and you from Sandzak, as you call it, and we call it the Raška area, since the first Serbian state was created there (and, as you know, Sandzak is the Turkish term for the Turkish military area; since that area is no longer under Turkish occupation, thank God, we call that area Raška area; you call it whatever you want and no one forbids you to call it what you want and live there), live there and be loyal citizens of Serbia and there is no problem. But don't usurp your rights so much, you and your colleagues, not yourself, but your colleagues from that SDA party, or whatever it's called, run by Suljo Ugljanin. Many Serbs in the Raška area are selling their apartments and houses because they can no longer suffer the evil of your favorite politician, Sulejman Ugljanin. Let us conduct ourselves in the congregation as our constituents require, that we vote against the adoption of this law, because we believe that it leads to evil. Yesterday I spoke, and here I am today saying that simply the representatives of the promoter are not here. In fact, there's one, Mr. Kasa's here, but he's been doing the crosswords all this time, reading the papers. He didn't find it appropriate to go out for a pay phone and explain this law. How can we trust him when he seeks to establish a Hungarian regional self-government in Serbia, in northern Bačka. I don't mind any regional self-government, but don't call it ethnic names. Why - Hungarian, why - Muslim? Let this be the regional self-government of all citizens who live there, because the name itself is very discriminatory and very indicative, and the name itself brings anxiety to the majority Serbian people living in Vojvodina and Serbia. Therefore, we repeat our position in the principle debate - we will not support this law. We believe that it is not a law that restores the autonomy of Vojvodina, but that it is a law that leads to the dissipation of hatred in Vojvodina between 26 ethnic communities and the majority Serbian people, and we believe that it cannot contribute to the calming of tensions, that it cannot contribute to the introduction of equality for all citizens and tolerances among all citizens living in the territory of Vojvodina. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16585	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 49, against 86, with 17 abstentions, 30 of the 182 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Stevan Kesejic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The proposer's representative and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16586	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, having taken this law at all, as it is called - the omnibus, is so tenorous and perfiduous that the MPs of the SRS had to read this law really carefully and pay attention not only to every sentence but also to the interpretation and every letter, because in a very perfiduous way, the promoter wants to take over the powers belonging to the Republic of Serbia through this law. In view of the moral virtues of the promoter, we had an obligation to search the law really well. The paroles the promoter had in the pre-election campaign in 1997, and even before, and after that, they also spoke in favour of what I've been saying so far, so on one deviousness and perfidence. Namely, "whose money is our money" and "whose budgets" were just words that were meant to deceive citizens of Serbia, or the people of Vojvodina, who, possibly wanting to live better, would give confidence to such political parties that had the sole interest and interest in the leverage of authorities moving from Belgrade to Vojvodina. This would be of no use to citizens in any city, so the local self-government in the first place would be of no use, but, above all, the promoter, thanks to the votes received, could implement the titoistic policy, as it also calls for the 1974 Constitution, which also confirms its final intentions. Therefore, Article 2 also tried, by introducing the word "authority" to take over responsibilities that do not belong to the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina, nor can they belong to it, because that jurisdiction regulates the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in Article 110(1), which states that the Statute is the highest legal act of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina, which, under the Constitution, determines the jurisdiction of the Autonomous Province, the choice, the organisation and the work of its bodies. Here, in Article 2, it is said that the authority's jurisdiction is taken over by the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina, which will say that one such sentence the proposer wants to take over responsibilities that do not belong to the Autonomous province and that is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. This issue regulates the province's statutes and therefore cannot be determined by this law, but can only, or exclusively, be entrusted with certain transactions provided for by the Statute in the Autonomous Province. That is why I propose that Article 2 "the authority's jurisdiction" be deleted and that as much as possible, to this member, as well as to other members to whom Serbian Radical Party MPs have amendments, the Separatist aspirations of the motionor are impossible.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16587	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? The word is made by MP Tomislav Nikolic as representative of the SRS parliamentary group, deputy president.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16588	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Radical Party has tabled 58 amendments to this bill. First of all, I would like to point out here a constant remark that we have on the Legislative Committee, which is that the Legislative Committee engages in what is not his job defined by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Why does the Legislative Committee, each time declaring the amendments of the Serbian Radical Party, write in the report that it did not accept the amendments of the SRS because they do not agree with the concept of the law? Is it not the job of the Legislative Committee to determine whether the draft law or amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and with the legal system? Why is the Legislative Committee not for those 13 amendments to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which was not accepted by the legislator, why did he not tell them that they were not in conformity with the concept of the law and that they were not accepted? If the AP Vojvodina Assembly has adopted 17 amendments to the Government, the 13 amendments are not in line with the concept of the law, then the law of the Legislative Committee to tell our amendments that it does not accept them because they do not comply with the concept of the law, and it does not say about the amendments to the Government, although it is obvious that they do not comply with the concept of the law, since it did not agree with them by the legislator. Why always discrimination against the amendments of the Serbian Radical Party? What if a bill had come to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to regulate some issues from the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina? Immediately, the legal public, especially the Vojvodina Assembly, would react and say that these are the competences of an autonomous province and that we must not reduce the competences of an autonomous province entrusted to it by the Constitution. Now, shut up and even most votes for the bill, which, past the established competences of the autonomous province, determines some new competences. At the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Prime Minister carried out a terrible attack here on the first day of his life (read the stenographic notes); a poor country in which the Prime Minister said that the constitution is not worth it and that it should not be respected. Then, in order for that mistake to be corrected, after two days one of his representatives in this assembly comes out and says that the Constitution must be respected, as it is. Such a single constitution clearly differentiated jurisdiction. The constitution lays down the powers of the AP Vojvodina, and for those powers it adopts a Statute that has the previous consent of the Serbian Parliament and which must be in accordance with the Constitution. This is being checked by the Constitutional Court of Serbia, which you, of course, do not want to establish. The law has no right to determine the jurisdiction of an autonomous province, even if it is brought here unanimously by the National Assembly of 250 MPs. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia cannot harm the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia either. He can't change him and he can't ignore him, he can't disrespect him. The name of this law does not respect the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. In the Statute of Vojvodina, it can say - this statute determines the jurisdiction of the Autonomous Province, and it is the right of an autonomous province, and then someone will appreciate whether it is in accordance with the Constitution of Serbia or not, but in a law passed by the Serbian Parliament, it must not be said that we here determine the jurisdiction of the Autonomous Province. We usurp their rights. Then listen to us and stop the autonomy. Then we'll determine by law what everything in Vojvodina can be done and what can't be done. You can't break the Constitution because it suits you and keep your mouth shut. One day someone will break the Constitution and it won't suit you, so they'll tell you what you kept quiet the last time it suits you. There must be some principle on which MPs in the National Assembly will behave and vote. Our basic attachment, our oath is the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. What's wrong with the Constitution? We suggested you change it last year. You then had a two-thirds majority in this assembly to change the Constitution and perhaps you had the mood of citizens for a good referendum on which to change the Constitution. Things have changed today. The constitution does not change individually, with partial proposals to be made by trade in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. And decide once finally whether DOS won Vojvodina because Canak was in DOS or Canak won Vojvodina because he was in DOS. Did Serbian citizens vote for Canka or DOS in Vojvodina?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16589	Is anyone else answering for word on this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. 43, against 87, with 15 abstentions, did not vote 28, out of 173 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Miroljub Veljkovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The proposer's representative and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The amendmentr wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16590	The proposed solution in Article 3 of this Act is not good and it is not good for at least two reasons. The first is that the proposed solution simply doubles the bodies financed from the budget. It doesn't matter to the people of Srem, Banat and Backo whether there's a state administration from Belgrade on his back or whether there's an autonomous administration from Novi Sad on his back. What's the worst thing about this solution? The fact that we're practically loading two administrations on the back of that people. This legal solution doubles the bodies that this people finance from the budget and that is quite obvious. Even in the March 7th 2001 Declaration brought by the Vojvodina Assembly, it is clear that Vojvodina will introduce its taxes, etc. You don't think Djelic will give up his taxis, his fiscal income? Another reason why this member should be changed (and it would be even better if we voted on the law in general if we didn't even pass this law) first of all has a national historical dimension. By adopting this law, we would practically hit the basis for starting, noting, autonomy, then a new republic, and in the second stage of a completely independent state in the work of the current state territory. That was openly said to us two days ago by a National MP, a member of the Chunk League. The man opened up from this assembly pay phone told us -- the political goal of the Republic of Vojvodina, in the first stage. I wonder, isn't the historical experience from the recent past, all that's been happening to us for the last 10 or 12 years, enough to know that this is going to happen in Vojvodina, quite certain? Now I want to ask you, the MPs of DOS, who supported this law yesterday, are you aware of your historical responsibilities if you allow your votes to adopt such a law? When I say "history responsibility," I don't mean some collective responsibility of yours, but above all, I mean absolutely your personal responsibility. You will certainly not be able to amnesty, when it comes to what is quite certain, by what you say - it was a party attitude, we did not know that it would escalate in that direction, we were in error, etc. No, dear colleagues and honourable MPs, your responsibility is personal. I'm warning you about that. In this home, we should differ in our opinions on many issues. That's why there's a parliamentary debate. After all, the programs of our parties are different. We can differ here by how the fiscal sphere should be regulated, how social legislation should be regulated, and we can even differ from what we think of the law on homosexual marriages, etc. And we need to differ, argue and debate. I guess that's undeniable. However, I am asking you from DOS, who supported this law, specifically two things - should we differ when it comes to national - state interest and whether, for the sake of petty political interests, the type, for example, support 18 autonomous parliamentary votes to the Government of Serbia, should we cancel out, about 200 years of Serbian history? Nenad Canak openly said - we promised Zoran Djindjic and the government that we would give them support when the Labour Act was passed, and that is why he promised us that he would give us this law. You were all witnessing yesterday that poor "stealing" one of the political options in the Republika Srpska Assembly, and that political option led by the Chetnik colonel. Imagine, the Chetnik colonel with his votes, the votes of his MPs, supported Chanka, Isaac, Kasu, etc. Worst of all, he supported the 1974 constitutional solution of Joseph Broz Tito. Chetnik colonel. I just don't know what the people of Chack and the environment are gonna say about it. There's something I'd like to ask you to think about. Dear DOS MPs, you should remember, however, that you are the descendants of those heroes from the First and Second Serbian uprising, the Herzegovic uprising, you are the descendants of those heroes from the Balkan and First World Wars, who have cemented the common Serbian state. Let Chanka, Vesenov and Joseph Broz Tito think about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16591	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? The word is by MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16592	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Radical Party in this article responds to a harsh violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia because in this article of the law, it is said that it will do so in the exercise of the jurisdiction established by this law by an autonomous province. I would remind you of Article 110(1). The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says: "The status is the highest legal act of an autonomous province, which, under the Constitution, determines the competences of the autonomous province... "You don't need to be told anything further. How can you say that this law will determine the jurisdiction of an autonomous province when the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia says that the statute is the highest legal act of an autonomous province and that it determines the competences of an autonomous province. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia cannot change the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It's not a right, not even a two-thirds majority. It's just the basis for a referendum. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has no right to change the Statute of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina or the Autonomous Region of Kosovo and Metohija. This is the right passed on to the Constitution of the Autonomous Province, to adopt its own statutes, to establish its jurisdiction, and to amend its statutes under the rules it adopts in the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina. Where are you going for a wider autonomy? Why did the motions of this law not approach the amendments to the Statute of the AP Vojvodina? Why didn't they adopt a new statute? There is no Constitutional Court of Serbia anyway, and now you can write whatever you want. Serbia has no more protection than writers of various draft laws none of which are in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Why should you humiliate the messengers of the people, say from the Fireman or from the Casca, to decide with their voice whether one day, when Vojvodina is separated, someone will tell them whether you were from the Chačka to separate or what you were from the Fireman for or what you were from the Kragujevac for? Why are you transferring historical sin to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? This isn't where he's getting rid of it. When the Constitution imagines the autonomy of the Vojvodina, it is so wide that the AP Vojvodina has direct constitutional protection. The Serbian Parliament cannot attack it, nor decide what its rights are. The rights of the Autonomous Region are determined by the Constitution and the Statute of the AP Vojvodina. No one else, nor the Prime Minister, nor the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It's autonomy, huge, widest possible. You write your own statutes. What are we going to write here about what you're going to do in Vojvodina? What do we decide if you're going to fish on one side of the Danube or on both sides, and you're reading us here on some noodle, where there's no bait, but you're just banging on the water and the catfish are being picked on by a durdubak, what would the fishermen say? What is this attitude towards the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? It's not a scratch. This is the highest legislative body. He should not be called on to be humiliated and not called upon to violate the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. At least this is a place where the Constitution of Serbia should not be hurt, but you who want secession, you who want a republic, then the secession, you who write the Constitution of Vojvodina, sit down and write it down and try to put it into life, you who want to arrange life for yourselves in Vojvodina, you who ask where your money is - go to Casa Joseph and ask him. He knows best where your money is. He was stocking up on that money.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16593	Mr. Nikolic, I give you a reminder based on Article 103 because you have spoken offensively.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16594	I'm so glad I can tell the truth to everyone in my eyes, your reminders don't scare me at all. As long as there's evidence behind me, the power of argument, and as long as I have love behind me, both for Vojvodina and for Piroth, I will speak for this speaker what lies on my heart, and you think, lady, why do you stop me every time I specifically call someone who decides our fate?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16595	Because I exclusively respect the Rules of Procedure, and it forbids it to express offensive terms and facts of private life. You know it and you always break it. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? The speaker of the Serb Unity Party's parliamentary group, MP Borislav Pelevic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16596	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is clear to me why the promoters did not approach the revision of the Statute of the Republic of Vojvodina. They have not joined the revision of the Statute precisely because they are preparing the draft constitution of the Republic of Vojvodina, because 14 parties and NGOs from Vojvodina are already working to prepare the draft constitution of the Vojvodina. The Constitution is a basic act of the Republic, not a province. The Statute is the basic act of the province. So it falls into the water all the stories of the promoter that this is all about restoring the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina. The Serbian Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Joseph Kasa, is present in the role of one of the motions, so he can go out for a pay phone and explain why his party is also preparing the draft constitution of Vojvodina and whether it is for the Republic of Vojvodina or whether it is for the AP Vojvodina. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16597	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 51, against 87, with 20 abstentions, 29 of the 187 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. The proposer's representative and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Is the applicant of the amendment present in the O.R.? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 49, against 88, abstentioned 18, 32 of the 187 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Jankovic. The proposer's representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Zarko Obradovic, deputy president of the SPS parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16598	Dear fellow Members, our colleague Jankovic, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, has submitted the amendment, because we believe it is necessary to remove any possibility in the interpretation and implementation of this law that the province's authorities should be treated as a republican i.e. State authorities. Namely, this member of the law has completely left an empty and unsettled question of mutual relations - what kind of relationship the Republic authorities and authorities of territorial autonomy are in, local self-government, whether it is in authority, subordination, and sub-compromisation of one another. I am saying this for the simple reason why we Socialists, saying yesterday about this law in principle, have proved that many of the provisions of this law are contrary to the existing law of the Republic of Serbia, that they are not in agreement with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, that there are also members in which the Autonomous province gives consent to the tasks in the jurisdiction of the Republic, that unfortunately there are members in which the Autonomous Province absolutely comes out of its rights. Not only does it assume the authority of the republican authorities, but it also takes over areas within the jurisdiction of the federal state. We also said yesterday that the law contains a number of members whose autonomous province assumes powers that cannot possibly belong to it, such as the issue of administrative oversight and even control over the application of republican laws covered by this bill. At that time, we said that this issue of administrative oversight belonged only to the Republic and not to the Autonomous province. We also said that there are members in this bill who establish new bodies that the Constitution does not know, and in particular does not know in the area of competence of the Autonomous province, because it determines jurisdiction, as well as that the Autonomous province has established itself through this bill of jurisdiction that only the state can carry out, such as certain issues in the area of the judicial system. For all these reasons, and others that our fellow MPs mentioned yesterday, we believe that this amendment should be adopted, because it absolutely regulates and determines the relationship between the authorities of territorial autonomy and the state authorities. We wouldn't want to think that this was deliberately done, but perhaps, based on what we heard yesterday and today by the people who spoke positively about this law, it might not be an accident -- that it was deliberately abandoned by some provision, that it would actually be implemented, as we Socialists said yesterday, that it was absolutely an attempt to compromise the organs of territorial autonomy against the republican organs. For this reason, I believe that this amendment should be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16599	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16600	The SRS is against autonomy and I deny this claim by the Prime Minister that no serious political party is against autonomy. I refer him to the political party's seriousness as being measured by the number of votes won in the elections, as well as that any parliamentary political party should be called by state authorities by a serious political party. It's one of the basics that we handle when we discuss the bill. This is the only member, as far as I can remember, that we suggested erasing. We did not want to suggest by eradicating all members that there is no possibility in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia that further certain businesses should be entrusted to the AP Vojvodina. That is why we have tried to correct the amendments to the entire bill, so that it is in accordance with the Constitution and maximum, the maximum capacity of autonomy which, according to the current Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and now, can be obtained by an autonomous province (both Vojvodina and Kosovo and Metohija) of God's health one day to receive, and even with this bill. Why are we just about to delete Article 4. A bill of law? For the sake of the public, I must read how it reads: "In the exercise of the powers laid down by this law, the province's authorities are co-operating with the republican authorities and the authorities of local self-government." Now I'm going to read you Article 71 of Section 2. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia: "Other authorities and organisations in the Republic of Serbia can be entrusted with the enforcement of laws and other regulations and general acts under the rights and duties of the Republic of Serbia, by being responsible for their enforcement." There is no co-operation between the authorities of the autonomous province, local self-government and the Republic of Serbia to carry out trusted tasks. There's a hierarchy. The Republic of Serbia is responsible, which is why it will exercise control and control. You know, co-operation involves two equal partners. If someone's doing your job that you've entrusted him with, you'll probably be controlling how he does it, not working with him. This is one of those pranks. So you must have heard how he reacted last night to Nenad Canak, the alpha and the omega DOS in Vojvodina, when they asked him to comment on the fact that with one vote of privilege he passed the law in principle. He said - we write the constitution. Do not deceive us after this speaker, although I am convinced that no one will ever go out to praise or speak positively about the bill. That job, that hard work you did yesterday. Don't convince us anymore that the people who propose this and behind this deserve our trust, trust in the sense that the state will remain unique to us if they ask themselves. If those who have proposed this law are asked, Serbia will no longer look like today. If they insist that if we do not pass this law that other methods will be resolved, expect Solana in Novi Sad. And then I'm interested in which one of you DOS is going to go to these conversations, or should I say, those negotiations. How will DOS negotiate with himself. On the one hand, the sitting DOS - Canak, Isaac, Kasa. On the other hand, the sitting DOS -- Kostunica, Djindjic, because when you talk to one country, it is likely that the highest state authorities will go. Please take this bill seriously. It is not a toy, it will have terrible consequences, even for the safety of citizens in the Republic of Serbia. The threat that Canak has made may not be taken seriously only by people who have not crossed into Serbia or who have been under the age of ten this ten-year-old, thorny time. For those of you who were adolescence in 1990 and who are still alive today, this is the repetition of everything you've seen, and then it's better to learn from other people's mistakes than yours, it hurts a lot.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16601	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. ) I am putting on the vote by the amendments submitted by Milan Jankovic to Article 4. For 55, against 100, abstentioned 24, 10 of the 189 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Petar Petrovic submitted to the 5th amendment. The proposer's representative and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The applicant of the amendment wants a word, MP Petar Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16602	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is one of a series of amendments submitted by the Assembly Group of the Soviets, proposing that individual members be deleted. To clarify to a respected fellow MP, who came out here and said it was pointless and so forth, that we could not as a parliamentary group correct the text of the amendments if we were in principle not to agree with him and if the law was unconstitutional and not in agreement with many republican laws, as it was said here, with 24 republican laws that regulate various areas of social life in the Republic of Serbia. One of these amendments is my amendment to Article 5, which I have proposed to delete the same member, and it is about protecting cultural goods in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, thus also in the territory of the province of Vojvodina. Cultural goods are of general interest to all citizens of Serbia, and I think their protection must be equally regulated, no matter what part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Also, there is a Republic Cultural Goods Protection Act and it regulates the way, methods, establishment, inspection, supervision of cultural goods in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. However, I think the point in this law and this member is next - in this article I would like to apostrophe point 8) which says that autonomous province should be entrusted with businesses to issue permits to foreign citizens for the use of archival construction and filmed archival buildings. Please, where and in which country does the Republic lower the level of authorisation for the use of archival and film buildings on lower organs? Who's going to control that thing not to be used for what purposes? Also, members of the boards of directors, supervisors and so on are required to be appointed, in particular at point 13, to issue permits for the transfer of fixed cultural goods in the territory of the autonomous province to a new location. God forbid the constitution of the Republic of Vojvodina be adopted, who knows where a certain cultural good of historical importance would be transferred to the Serbian people. For these and many other reasons, I suggest you adopt this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16603	The word has a People's MP... The basis for the replica? You can get your word as president of the parliamentary group in the context of an amendment debate, there is no basis for replication. [[National Ambassador Zeljo Huric from the site requests a replica.]] You want a word like the president of the parliamentary group? No, I don't. ( ) Does any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 48, against 98, abstention 24, was not voted 18, out of a total of 188 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Živodarka Dacin. The proposer's representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16604	On behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 5(1) to delete: "The Regional Institute for the Protection of Cultural Monuments in Novi Sad, the Archival of Vojvodina in Novi Sad, the Library of the Mother of Serbia in Novi Sad, the Museum of Vojvodina in Novi Sad" and everything else from point 2) to point 18) which would be consistent with the proposed changes. It explains that the institutions mentioned in the current Law on the Culture of the Republic of Serbia have been singled out because they have great importance for the whole of the Republic. Through them, the interests of all Serbian citizens are realised and satisfied. They have multicultural significance in the entire cultural space of the Republic of Serbia. Here I must say that I was pleasantly surprised when we received a report that practically the Government of the Republic of Serbia submitted an amendment partly identical to mine where it suggested that only the Institute for the Protection of Cultural Monuments should be exempted from this. I believe that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is very aware that this amendment is consistent and that this is exactly how it should have been suggested that I did it, but simply because of some makeup, it was only done partially. I'd like to try a little more arguments to convince you to vote in favour of this amendment. Since it is a government amendment, I would like to say that the status of the Vojvodina Archives is a state and national issue. It preserves the history and culture of all national communities in all the languages that are in official use, as well as those that are celebrated in everyday life. It also collects new buildings according to the most modern methodology of work that is relevant to all national communities and citizens in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Secondly, the Serbian Matice Library in Novi Sad is one of the oldest and most professional cultural institutions of the Serbian people, and it, along with the Serbian Matica, has always done jobs in the area of library and parent service for the entire Serbian people, but also to keep books of all national communities in Vojvodina. That is enough reason for it to have a republican significance, as otherwise it would only partially achieve the interests of a region such as Vojvodina, at the expense of the entire state cultural interest. And lastly, the Vojvodina Museum in Novi Sad was founded in 1847; it was founded by Teodor Pavlovic under the name "Serbian National Collection". So, apparently, the Mother founded the Vojvodina, not the other way around. The museum is kept from prehistoric to modern times. He is the mirror of the common life of all the nations. It would be very illogical if he had only province significance, because there are exhibits mostly related to the lives of the Serbian people and part related to the lives of Hungarians, Slovaks, Romanians and Russians. I think it would be a lot more cellular if it was suggested that both the Museum and the Library return to the Matrix. This is just so much, because of all those who are considered invited to talk about culture in Vojvodina. I appeal once again to all MPs that, at least by voting for this amendment, we are correcting what would be very important for the culture of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16605	Thank you very much. Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? He doesn't want to. ) If not, I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 54, against 95, abstention 21, did not vote 16 out of 186 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. The proposer's representative and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There's a word from MP Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16606	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the proposal to be presented in Article 5 is something that has already been seen before, and something that is known, especially for those of us who live in Vojvodina. This Article 5 is prescribed by the Statute and the Constitution, which has been valid since 1974 in Vojvodina. In the area of culture, it is identical with what happened and what was written in 1974 in the Statute and the Constitution of Serbia. Which is why and what is the danger of adopting such a member, as suggested by the Proposer, the Vojvodina Assembly - a danger in the field of culture - is not much to be explained by anyone but smart and written. The stories and phrases, that within a nation there are differences in culture, that they would be the basis for creating a new entity, these are stories based on Marks, Engels, and conducted by Joseph Broz, and his pitometaries are now serving us this story. There is, gentlemen, an integral, national culture of a nation. The nuances, the differences that exist only enable and enrich the culture of that people. Such a story was also told when an artificial nation was created, Montenegrin, and when the artificial people were created, Macedonian. That's the same story told. A story like that was told in the Vojvodina in the '70s. It is interesting that at that time, cultural institutions, which were the foundation of the existence and survival of the Serb people in Vojvodina, were hit: the Mother of Serbia, the Serbian National Theatre and the Serbian Reading Room. Now, with this bill, the original proposal, the same effect is being achieved. What is wanted -- on behalf of some internationalization, delete everything that is characteristic of both Serbian and Hungarian, and Slovak, and all other cultures of all those peoples and peoples living in Vojvodina. There is no Hungarian partial culture in Vojvodina. It is no different from the culture of the Hungarian people living in the queen. She's just enriched by some shades, and nothing else. Gentlemen, if you were showing great concern not only for the majority Serb people, but, as you claim, for members of the national minorities, for not putting into your jurisdiction the Hungarian theatre in Novi Sad, why did you not put to it materially, to be the founders of the theatre, to develop a culture of members of that Hungarian people living in Vojvodina, which you do not place as founders and material support for libraries and readings of the Slovak national minority, the Russian national minority, the Romanian national minority? No, your goal is to endanger the Serbian national interest, and don't hide. Why do I doubt that? I am rightly doubtful because the current assembly of the Vojvodina Assembly is only a shade different from that of the composition that was in Vojvodina in 1942 - and then a couple of Serbs were pushed into that assembly, so that they would have a mask to be multinational, so that then fascists would have masks as they were Democrats. It's the same current composition, and it gives us the right to doubt your good intentions. Gentlemen, on the other hand, there are no majority of those present in 1974 who have implemented the Constitution, but there are their descendants, their heirs, their sons, their sons-in-laws. And as for the education structure -- well, that hasn't changed anything. We had no more illiterate government and government in Vojvodina than this, headed by the Vojvodina Executive Council, was not an illiterate man from less school than he is now, not even after 1945. Imagine what a tragedy -- not even more written than those who graduated from the famous Partizan high school. And this man, these men, to trust such legal powers, no one who knows and takes care of all of us who live in Vojvodina will allow it. On the other hand, there's always talk of the division of love for Vojvodina. The love of all who live in Serbia is equal and equal to Vojvodina. Don't take it, especially you, individuals, who have a family tradition and you know very well what it means in these decisive moments to make the wrong move. That's what you know very well and don't look up to yourself, you individuals, the others. They were under Titus's communist robe until yesterday.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16607	Anyone else want a word? There is a word from MP Tomislav Nikolic, a representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16608	The execution of Serbia's national space, of course, began before World War II, during the monarchy over us. It was continued by communists in 1945, tragically assigning Croatia's Serbian national spaces and breaking the Serbian National Corps to new fictional nations, and then in 1974, and what they couldn't separate from the Berlin Wall by giving huge powers to certain Serbian territories, to make local age and flight feel like someone who could do more than the queen can. And now imagine that tragedy of the Serbian people, that these solutions, like those contained in Article 5, are written by the same people who wrote a constitution in 1974 that seems to have, at least in some parts, completely and definitely divided us. What they would say about me in Shumadia -- instead of that Zivan Berisavljevic pulled nicely and died, he wrote the constitution again, 30 years after a constitution that broke us. Don't act like a member of the 5th fat unit regulation when buying milk. Don't act like this is the fish growing law in the aquarium. These are the preconditions, i.e. the creation of preconditions, for several months for the assembly of the AP Vojvodina to wait for us with the constitution and then to say, "Are you writing Serbia's new constitution? This is your starting point for the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. We're not going under this. We can only talk about what else can be taken. And this law, when it's worked out in the Duke's constitution, hope - the Republic of Vojvodina, I know there will be a constitution of the state. The republics in Serbia's territory cannot be established. I guarantee you that. You can try to establish states, so it depends on the people. If the people want to commit another suicide like in 2002, if there are still others alive after that flood, then they can do one more. But you here list all that you know is that the finger is around the Serbian people -- its history in one territory, and we are only different from that through Sava and Danube. It doesn't make any difference. Not even in origin. Maybe we've all settled all of these places in ten villages. And now what is it that divides us? Besides communism and monarchy, who else shared us? What do you like so much about the 1974 Communist Constitution? We'll come to the local communities as well. What you like about Cardell so much - well he died, people. He's gone, he's buried, there's a monument in Ljubljana. Don't play games. I watched Nenad Canak carry some works of art in Vukovar. If they are indeed from Vukovar, Serbia should have returned them, but Serbia, the state of Serbia. What republican authority has decided to take some works of art to Vukovar and hand them over to the Croatian state? How many pieces did he turn in, but how much did he sell? Who searched his trunk on his way out of Serbia and headed towards Vukovar. What customs examined him, and what law did he bear in his hand when he was wearing these works of art? When they begin to remove stone by stone from cultural goods, which happen to be in the territory of the Vojvodina, and when they start blowing them up and the winds, don't remember that you were involved in all this, because then it'll be really late.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16609	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 49, against 96, with 25 abstentions, 15 of the 185 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 5 of the amendment. The proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Do authorized participants in the debate want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16610	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it would be more useful for the promoter to accept this amendment, because it would not put us in a position to, as Parliament, discuss whether it is necessary to respect the law or not. This proposed solution raises the question of the Cultural Goods Act, because the origin of a cultural institution is not really defined as prescribed by this proposal, but on the basis of a mobile, immovable cultural good. If culturally well-aligned, then it also determines its parenthood. So this amendment actually stemmed from the need to avoid certain problems that might follow the application of this law in concrete situations, not from the need to suspend some of the rights that we are insisting on and that we will defend despite the opposition's criticism. So it would be good if the parliamentary majority understood the position of the DOS parliamentary group and fully respected it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16611	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 99, against 41, with 26 abstentions, 15 of the 181 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Deretic and Zoran Novakovic. The proposer's representative and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Do the applicants want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16612	The Honorable Presidency, respected colleagues, respected listeners, we have submitted an amendment to Article 6 of the proposed law, which at first glance looks like a technical solution, as not so important. What's this about? It's about an inspection in cinema. We believe that this bill has been adopted in accordance with the general policy of the legislator to extract as much jurisdiction as possible to the Autonomous province and to set some divisional line between the province and the Republic. Yesterday, an anti-constitutional coup was struck in this assembly, and I would say an anti-constitutional coup, because this whole bill is against the constitution, illegal; it is illegal and the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, because it does not represent the ethnic composition of the province. That is why we suggested that this member be deleted, because we cannot allow the Serbian Constitution to be trampled in such a brutal way, although the Prime Minister said that there is a constitution, but that there is a life, and that it regulates life, which in other words would mean "law, it's me". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16613	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 41, against 90, with 17 abstentions, 17 of the 165 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Vukic. The proposer's representative and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The word has been made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, a representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16614	I will take the opportunity to show the position of the Serbian Radical Party on the part of many members of this bill, in which an additional position has been written that some of the jobs within that member are being done as trusted; to God in this law can be determined also by the tasks that are original, which are the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina; and some, as some are not - although the law is very clear, at least for the one who has proposed and said - the bill on determining jurisdiction, unconstitutional, but when it is already so why did the jobs that have been entrusted enter it? Why hasn't it been regulated in any other way that jobs are entrusted? In the context of Article 6, at the end of the day, it is cinematography. That member has four positions. The fourth point of view says that the job is from attitude one. (and that means - an autonomous province, through its authorities, according to the law governing cinematography, is being supervised) entrusted by the Republic of Serbia; that means, when you read this law, everything that the proposer has failed to show you, entrusted work, all of it from tomorrow, from the day this law comes into force, consider the work of an autonomous province that can never again be the work of the Republic of Serbia, which, in accordance with the Constitution, would be entrusted. Of course, this law does not have the right to establish once and for all the jurisdiction of the autonomous province in no area, nor in the area of cinematography, but the Serbian Radical Party has shown by amendment that this job from Article 6, the area of cinematography, can be entrusted to the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina or to the Autonomous Province, I repeat, God one day to Kosovo and Metohija. This is how, when you single out certain points and define us as trusted jobs, you remain, so, still at the point of view that all other jobs are going out of the jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia forever. Then you won't even have the grounds to object when the AP Vojvodina adopts a constitution in which these jobs, which you are now establishing to her as jurisdiction, will define as your own. Do not invite us to an emergency session and to an emergency session that will bring an opinion on the proposal for an AP Vojvodina Constitution. I am referring to the stance on the constitution of Hans Hekerup for Kosovo and Metohija, where we have declared here not to accept this constitution, and you have afterwards called on Serbs to sign as voters and to go to elections under that constitution and trample the will of the National Assembly, unanimously expressed. Don't call on us, so we can condemn the adoption of the AP Vojvodina Constitution. By standing by this law, you're instructing them to speed up their work on making that constitution. So either you're against the law to determine the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina or give them all these powers, because when it goes free, don't untie that rope that was tied around your neck. When he leaves in June, let the rope go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16615	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 36, against 93, with 13 abstentions, 19 of the 161 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Branko Ruzic. The proposer's representative and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16616	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have proposed that article 7 be deleted, since the AP Vojvodina can only do the work of Article 7 in areas where it appears as founder and where it has founding rights. The majority of this member is contrary to the existing Law on the Culture of the Republic of Serbia. I shall specify the part of the work to be provided for in this Article 7. Therefore, it is said that the Autonomous Province is exercising founding rights with regard to the appointment of directors and members of the Management and Supervisory Board of Institutions whose work, maintenance and programmes are financed in whole or in part from the Autonomous Region's budget. The second position is very important - it provides a whole of the resources for the work, investment and ongoing maintenance of the Regional Institute for the Protection of Cultural Monuments and the Network of Institutes for the Protection of Cultural Goods in the Territories of the Autonomous Province, the Archival of Vojvodina in Novi Sad, the Museum of Vojvodina in Novi Sad, the Serbian National Theatre, the Museum of Contemporary and Fine Arts, etc. The Socialists, above all, believe that these institutions are of great importance to national culture and that they overcome the limitation of territorial autonomy. Also, what is a trend and characteristic of this bill is that this law violates and practically changes the Constitution, which in the legal theory and practice was never possible, but seems to be the only possible under this DOS power.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16617	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 39, against 91, abstentions 14, 18 of the 162 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The proposer's representative and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16618	Ladies and gentlemen, the Serbian Radical Party has been trying to convince the assembly majority during this debate that the bill does not comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Now that we can't convince you, we'll try to bring that proposed law into line with the Constitution through our amendments, as much as possible. The amendment to Article 7 - Autonomous province, through its bodies, (point 1), gives its founding rights as regards the appointment of directors and members of the Management and Supervisory Board of Institutions whose work, maintenance and programmes are financed in full (such a proposal may well be, however, a disputed continuation, point 1) - or most of the Autonomous Region budget. This amendment has been proposed to delete it. Why? First, "or most of it," because it's not clear which part is bigger. Most of it can be 40%, because there may be more participants in funding such a board of directors or supervisors. They can be financed by the Republic government, SRJ can finance, local self-government authorities can. That point 1), as you suggested, is not clear enough. For this reason, the Serbian Radical Party and I have proposed that part be deleted: "or most of the budget", and I have proposed a new point 1a: "proves the founding rights regarding the appointment of directors and members of the management and supervisory board of institutions, relatively by participating in the financing of their work, maintenance and programmes". So, a member of the law that was unclear, unspeakable, now, by accepting this amendment and its first and second parts, becomes quite clear -- who will and how to participate in the formation of administrative and supervisory committees. So, in proportion to how much he participates in their funding. I don't know why certain committees in their explanation for this amendment wrote that it was not in line with the spirit of the proposed law. It only improves the law, puts it in order and precises so that the possibilities of interpretation no longer exist. As I said at the beginning, the Serbian Radical Party will try to correct this law as far as possible, with this amendment and with the next. I would appeal to the assembly majority to accept the amendment of the Serbian Radical Party, so that it would not be, such as some of the non-governmental organisations sitting here, making statements to the newspaper that Seselj was right and not to be, if you do not accept our amendments, to say -- Serbian radicals, unfortunately, were right. Unfortunately for every real Serb.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16619	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? The word has been made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, a representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16620	The Serbian Radical Party tried to establish a principle by which both state and economy should regulate their relations. We fully agree on the institutions whose work, the programmes financed in full, some autonomous province has the right to exercise founding rights, to set up administrative and supervisory committees. But let the right of an autonomous province always be in line with the percentage of which is financed by certain organs. If an autonomous province finances an institution with 60%, let it determine 60% of the board of directors and supervisors. It's your stock company. Those who finance with 40% should have 40% of their members on boards and boards of directors. What does that mean if someone else gives 49%? Imagine the situation, various shareholders have 70% shares, all less than 30, the autonomous province has the only 30 and now it has the right to establish both the board of directors and the supervisory board. I guess the rights will be based on how much anyone invests in it. He who invests most should have the most. Whoever invests everything, let him manage all of it, but he who invests most cannot, and the question is, what is the most, to manage the whole. There's no such thing in the world. No one gives up their participation at the expense of one who has the most. How would a world economy do business if one with 51% shares had everything, and others had absolutely no rights, had no board members, had no board of directors -- where would that take the whole world? Why not also accept this amendment, which only distinguishes itself, adds point 1a to which only is further defined. It's okay, the autonomous province is funding everything, it's got all the rights, it's financing 60%, it's got 60% right. No one gives you the right, if the Republic of Serbia's budget is funded by 20%, to give up the management and founding rights to that 20%, or to throw the money into the well. Is there another branch of activity, is there any other system somewhere that the Republic simply funds and no longer has any idea what it is and that it no longer wants to affect how it works, even if the voices that are in the minority.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16621	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 38, against 92, abstentioned 18, it did not vote 13, out of a total of 161 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. The applicant's representative did not accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? The word is from MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16622	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, seems to me that we are practically in the same situation as the first government amendment. It is, in fact, the financing of cultural monuments or, in particular, the provision of funds to protect cultural monuments. The proposal by the province's parliament did not specify the obligations and does not know who is doing the job. Since this is a law that has a temporary character, we think it is necessary to clearly identify the obligations and responsibilities of the one who provides funding. So the amendment provides for the Republic to do so. I don't think this should be controversial for MPs, since we leave this kind of uncertainty to problems that we certainly don't need and that were not really the proposing's intention, nor us who support this proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16623	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the Government of the Republic of Serbia to vote. For 86, against 38, abstentioned 27, did not vote 13, out of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. I'm taking a break until 3:00, and I hope we're all there in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16624	Please insert your identification cards into the MPs to determine the quorum. I find that using the electronic system has established that we have a quorum, so we can continue our work. Before we continue the debate in particular, I would like to inform you that a new parliamentary group called the Democratic opposition of Serbia - the Union of Vojvodina Hungarians, consisting of six MPs, has been educated in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The president of the parliamentary group was appointed MP Anton Biachi and, for his deputy, the MP, Dr Laslo Torda. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. The proposer's representative and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16625	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the draft law of the DOS Trade Coalition, I have proposed that Article 8 paragraph 2 be deleted, with the argument that the amendment is proposed because it is business that cannot be entrusted to the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina for its importance. As for the amendments, I received a report only from the Legislative Committee, which says the Committee did not accept the amendment due to disagreement with the concept of the bill. I must remind the Legislative Committee that it is his obligation to determine whether the amendment is legally possible or not, and not whether the amendment is in accordance with the concept of the bill, because I wrote it in my opinion, and I did not consult the Vojvodina Assembly. They probably meant it. This is where it was heard from the autonomists - why Serbia is bothered by the word of Vojvodina. I can say freely that we do not mind the word Vojvodina, but probably the autonomists are disturbed by the word Serbia, which is why they want to create a republic of Vojvodina. By the way, I come from Kosovo and Metohija where one constitution regretted by autonomouss, which is the 1974 Constitution, was so devastating and disastrous, for both Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, and for all Serbia, because the result of this constitution is known to everyone today in Serbia. With one nostalgia of breaking Serbia and the Serb entity, the Serbian state, today we have here in the Serbian Parliament a proposal of this law, which is one basis for the new Vojvodina. It is heard, and we have seen, that the constitution of the Vojvodina is written, probably copying the constitutional frameworks of Hans Hackerup. However, I must point out that there is an occupation in Kosovo at the moment and that they are occupiers. They don't think Canak and his crew behave the same way in their own country. It means they're worse than the occupiers in Kosovo and Metohija. What is important, and should be mentioned in the bill's proposal, it is yesterday's session and the approval of the New Serbia political group to vote in favour of the bill. I am convinced that this service was only done because of the cigarette factory, Velje Ilic's factory in Čačka and I assume that... (President: Please return to the topic. So, the amendment to Article 8 you've submitted. However, Velja Ilic is not aware that Canak has protected himself and that word "Vojvodina" in article 50 of this bill, so he probably will not succeed in calling that cigarette he plans to place on Serbia's market "Vojvodina", probably out of gratitude, because this is a bill that allows him to make his trade transactions possible. The proposed omnibus law establishing certain competences is, as has been said many times so far, contrary to the Serbian Constitution. As such, he must not have been in the process. After all, we, the Serbian radicals, are trying to simplify this form through amendments, which is being prepared for a new act, which is for the creation of the Republic of Vojvodina. All these transactions provided for by these members are in direct contrast with the 25 positive laws that this National Assembly has brought and most likely follows another job after that; means, duplication of a law that will only apply in one part, in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, which leads to the duplication of the apparatus, to duplicate the centres of power. It will by no means be in the function of the citizens, their improvement in life and work, just for the sake of personal interests and the creation of some of their pastures, as if... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... It's DOS-mania time you mean most. However, this is only one provisional draft of the law, and I hope that after the next elections, which will likely be very soon, this picture will change and Serbian radicals will be abolished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16626	Has anyone else signed up for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 43, against 102, abstention 31, four of the 180 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th amendment was submitted by MP Rada Bajic. The proposer's representative and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He's not present. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. 43, against 99, with 28 abstentions, did not vote 13, out of 183 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 9 of the amendment. The proposer's representative accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 9th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. The proposer's representative and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The applicant of the amendment wants a word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16627	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 9. The amendment is proposed because it is business that cannot be entrusted to an autonomous province because of its importance. Article 9(2) The draft law laying down certain competences of an autonomous province confirms all absurdity and the irrationality of the proposed law. Autonomous province through its bodies, in accordance with the law governing library activity: 1) establishes a network of libraries in the territory of the province; 2) establishes libraries that establish parent functions in the territory of the Autonomous province; (3) determines closer conditions for the work of the library; (4) determines the fulfilment of the conditions for the start of work and the operation of the library; (5) establishes the composition of administrative and supervisory committees in libraries that perform, parent function and appoints members of those bodies; (6) appoints library directors; 8) performs administrative supervision. All of these jobs cannot be left to an autonomous province, so I suggest that Article 9 is deleted, the transactions referred to in points 1, 2 and 4 to 8 cannot be trusted because of their exceptional importance. The conflicts of interest of political oligarchy in Belgrade and Novi Sad, the political trade of Zoran Djindjic and Nenada Canka leads to absurdities and cultural heritage, shares libraries and books on Serbian and Vojvodina. Transferring jurisdiction and trusting businesses of exceptional importance means that the government is unable to perform that function, and in addition to that, it still violates the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia; whoever cares about the Constitution is allowed, there is no constitutional court. We Serbian radicals, we believe that the issue of Serbian national interests is in full swing, thanks to you, gentlemen of the DOS. It is a beautiful and noble Serbian Vojvodina. Beautiful and rich in grain. Every grain has a weed in it, a weed in Vojvodina is Nenad Canak and in Serbia DOS. An effective means of curbing political hens are Serbian radicals and the rule of Serbian radicals, which will soon bring things to order, to the joy and happiness of the Serbian Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16628	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? National MP Branislav Ivkovic, president of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16629	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since this law has been adopted in principle, all we have left, during the debate on amendments, is to try to clarify and clarify for ourselves and for the citizens of Serbia as far as this danger goes, a division that is very possible by adopting this completely unconstitutional law. Come on when it comes to water industry, when it comes to forests, so that man understands why so much is the current, current, legal, but illegal authorities in Novi Sad to put everything under his hat. It's nice that one Socialist MP said yesterday -- for me in Beocino whether I'm fighting Belgrade or Novi Sad, I want to feel autonomy here in Beocino. When it comes to the library, for the sake of Oligarchy in Novi Sad, which is completely illegal and so chosen, in these Western times of October 8th, it will have power to appoint its directors (and this library), we are going to break up a system that is unique in every country. Here in this country, in the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Education, Science and Technology have in quiet time invested huge money to develop a unique system in the National Library of the Republic of Serbia, our domestic software, which allows 28 databases from... Furthermore, from botanists, geology, techniques, military defenses if you want, to rotate and that 100 users can use the Internet from institutes and colleges to access that database and use it. The goal of each country is to improve the exchange of information in the area of library activity as much as possible. What happens to this bill, and it prevents the proposed amendment? It happens that real separatism in the development of library activity, that relationships, whether necessary or unnecessary, are cut off, just so that the New Sad oligarchy can determine who will manage libraries and library networks. Please, every man who has finished school and who gives himself to any scientific and professional work knows the value of the library, knows the value of the keyword, the key name, that by searching it, using multiple libraries at the same time, there is the necessary literature and that he develops his knowledge. What's going on with the bill? A Taraba is being built on the Drina, on the Danube and Sava, and a library network is developing in Vojvodina, an independent library network from the Republic of Serbia. That's unimaginable.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16630	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) I am putting on the vote by the amendments submitted by MP Dragan Colic to article 9. For 46, against 99, abstention 33, five of 183 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Velimir Zivojinovic. The proposer's representative and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16631	Dear MPs, finally to see you on this side. I went out to ask you not to accidentally vote for my amendment, when the motionary has not accepted, I beg you, neither do you. But by the time I'm out, I'll repeat, like all my predecessors, that we tell the people who are watching us still what's going on. I'll be brief: lead the way, we'll probably be going to Vojvodina in a few years with a passport. I said it again, so is there already double ID cards, do they exist? There are. I think this is the moment and those who accept this law and who will accept it. I think this is the moment for Mr Nebojsa Covic to be called urgently to miss Kosovo and to move to Vojvodina. You know, one of our Serbian prophets said -- one day there'll be so many Serbs that they'll all fit under one pear.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16632	Mr. Zivojinović, please return to the topic, it's an amendment to Article 10.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16633	A plum or a pear, anyway. Please, I didn't say which one was the prophet, but I was wrong, not a pear, but a plum. So if we're all gonna fit under one pear, we better go now and plant pears than we're sitting here. Now it is time for Serbia to be completely broken and it is on your honor.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16634	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? National MP Branislav Ivkovic, president of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16635	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am very convinced that Socialist MP Bata Zivojinovic did not make a mistake when he said - pears, our people know very well what they mean when they say someone fell off a pear. However, some will be below the plum, but it is obvious that when it comes to this amendment to Article 10, we need to discuss the following: the right to control the application of the Republic law is entrusted here. Lawyers should respond, and the Prime Minister, which means that in the area of self-execution of artistic and other activities in the field of culture, the right to control the application of the republican law is being moved to the territory of Vojvodina, to Novi Sad. And what it means is when supervision and control of the implementation of the republic's law is passed by the Republic of Serbia. The answer to that will probably convince you that it is a pear and that many are beneath the plums.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16636	Is there another application for a word? No, I don't. ) I put the amendments tabled by MP Velimir Zivojinovic. For 55, against 95, with 33 abstentions, the vote was not 11 out of 194 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic. The proposer's representative and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There's a word from MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16637	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, by amendment to Article 10, which has been filed by the SRS, which I am explaining, we are asking to be in Article 10. Paragraph 2 of the draft law is deleted. Article 10 states: "Autonomous province, through its authorities, in accordance with the law governing the area of self-execution of art and other works in the field of culture, controls the application of the law governing this area. "And attitude 2, whose erasure we are looking for, says: "The job of Article 1 is carried out as a trust. "We consider it to be business that cannot be entrusted to an autonomous province because of its importance and we are asking for the erasure of attitude 2. And whenever we're looking to delete a member of the law, or a certain attitude of this law, you say -- well, that's a small jurisdiction that's being handed over to the province, don't make a big question about it. However, a little bit, and then all the jobs done by the Republic or we trust the province, or it becomes the original business of the autonomous province. And so, I'm afraid, we'll get to what happened in both Kosovo and Metohija. It's been a long time for terrorists, separatists. The 1974 constitution entrusted many jobs, and what was bold, and what was not supposed to be, and then they sought more and more and we came to the fact that today a group of citizens of Kosovo and Metohija are sitting on a gallery, not knowing where their relatives are, are not in their homes, are not in Gjilan, are not in Pristina and other cities of Kosovo and Metohija, but are in a row over other people's houses. It is time to prevent Serbia from falling apart, to make everything unique, not to be more Serbs in this autonomy, Serbs in another autonomy, and in fact not to be Serbs anymore. Once again, I call on all MPs to finally stop giving the province jurisdiction, which does not belong to it, and thus we continue to distribute Serbia and the Serbian people.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16638	National MP Vojislav Seselj, president of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group, spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16639	Ladies and gentlemen, on this amendment, I would like to draw attention to another problem that arises in this DOS omnibus law. The amendment of MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic requires the erasure of attitude 2. I'd like to make an additional argument. That additional argument is based on obvious cohesion. Anti-registration of legal norms of the same legal force, so-called cohesion, most often occurs when it comes to the relationship between the two special laws. In one law, there is one provision, in the other, on the same issue, the two are mutually excluded -- either it can be applied one or the other. It's collapsing. The coalition can happen within the same law. Article 7 regulates in one way a particular question, in Article 37, the same in another way, which excludes the previous one. It is possible where the writers of the legal text are legally illiterate, incompetent, do not take into account the basic rules of legal norm. However, in this legislative project, cohesion occurs in one member between the two positions. The first position determines the jurisdiction of the autonomous province. It is said: "Autonomic province, through its authorities, is controlled by the law governing the area of self-execution of art and other works in the area of culture by the law governing the area. "The first position speaks of the jurisdiction of the province, and the second attitude says: "The job of the 1st member's position is carried out as confidential. "I haven't seen anything more pointless in a long time, although in these years I have really gotten used to many nonsensences in the legal projects that went before this assembly. What was logical here - the autonomous province is entrusted with doing that and the job, and not - the autonomous province does that and does that, and then it does that, and then the next attitude - this job is done as a trusted job, or it does it as a trusted job. This can hardly happen to a first-year student who writes seminar work at law school, let alone someone who tries to introduce himself as a legal expert. Now, why in particular do I have to point out this problem and why I came here specifically to explain it when that amendment arrives for discussion? Because even under this article of law, you can see all the inconclusiveness with which you have approached the whole business. Or anyone who reads or thinks about anything. Canak, from Novi Sad, is blackmailing him to deny support for the Serbian government. And to calm Canak, everything Canak writes is accepted. What Canak can think of in his head, those three tractors can't pull back, people. And you're here to vote what Chanak writes to you, without reading. And on the other hand, you're aware of all the anti-constitutional things you're doing, and that's why you're preventing the Constitutional Court from functioning. That's why Serbia doesn't have a Constitutional Court for a year.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16640	Thank you. Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate applying for discussion? No, I don't. ) I put the amendments tabled by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic on Article 10. For 54, against 95 abstentions, 36 did not vote 12 out of 197 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th Amendment was filed by the MP of the People, Živodarka Dacin. The proposer's representative and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There's a word from the People's Messenger of the Long-wing Dacin.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16641	Mr Minister, fellow Members of Parliament, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 11 with a proposal to delete it in its entirety. It explains: "The concept of publications is very wide. In this case, it is not defined and has such a broad meaning that almost anything written can be swept under it." The words "capital publication" are probably deliberately released here. Capital publications of republican interest are approved by the competent Ministry of Culture of the Republic of Serbia. This also applies to publishers and to all other organizations that publish publications. The AP Vojvodina should establish a comprehensive rural interest in the area of culture, with regard above all to its cultural specificities and personalities, such as: multiculturality, ethnic democracy, bilingualism, proselytisation and dialogue of different cultures. It should also be said that there is currently a stalemate in multicultural research, and in particular the area of research of cultural ties between the Serbian people and other ethnic communities is neglected. Moreover, cultural links research by Hungarians - Slovaks, Romanians - Rusini, and others are blocked. It could have been expected, at least based on the way we have achieved, preserved and nurtured language, cultural and religious identity, which is what international norms and standards envisioned, blended into our existing legislation, to make a new step in the fields of culture and cultural life, which is not proposed here. The shift was expected to be made from multiculturalism to interculturalism. The provisions given in the cultural department do not, unfortunately, make it possible, are already more directed towards the split of the unique multicultural space of the Republic of Serbia, and hence Vojvodina, as its integral part. Without strengthening multicultural and intercultural ties, which is the imperative of the time in which we live, this law only encourages one part of the presence of the closing of the culture of ethnic communities, and that is in other words called ethnocentrism. For everything out of the blue, I urge the MPs to vote in favour of the amendment of the SPS parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16642	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Please, the word has a minister of justice and local self-government, Mr Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16643	Gentlemen of Parliament, it is the Government's opinion that the proposed amendment should not be accepted, because the term publication is defined, and very precisely, by the publication of publications, published in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" under number 37 of 1991, and it is analogous to the observation of the MP that the concept of publications is too broadly covered and not sufficiently defined simply unfounded.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16644	Thank you. The word is made by MP Vojislav Seselj, president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16645	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this provision of a legal project is not only pointless, it is also very dangerous if it enters legal traffic as it is. Here, the hill-land is lined up with various responsibilities that are counter-constitutionally attributed to the AP Vojvodina. One of these competences is the jurisdiction to control the activities of publishing and other organisations involved in printing and publishing publications. She was tested in practice until 1988. Let's get some lessons out of it. And under the communist system, not all parts of the previous Yugoslavia were equally totalitarian - Slovenia was believed to be more relatively free than the rest of Yugoslavia, that a shift in the release of public thought, speech, publishing work was achieved in Serbia, etc. There was no freedom of the press, but the books were quite free, except that we, a few, were regularly banned from what we were printing. In Vojvodina, however, the regime was the same as in Bosnia and Herzegovina under Branko Mikulic. At the time of Bosko Krunic, even one of the professors of Novosad University was sentenced to two months in prison for an article in the "Library Journal", published in Belgrade. Why did he publish this text in Belgrade? Because he had no place to publish such a text in all of Vojvodina. Bosko Krunic and Zivjan Berisavljevic's regime was the same as Dizdarevic, Mikulic, Pozderac's regime in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We seem to be going back to the situation with this law. One criterion will be applied to the rest of Serbia in this area and another criterion in Vojvodina. Or the intellectuals from Belgrade will flee to Vojvodina to print their works, and such a situation is possible. I don't know who'll be more liberal, Canak or Djindjic in advance. You never know that. Both have very express autocratic tendencies. Or the intellectuals from Vojvodina will flee to Belgrade to publish their actions, so that they do not come under the influence of such legal provisions as means in the hands of people who are willing at all costs to carry out their will and to put an end to freedom of thought and intellectual creation. Of course, there is such a law. The law was passed at the level of Serbia as a whole, so that intellectual creation would be protected and secured in all parts of Serbia. Fortunately, for the past ten years, as much as memory serves me, we don't have any forbidden books. Newspapers are banned in two or three controversial cases. And it's against the law. Only two or three controversial cases. [[Sagar.]] No newspapers are allowed, but you don't know what a ban means. You think financial punishment is a ban on newspaper owners and editors. It's not. The ban on newspapers has been issued by the district court in criminal proceedings. In criminal proceedings! In a shortened version of the criminal procedure. It would be good for a man to experience it once in a lifetime. At least then he'd have proof that he was creating something in his life, so someone banned him, because it was worth it, because I don't remember any case that a worthless book was banned under the communist regime. Only valuable books are banned, and worthless ones are printed in tens of thousands of copies. Many of those who are now your sworn adherents or prominent members took part in this. Because... You can throw it all you want. [[growls]] I'm not saying this for you. I'm saying this for the public. I don't care what you think or what you throw away. I also alarm the general public on this point that different conditions of intellectual creation are being created here, primarily by the publication of what is the result of intellectual creation. Why is one kind of control in Vojvodina, and another kind of control in the rest of Serbia, on the issue of publications? Why don't one of you come out here and explain it? What's the reason he needs now for one little feud and his lordship... (President: Time)... to put a whip in the hands of intellectual creation.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16646	Branislav Ivkovic, head of the SPS parliamentary group, answered the words.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16647	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the amendment to Article 11 of the Law may be the right time to consider what Article 9 is talking about for Novi Sad to take full control of libraries and library networks, Article 10, which says that Novi Sad and oligarchy in Novi Sad assume the right to control and control the application of republican law in the area of self-fulfilment of artistic and other activities, Article 11 which speaks of the exercise of supervision of the work of publishers and other organisations that issue publications. Maybe this is the right time to look at Article 12 where basic and secondary education is at stake, and Article 13, where high education is at stake, to remember how all of this started. One of the leaders (who, on the wings of some other stories, came out, never allowed himself to go to the elections) came out here yesterday for a pay phone and threatened to adopt the law, the way it is, without any amendment, because if there is an amendment - what's going to be? What's it gonna be? He'll do something. He may raise the people to a rebellion. By what, and who's that leader? The leader is, in fact, the head of the body that is today the biggest political instability in Serbia, which is the province's assembly, which, by its composition, has nothing to do with the political influence of individual parties in Vojvodina. The leader allowed himself a statement in the paper this morning that 117 MPs belong to the fascist group because they voted against such a law. What did he yell at? He cried out - where's our money? What does money have to do with libraries, artists, primary education, secondary education, and what's behind that? When it comes to money, his story that an autonomous province had only 80 million is a notorious lie. The authorities of the autonomous province had 80 million in the budget to function, but that's why the government of Serbia's resolute ministries earlier, and now, huge money has been allocated to the functioning of the institutions they support. Only one modest ministry of funds allocated 110 million in 2000 to the functioning of institutes, colleges and the acquisition of equipment. What's the finale now? The finals are that we now come across that someone, unlike the whole world, who unites in the informational sense, develops Internet access in libraries, a uniform system of keywords, etc., wants to break it down. For what? Why does the State, this congregation, deny the rights of oversight of the application of republican laws? Where's that? When did Germany give up the state union, control over the application of some German law in Bavaria and let Bavaria do it? Find an example and answer, you lawyers who know everything. There isn't. Why is Article 11 given the right to oversee the application of the Republic Law in the publication of publications? Is that not putting a sword in the hands of those who want to swing a sword against alleged fascists, 117 in this congregation?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16648	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) I am putting on the vote by the amendments tabled by MP Zivodarka Dacin on Article 11. For 55, against 84, with 19 abstentions, 29 of the 187 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Janjic. The proposer's representative and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The amendmentr wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16649	I'm asking the chairman to get a glass of water first here. We almost lost a minister yesterday, and without such a frame, he almost drowned on this pay phone when he coughed. If it hadn't happened to me, a glass of water would have happened here first. That glass of water can't hurt and pour this first row, because it can't even wash the Danube. So give me a glass of water.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16650	Mr. Janjic, you've been given your word to discuss your amendment. Your time is up, you've got your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16651	Time to return, and give me a glass of water. Get me a glass of water. If anything happens to me, Natasha will be held accountable. I will begin my presentation by quoting Mr. Minister Batic. This is a stenogram from his exposure yesterday. "The three countries were once known in Europe for their degree of autonomy: the former Soviet Union, and now the Russian Federation, Italy and Yugoslavia." And that's the rotten Soviet Union you've been running away from so much. You didn't give an example from America. Like, in America, when it was launched in the Texas League for Texas, 32 leaders of the Texas League shot the FBI in one day when they tried to tear down the state. With us, national security couldn't work, because DOS leaders were recorded as DB informants, and all the press is writing now. We don't have that service now. What else does Mr. Batic say? "It's not about going back to the 1974 autonomy. It is part of a legal history such as AVNOJ's decisions and the egg session. These are acts from another time, a completely different social system, as well as a political system." You've been very informed about the meeting in Eggs. Were you there personally or were you carried there? I think yesterday we could have handled all this nicely when all three of the leaders of the Vojvodina were here. He was Mr. Vesenov, Mr. Canak and Mr. Kasa. You could have put Vesenov in Chanka, Chanka in Kasa, and all that in Tis.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16652	I warn you to get back on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16653	They couldn't drown and fail, because they have big floats. One more thing, in connection with the transfer of this assembly: I was told by citizens from the Pcinj County that yesterday during the presentation of Mr. Prime Minister, a picture was shaking on the screen. Apparently, there were some interferences, and I tell them -- that's what the prime minister is playing for a pay phone, shaking his head, because he has nothing to say to the citizens of Serbia, because he cheated on them.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16654	Mr. Janjic, I already warned you to get back on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16655	Gentlemen of the DOS will choose the Serb people very soon. (Milena Milosevic: What amendment? What are you talking about? This is an amendment. You don't understand. Serbia's people will choose enough Serbian patriots to make a convincing majority in this parliament, and in a thousand hours we will create a single Serbian state.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16656	I have warned you twice to return to the agenda, and I therefore give you notice on the basis of Articles 102 and 103.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16657	We are uniting a Serbian space where all citizens will be protected. Then it will not happen that part of Serbian territory is sold for the second time for the same cigarette factory, the same factory that you voted on by the Labour Act. And now for Minister Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16658	Mr. Janjic, I'm warning you again that you're not talking about the agenda at all. That's your amendment to article 11. This is not a debate in principle, and you need to talk about your amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16659	That's the essence of my amendment, and when you hear the end of the story, you'll realize that it's all connected.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16660	It's the end of the story. It's already been five minutes. So it's the end of the story. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 51, against 86, abstention 21, did not vote 33, out of 191 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposed amendment. The 12th amendment was submitted by MP Predrag Canovic and MP Vladimir Garcevic. The President of the Proposer and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The word has a National MP, Predrag Canovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16661	Dear People's MPs, Member of the 12th current bill speaks of the competences of an autonomous province in the area of education. In particular, this member refers to basic education, although in some ways it represents a matrix for other types of education. The position of the Serbian Unity Party is that this Article 12 should be completely deleted, as the issue of primary, secondary and higher education, the issue of starting schools and colleges, and in particular the adoption of curricula and programmes, must be regulated in a unique manner, so on the level of the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia. Let us remember, that was not so long ago, that the embryo of separatism in Kosovo and Metohija was also conceived by the attempt to adopt different curricula and programmes, which were in direct contrast with the curricula and programmes of the Republic of Serbia. It is certain that the area of education is extremely suitable ground for the development of the separatist process. In our opinion, therefore, the area of education must be regulated and regulated systematically, at the level of the Republic. Otherwise, I'm afraid that education, which is an extremely important segment of social life, will simply drown in separatist miles.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16662	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Does the applicant of the amendment come forward for a word? The word is Vladimir Garčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16663	President-in-Office, honourable MPs, I have submitted an amendment to Article 12. - to erase. From 1974 until 1988, there was a great struggle of educational staff in Vojvodina territory to prevent the disaster that prevailed in education, and it concerned plans and programmes, the closure of Vojvodina, the closure of Vojvodina youth, and to enable their education in both Belgrade and Serbia. Young people don't know the boundaries. Is this what the current government wants with this return to education, and I wonder whose name this is planned and brought in? If you say - on behalf of the educational workers, I am an educational worker and I will tell you the following, and I have been in the District Fund for longer, if it is money - gentlemen, return money to municipalities, gentlemen, not money for Belgrade but below; and when it comes to plans and programmes, when it comes to the law - do not close the youth line, that there is no passing in all Serbia. Given that these forces are headed by the same people who have led these actions since 1974 and against whom we have been, not related to the parties, because education is now politicised and then it wasn't -- we wanted to live in education, we all have the same conditions, we have the same salaries, that we're solidarity with each other, that were movements. I think that today's education is also unique, but they set him up to live better if we separate from Serbia. It's thesis in Vojvodina, comrades. Thesis is down in Cacca, as it progresses to separate Vela - is Vela perhaps not with the province to create some Danube banner, so we'll split up. I want my children to move freely and school in Serbia's territory. On the other hand, they say they want to reform. Does this mean that the reform will keep Vojvodina apart from Serbia? I have to warn you about something and about that reform. There's a lot of talk. The burden of children in secondary and primary schools will be significantly higher than it is today. Let the comrades out who think they can deny it. In Austria, in technical schools, the burden is 37 to 40 hours a week, and we have a maximum of 32 hours. The number of teaching days will increase and student vacations will decrease. This is what is offered, and we will rip Serbia apart, so our children will not be able to move freely and will not have the right to enroll in other schools. Don't close our borders, leave us education, and solve the economics at the state and municipality level. So I suggest that this law... Because it's tied to a network of schools, surveillance, inspection, it's all about the law that goes with the separation of Vojvodina completely. If we separate education, separate the health care system, separate tomorrow's judiciary, destroy the army, then -- hello, Serbia, and we're not most of the Vojvodjans for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16664	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? The word has a People's MP, Zeljo Huric.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16665	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dear colleague Garcevic, I respect and respect your engagement in this area, especially in the work of the Committee on Education and in this way, but I still have to respond to some of your views. If by any chance you had predicted the correction of some of the points provided for in this article, I might understand, but if you predict that a complete member is deleted, then I really don't understand some things. Then what would remain in the jurisdiction, in terms of separation and speciality, of the AP Vojvodina to arrange in that area? This would mean that there is absolutely nothing there that is special in relation to other parts of the Republic of Serbia. I don't understand how you understand that borders are being created, that our children from any other part of the Republic can't enroll schools in Vojvodina, that they're going to need some passports -- I don't get that impression, and I don't see anything narrowing down in that respect, so in terms of the rights of the students and their parents. Therefore, this amendment in this form does not really need to be accepted and I call on all MPs to vote against.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16666	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? The word is made by MP Vladimir Garčević, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16667	Let's get some reality, colleagues. I speak from the life experience we experienced in the persecution of autonomists, Serbs by Serbs, not Serbs by Hungarians, but Serbs by Serbs. And now we have the same thing. But to go back and answer this. As for national minorities -- there will always be, in both the SPS and all parties, that they should have conditions of development and work, and equality, like any citizen of Serbia. As far as this part -- from where I'm afraid -- no student from Sremska Mitrovica who's 70 kilometers away, where the highway is, could continue schooling because he had to make a difference. Trained by such experience, I respect Novi Sad as my city, respecting Belgrade as my capital. A large number of high school students were sent, due to proximity, due to highways, economics, and because of the big city (because young people are challenging Belgrade) to school in Belgrade. These changes that are required, and pre-election and electoral activities, and I know that the same people who run this thing in Vojvodina, which gives me for the right to be human, first of all, and an educational worker, that we're going to close the same thing and we're not going to let the youth, of course, get an equal education. I'm not good for it, you gentlemen, you know - Panchev couldn't come to Belgrade. That's 25 kilometers from Panchev was supposed to go over Zrenjanin to get to Novi Sad. I want a unique system of education and basic legislation, and what belongs to the municipality needs to be returned to the municipality. There's no dilemma about me in that part.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16668	People's MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the DOS parliamentary group, spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16669	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the area of education is very serious and it is on our side the subject of treatment and through a package of laws that will be reformed, which is before us; among other things, through this law which provides certain, constitutionally defined, freedoms and rights that have been suspended, and for reasons which there is no need to speak here. You can't just promote some fear on every amendment. We can at least agree in one way, that there is a big difference between the representatives of today's government and the representatives of the former government. If once the road to Novi Sad from Panchev was closer from the road to Belgrade, this is not the case today. Believe that the differences you're talking about are not the differences that will exist in the time ahead. On the contrary. Don't really... if we can talk about these amendments seriously, but without that kind of euphemism and irresponsibility that is incredible, given that we have a month of conversation ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16670	Thank you. The word was also reported by MP Branislav Ivkovic, president of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16671	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we had the opportunity to hear Mr. President of the AP Vojvodina Assembly here when he said that his 120 MPs were worth one MP in this House. Of course, he forgot to say that only in the 37-member SPS parliamentary group is eight from Vojvodina, and the DOS is probably 30 from Vojvodina. I mean, Vojvodina is fair to the number of inhabitants, and how represented in this congregation. I ask all of you from Vojvodina what has been suspended in the field of education in Vojvodina. Could national minorities not go to schools in their native language, was it forbidden to publish textbooks, newspapers, programs, and economic media in the languages of national minorities? Let me hear it, was it? No, I don't. There's no problem with that, Duke. There are no examples of relations with national minorities and national communities in Europe, as guaranteed by the 1990 Constitution. No one can deny that. Let him come out for this pay phone and deny it. It's about this, that we're from the story -- where my money came to the story -- I want my library, I want to control the artists, I want to keep publications in Novi Sad, I want to make programs in Vojvodina. Then what is it? Is it the Republic of Serbia or the Republic of Vojvodina, as Canak outlined in his programme? We suggest that this member be deleted. Basic education is the most typical category for the foundation of normal life in a single country. We've experienced what it means when Tirana starts printing textbooks for elementary school. Is that how it was in Kosovo and Metohija? We are now facing Minister Knezevic and has prepared a draft law on basic education, a draft law on secondary education and a draft law on higher education. Why don't we do what God says? Why don't we come here with a law on basic education and why, considering the law on basic education, we don't know which responsibilities we're proposing to go to AP Vojvodina's authority. Of course, above all those responsibilities relating to the position of national minorities, which guarantee a complete equality in the education system of all national communities in our areas. This is the meaning of this proposal by Mr Garcevic, MP of the SPS - to delete this member of the law and to wait for the laws of primary, secondary and higher education and to finely consider in general a single legislative project to determine all together, in front of the citizens of Serbia, who, according to the Constitution and the statute, are moving to Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16672	The word is Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16673	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the government doesn't think the proposed amendment should be accepted. It seems to me that there is insufficient reading of the text of the law. In Article 12(1), it is said - in accordance with the law. So, not outside the law, but according to the law. Secondly, the continued personification of the legal proposal with the sudden Chanka means ignoring the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina. Gentlemen, she has 120 MPs. These people have to respect each other. The fact that 118 DOS MPs are there, that's the opposition's problem, but what to do. That's the will of the citizens of the AP Vojvodina. As you cared about young people, it is really hypocritical to talk about it today. That's why they're full of both Canbera and Johannesburg and places all over the Meridians. That's where our youngsters are.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16674	The People's Messenger Joseph Kasa, replica. First the People's Messenger Joseph Kasa, the replica, then you. He's mentioned in the presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16675	I don't think Mr. Ivkovic is so uninformed as a member of the main SPS board that he doesn't know how many classes, especially in Banat, have been closed in Hungarian for the past 10 years. But if you're uninformed, you can look at all the reports, both your parties and the Ministry of Education. I'm sure you've also been informed of how elected school directors are with the majority Hungarian students. I'm sure you've been informed of the appointment of the head of the Vojvodina department who supervised the work of the schools. I'm sure you've been informed of how the curricula was formed, or the curricula, in the languages of the national minorities, and what the structure of these subjects is. If you don't have it, Mr. Ivkovic, I ask you to look at your party's reports.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16676	National MP Branislav Ivkovic, right on line. The MP finished the discussion. I'm asking the MP...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16677	Just so I'm saying, I'm not going to Hungary, because Serbia is my country and I'm staying here, unfortunately for you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16678	I'm asking the MP to leave the pay phone. The word is made by MP Branislav Ivkovic. Replication of Prime Minister Vladan Batic's presentation, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16679	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I had the opportunity, as a professor of the Faculty of Civil Engineering, to teach in Subotica at the Faculty of Civil Engineering for two years as a visiting professor; I have never heard a single comment on the system that existed and on the great pride of the Serbian people living today in Vojvodina. In the care of a Serb man, every member of any national community has always been calm and protected. I must say, as a minister, I've had the opportunity to visit Mr. Kasu, former Mayor of Subotica, to be his guest, and in our exchange of views, and from Mr. Ivre Biro, I've never had the chance to hear anything bad happen. As for the potential (I do not have that information) closure of schools, it is more relevant to the problem of birth which and how it torments Vojvodina, but I must say that the Hungarian national community has not only survived, but is developing in the territory of Vojvodina, while the Serbian national community essentially disappeared in the territory of the Republic of Hungary. Never has it occurred to the Republic of Serbia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia to share the legitimacy of the Serbs in Hungary in order to have privileges, as the Republic of Hungary does today in Serbia. Romania has been given the right to issue these legislations, and our foreign minister has no idea and, by the way, votes against the poored uranium, essentially for use, it is another story outside this parliament. As for youth leaving, I just want to tell you that the data that I have, which is fresh for ten days, indicate that a far greater departure of young people, Mr. Batic, is in the past year than in earlier years.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16680	If no one ever answers their word again, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to declare the amendment to the 12th member of Parliament, Predrag Canovic and Vladimir Garcevic. For 54, against 86 abstentions, 17 did not vote 28, out of 185 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Vujic. The proposer's representative and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16681	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to the disappointment of Mr. Ivkovic, I will agree with Mr. Kas, and I believe he is with me, as soon as he was clear. Indeed, there is a certain number of schools, perhaps even a large one, before closing -- students here listened to teaching in the Hungarian language and the result was that these children were taken by force by force by their parents who moved to seven municipalities of the northern Bačka i.e. Northern Serbia; this created a homogenisation of the Hungarian ethnicity in northern Serbia. That's the only thing Mr. Kasa left out, otherwise he was right. Whether it'll be a sign for something later, what it's doing now, we'll see. As for the amendment itself to Article 12, I have tried to explain to you in the amendment all the nonsense and all the scope of this Article 12, by proposing that 12 points in item 1, of the 20 envisaged be deleted, and those that Vojvodina and steal and receive from Serbia, and taken from Serbia as its established and specific competence. I'm going to charge these members, I just wanted to tell you that with my amendment, I want to show that Serbia is stealing from this member and the entire law in an unconstitutional way by the duchy forces. What we do is we succumb to these influences. If you'll excuse me, I'll list a group, not to read to you, not to bother you all members. It is known that education, complete education, was the primary, high, secondary, higher education, unique in the territory of all Serbia (unique, because Serbia has been unique so far) and is equally accessible under the same conditions for all citizens. Now Vojvodina wants to make its own special education. Mr. Ceda Jovanovic says the government has submitted legislative projects on primary and secondary education and university, and that we will soon have this at the assembly hearing. If not because of you, just because of Mr Jovanovic, I call on him to read these laws himself, to read this law to which Vojvodina steals many responsibilities in Serbia and kidnappings in an unconstitutional way, and to read the platform on the achievement of constitutional authority of autonomy, AP Vojvodina, with principles for the future constitutional establishment of the province. Who gives himself the right in the province to create a constitutional structure means to create a new constitution of the province? Does that mean secession and separatism, what we were saying? That's all it can mean. If you don't understand, gentlemen of the DOS, I call on your leader, the president of the parliamentary group, to read it, and then he'll understand it. As far as these 12 points are concerned, is it possible, by this article, that if basic education is unique throughout Serbia, that the Vojvodina will now specifically make and bring for national minorities a programme, for the languages of national minorities, to approve textbooks for those languages of national minorities, that, in agreement with the minister responsible for the education affairs, it brings curricula? Is that what Vojvodina's gonna do? Does this mean that tomorrow Sandzak will make his own, does this mean that the other four, five regions (how much do you predict when you bring that constitution about tearing up Serbia), that everyone will make their own? Where there's the uniqueness of education, where you say someone from Chačka will be able to come to Alibunar, that someone from Vranja will be able to come to Užice, you'll be divided into six educations. Therefore you did not come to power, and therefore the people will take you down. It's still said he's bringing in a school calendar. Does this mean that the students in Vojvodina, regardless of national, racial or religious, or gender, will go to school one day, and via Sava, in Capco, another day. Everyone will seem to have their own education. Everyone will have their calendars. Also, the Vojvodina will, on its own, when you in general pass this law, when it steals the jurisdiction and certain competencies established by it, be able to carry out and monitor the legality of the work and the acts they bring in and carry out inspection? Mr. Vesenov said there was a single inspection left. What is this now? That's the separatism, and that's what you're going to vote for. That's what cuts with the Constitution, that's what's absurd and what's pointless. Take, gentlemen of the DOS, the platform where the Dukes move into secession, now they get autonomy, they move into the Republic tomorrow, and what's the third? A private state, and you vote to get Vojvodina out of Serbia. Let's give it to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16682	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? There is a word from MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16683	The Serbian Radical Party has tabled an amendment to the article. 12, 13, 14 and 16 because it's about the system of education and because it's about our children. When I say, our children, I mean the children of Serbia, and I don't separate them in any way, and I hope you don't think of separating them in any way. Article 12 speaks of basic education and education. Reading it carefully and reading what Vojvodina is asking for as a jurisdiction, and what it accepts as a trusted job, we come to the conclusion that the current oligarchy in Vojvodina says it accepts that it is entrusted with establishing a network of primary schools and determining the fulfilment of conditions for their work, but therefore requires it to give an opinion on the process of adopting all curricula and programmes, to bring a programme for the languages of national minorities, to approve textbooks for the languages of national minorities, yes, something that is incomprehensible to me, point. Six and seven. - by agreement with the Minister responsible for Education Affairs, delivers curricula and programmes from individual subjects, or approves textbooks and teaching tools for individual subjects of interest to national minorities. I have to ask you -- what does it look like to be agreed upon, or approved, between the autonomous province and the minister in charge of education? What's it gonna look like and what if there's no deal? Will those years have no school plans and programs, will they run out of textbooks? And why does the AP Vojvodina (this is about the request of the AP Vojvodina) want so much to get involved in all those affairs, in every denial, in every part of the lives of the national minorities? Shouldn't that be regulated in the territory of the Republic of Serbia? Has the Framework Convention not been regulated on the entire globe, has there been one of the conditions of the Framework Convention on the Rights of Minorities that Serbia has not, not only prescribed, but fulfilled? Didn't we go any further? Do they have anywhere in Europe and anywhere in the world of national minority rights to study at universities in their own language? The Framework Convention says - unless it endangers the rights of students studying in the language of the majority. And when did Serbia condition study, when it conditioned primary and secondary education to minority members, in the language they speak? In Serbia there are 118 elementary schools in Hungarian, 27 secondary schools in Hungarian. It is true that in 10 years, the number of elementary schools from 123 dropped to 118, but the depopulation among the Hungarian minority is terrible; their number has dropped by the last 80 years by 60 and slightly, with slightly more than 2% falling to slightly more than 1% of the total population in Serbia. In 29 municipalities in Serbia, the Hungarian language is an official language, from a municipality where the percentage of the Hungarian population is 2.8% to 88% (I think it is in Kanjija). Well, I would, too, if I were Casa Joseph, say I'd stay in Serbia forever. He connected Serbia and Hungary with his private assets, bought out for good. From Hungary, you enter the "casovina" first, then enter Serbia, the SRJ, the Vojvodina. Or maybe I'm wrong, or maybe I'm lying? I'm ready to measure the strength of the arguments. Here, for this speaker, we were presenting data, when he was a SPS favorite, at a time when we were also in the Serbian government.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16684	Mr. Nikolic, please return to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16685	So, please, did you ask Kasa Joseph what he was talking about? What do you want now? When someone comes out, he can say whatever he wants, and when he needs an answer, he's not in the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16686	Well, you didn't get the right line, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16687	And what did Casa Joseph get?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16688	It's a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16689	And the second time he went out for a pay phone?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16690	It's a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16691	So you weren't there, what are you talking about? You have no idea what this is about.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16692	Anyway, you have no right to speak beyond the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16693	Anyway, I've told Kasa everything here and I've said enough, and don't applaud him. Don't give it to the richest man in Serbia, who got rich thanks to the abduction of the Serbian country, don't applaud him. Let him show you his Hungarian ID card, then give him a round of applause.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16694	Mr Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the DOS parliamentary group, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16695	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this kind of interpretation of the proposed law isn't really the result of our lack, we shouldn't be looking for that kind of example in the world. The greater freedoms and rights are not our anomalies, but our advantage. And there have been a lot of examples in our collective history that we've been taking a step forward in some segments of social life, and if at this point we're doing something like that, I don't think that's why we shouldn't feel frustrated or doubt our own credibility. The issue of education is very complex, serious, and I think that, as a society, we still need to put the issue of education and responsibility towards education down to the level at which it is achieved. Let people themselves assess whether they will be educated in the native language, if they are representatives of a national minority community, or, if we talk about Serbia, in Serbian; whether they will be educated in English or French. Today we live in a city where people are educated in foreign languages. Our wish is for Serbia to qualify for a year or two, three or four, in a league where there are no borders and there are no educational barriers. I think that this kind of criticism is not a criticism that may have the support of the Democratic Opposition of Serbia, and that kind of anomaly seen in the previous regime is not something that may be an argument in our case, because there are too many differences. I remember, as a high school student, going to the river and fishing and differences in the quality of the fishing permit on one side and on the other side of the river, but if it was at the time of communist organised Serbia, I don't think it will be in the time in which we live today; and, certainly, we as the parliamentary majority, and even those who proposed this law did not seek such a thing, but rather, to protect authentic rights, safeguarding personality, affirming advantages and removing flaws and shortcomings. It is true that there are schools in Serbia where education programmes are conducted in minority language, but it is also true that the number of these schools has been reduced, not because someone has moved, trying to national hegemony, but for a practical reason that has arisen from the application of regulations that are characteristic of the rest of Serbia. You can't form a class if you don't have, I mean, a minimum of 28 students. I'm not sure, but then the number was changed because of the problems that arose in those environments where school classes couldn't have that many students, because of population policy. So when we talk about education, we leave political contexts in another plan, because they can be the subject of our interest only if they become the subject of education itself, so common interpretation of history and definition of the future of the existing state. Then we can talk about it in a political context, but when we create frameworks, these frameworks are not national and they can't be political, because that kind of thing isn't really the way to a stable country where we all live. The accident does not recognise the ethnic border; those who thought it would succeed suffered defeat, and we along with them, as a society. That's why we break these barriers down, they're psychologically difficult, but I think it's clear that what represents the essence of this law is actually solving problems, which in themselves are frustrating and which have not brought much good to our society in general.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16696	Thank you. (The People's MP Tomislav Nikolic from the post seeks the right to replication. ) I don't allow the requested replica, there's no basis. You're not mentioned at all, nor are you misread. You're not mentioned at all, nor are you misread. (Employer Tomislav Nikolic, from the place: I don't have to be mentioned, but it's misread... You're not even misread. The decision to use the replica is made by me. If you're not happy, I can put it to a vote. People's MP Zeljo Huric, deputy president of the DOS parliamentary group, Vojvodina Reformists and Sandzak Democratic Party, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16697	Dear People's MPs, it is that this is a field of my work, but I would really like to bring the story down into some conventional frameworks. I guess that's impossible. It's precisely in this sphere most necessary to do. On the other hand, we got a little into a story that refers to the Law of Education itself. That's why I'd like to ask if we're reducing a little bit and leave a part of the story on the agenda when the basic and secondary education law comes in. However, I would now answer only some of the remarks that are being made here -- they can be good, and they're not good. Those who say that minority communities had all the rights in the field of education are formally right, because it was indeed in the current law. In practice, however, indeed, representatives of minority communities have not consulted on their rights in this area. We could not even participate in the adoption of curricula and programmes, textbooks, organization of online schools etc. So that's how things are, that's how they are, and now this is a new law that really predicts that everything about the rights of minority communities is brought in one agreed way, not imposed, as has been practice so far. So the difference was that. Besides, I'd just like to warn you about something: imagine that this is the bill we got, not only in this sphere, but in general, from Kosovo and Metohija. Would we be against it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16698	National MP Branislav Ivkovic, president of the SPS parliamentary group, spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16699	The Socialists support the amendment of the People's MP, Mr Vujic of the Serbian Radical Party, and particularly support him because of item 16 in Article 12, where the right to exercise control over the legality of work and school acts is given. Be careful, the right to exercise control over the legality of work and school acts is given. Schools cover not only the Law on Fundamental Education, but also the Labour Act, the Law on Sanitary Inspection, the Law on... One 20-30 law is intertwined in the function of life and the work of a primary school. So, you now, if you vote this member, trust, you give the right to have the province's authorities oversee and control the application of republican legal acts. I'm an engineer, but I've been listening to the lawyers talk about it and say it's about as if someone trusted a part of sovereignty. This law here prejudges the laws prepared by the Ministry of Education and Sports. If we already have a law on elementary school, a law on high school, a law on university, why do we prejudge this law of legal projects that will be in this assembly in a month or two. Why then, when we discuss the law on elementary school, we do not make a unique decision that because of the tradition, the specificity of the Vojvodina space, let us entrust those essential functions that will satisfy the interest, above all, of the national communities in creating those parts of the programs that are important to them, for their history, culture, tradition of language. We cannot allow complete programmes to create someone outside the Republic of Serbia, to be directed towards another country, history, culture and tradition of the state, not the state in which they live. I am very pleased to hear from the previous speaker for this speaker that values that are beyond the reach of Europe have been achieved here, and that is correct. We only have to ask ourselves why one good part of Europe did not go our way when it comes to the equality of citizens to the position of national minorities. We also have a question as to whether the pursuit of a part of the Separatist wing in Vojvodina is an internationalization of this problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16700	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote on Member of the 12th People's MP Bozidar Vujic. For 46, against 83, with 16 abstentions, the vote was not 28 out of 173 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 13th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Predrag Canovic and MP Vladimir Garcevic. The proposer's representative and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Do any of the applicants of the amendment want a word? National MP Predrag Canovic gives up. National MP Vladimir Garcevic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16701	It's a shame these two laws are one after another, but what to do is that's how it is in life. I'd only say a few things, especially if Casa's here. We had 15 Serbs in the Kelebia area. We couldn't open the Serbian department, because the law says it takes 30. But the guarantee is secure -- wherever there were 15 students, which is by law, and I hope it's always respected, whether it's a primary or regular school, the national minority departments were opening up, whether it's Hungarians, Slovaks, Romanians or some other national minority. This speaks of the equality of national minorities. So, it's about meeting the schooling conditions and it could envy all the countries in the environment, but also in Europe. Now I'd like to say something about the High School Act. Irregularity. ) Please, for the sake of the citizens of Serbia, i.e. regarding Article 13, I will read to the citizens to see what is going on in Vojvodina. Let them assess whether they are the interests of Serbia or not. It's said to establish a network of high schools. The establishment of a network of secondary schools - in my opinion, it is rational to establish it at the level of the Republic. Furthermore, it is said -- the founding of a high school, determines the fulfillment of the conditions for the work and function of secondary schools. What province service is it to establish the conditions for school work? Why would I ask that? I ask for the following reasons: that service that needs to determine whether the school owns the conditions - of the building, teaching classes, teaching equipment, all that is necessary for teaching, and only then this. And this law does not provide for the supervisory department to move into the jurisdiction of the province. It is therefore pointless for such jurisdiction to be given to the province and for the supervisory service to remain within the Republic. It goes on - it determines the number of students to enroll in high school. This was not such a problem, that the number of students and the consideration of the overall needs in Serbia could not be done. Further - gives an opinion in the process of adopting curricula and programmes. I think this authority will educate expert teams at the level of Serbia's country, which will establish the basics of curricula and programmes, and I'm surprised that this means that it will leave out all the experts from Vojvodina can contribute, or that means that Vojvodina will make special plans for itself. If that's the case, then Serbia separates. Approves textbooks, then nostrification of documents, i.e. testimonies, etc. I don't know, Minister, maybe someone else should do it and do it in part, and I think that one service should do it, where it would be a unique nostration of documents and recognition at Serbia's level, where it would not depend on interpretation individually, but uniquely. I hope you don't move that part there. It controls legality -- I don't know, if the laws are passed by the Republic of Serbia, I guess the legality should be controlled by the Republic of Serbia. If, according to what we heard yesterday, the Duke will bring laws and constitutions, then that's the case. But we'll find solutions, if this goes on, that we're looking for a different concept, and we're looking for a nice match and the Sword unites in one territory, they create an autonomy, so maybe part of the Užice will join there. Then worse, no Serbia. Gentlemen in power, break down Serbia, but you won't be able to break it down. Positive forces will prevail, there will be elections, and you will not be on stage.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16702	Is anyone else applying for a word from the authorized participants in the debate? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 47, against 88, the abstentioned 16, was not voted 18, out of 169 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposed amendment to Article 13. National MP Goran Cvetanovic submitted to the 13th amendment. The proposer's representative and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The amendmentr wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16703	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let's see who the promoters are first. If we see Mr. Joseph Kasu, we need to know that on the land surface that Joseph Kass took in Subotica can build his own country a bar the size of Liechtenstein.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16704	Mr. Cvetanović, I warn you to return to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16705	Since the speaker himself, Mr. Nenad Canak, is seeking an act of goodwill. It was probably his last visit to Milutinovic, when he humbly sought amnesty for the conduct in which he expressed hatred for Serbs.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16706	Mr. Cvetanović, for the second time, I warn you to return to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16707	That's why I'm asking the MPs - do you think it's necessary to give the AP Vojvodina's authority in the field of secondary education and education? In this way, the Republic of Serbia loses some of its sovereignty and territorial integrity, because if the SRS amendment is not adopted, then the republican authorities no longer regulate and provide an area of secondary education and education, and thus there is no control of the republican authorities over this region in Vojvodina. By who knows which way DOS proposes members of the laws that oppose the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, but do so all the time because the Constitutional Court does not exist. That is why this law is proposed which is neither legal nor legitimate. In Article 13, first and foremost, there are points that can remain, such as, say, point 1, where a network of secondary schools is established, but by amendment of the SRS to point 2, where the establishment of secondary schools is spoken of, is proposed to be deleted. Points 4, 5 and 6 - are said to give consent to the exercise of activity outside the seat and to agree on the achievement of the curricula and programmes in the languages of national minorities. I ask you, how is it possible for a lower body to give consent to a higher body, and therefore, in the amendment of the SRS, it is proposed that instead of the word "conformity" be "thinking", which is absolutely appropriate, that the lower body gives only its opinion to the higher body, and that the higher body then assesses and determines on that basis. Point 7. - determines the number of students to enroll in high school and gives consent to the number of students to acquire professional training - and how to delete. Point 8. - gives an opinion in the process of adopting school plans and programmes - should remain because they know best the programme in that part; while points 9, 10 and 11 should and should be deleted. Point 12 needs to be deleted. Point 13, - conducts the procedure on request for the protection of the rights of students - should remain. It is confirmed that the archive structure has been destroyed or disappeared -- points 16, 17 and 18, where it is proposed that members of the school board can remain in charge, means under the jurisdiction of the province. What certainly concerns the Serbian Radical Party is points 19, 20, 21, 22 and 23. In any case, it cannot be under the authority of the Vojvodina to carry out the nostrification and correction of documents acquired abroad, as well as the annulment of public documents, to supervise the legality of work and school acts, as well as to supervise schools in the municipality, or the city, which did not organise this surveillance. Point 23 should certainly be deleted, for point 23 states that it resolves by appeal for the resolution of the municipal, or city administration, brought into inspection. In the end, attitude two itself should be deleted. So it is known what is the authority of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the Ministry of Education in the whole territory, and what is the authority of the province.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16708	The word is Vojislav Seselj, president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16709	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this member of the bill, the omnibus, as you call it, shows that the Dossage Authority absolutely doesn't care about what she promised in her pre-election program. You are introducing, reaffirming, restoring a rigid, ethical and bureaucratic concept of education. You here suggest that an autonomous province will establish a network of secondary schools, instead of going to reform the already existing law on secondary education and allow institutional introduction and private secondary schools, alongside state schools, and freedom to form secondary schools under certain conditions. You stick to the net and you don't put anything off the grid. It's a bureaucratic concept. Furthermore, it is said here that the province itself will establish high schools and determine their network. So that's how it comes out of the Serbian system. If for the rest of Serbia there will be one network, one system, and for the province another network and another system, what factor will make it even? That factor doesn't exist. Next, here you pretend to improve the position of members of national minorities in the field of education. You're not fixing anything for them. What was the responsibility of the Republic Minister will now be the jurisdiction of the province, and nothing more. Now the province will bring programmes for the languages of national minorities. Why? Why don't you let the authorities of local self-government do it, based on the general frameworks set by the Republic? Why would the position of national minorities in Vojvodina be different from that of national minorities in the rest of Serbia? Why would the position of Hungarians in Vojvodina, or Romanians, Russians, Slovaks and others be different from the position of Bulgarians in the rest of Serbia, for example? I guess the status of national minorities must be even. If we are to determine the same status of all national minorities in Serbia, then it must be uniformly regulated at Serbia's level, not by a concrete regime in Serbia that depends on the rest of Serbia's situation, on the concrete regime in Vojvodina as it will be in Vojvodina. In point 12, for which our MP Cvetanovic requests to be deleted, you say that the province will agree with the minister responsible for education tasks to approve textbooks and teaching tools for individual items of interest for national minorities. You're here to hint at an agreement. It's like Zika Berisavljevic wrote this. This is from the time of self-government agreements and social agreements. You are predicting a law agreement, and imagine now: the Republic Minister of Education is from the Serbian Radical Party, and the province's minister is from Canko's party -- head on board, I say there will never be a possible agreement. The law says - the agreement, and they won't agree. Then what? Why didn't you think about it? You can't legally standard something that's practically impossible to implement. They may be able to agree on certain issues, but the law cannot force them to agree if they do not. These are very serious questions. I know it's easiest not to think, not to read, to raise your hand, to insert a card, to press a key, and it's over. It is the easiest, and then a tragic fate of the Serbian people and your role in promoting that tragic fate will be sung next to the geese. Next, there's even talk here about a school calendar. One school calendar will exist for the province of Vojvodina and the other for the rest of Serbia. What does that mean? So, when there's a break for high school in Serbia, there won't be a break in Vojvodina or vice versa. What else does that calendar mean? Perhaps you will introduce in Vojvodina that you are going to school on Saturdays and Sundays, and in the rest of Serbia there will be no such thing, etc. A whole series of amazing situations can happen in practice if such a law is passed.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16710	Is anyone else answering for a word on this? The word has a People's MP, Zeljo Huric.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16711	Ladies and gentlemen, with this amendment, the whole article is trying to erase itself in a very good way. Those points which are intended to remain within this article literally do not constitute any substance of this article. Therefore, the amendment should not be accepted and I suggest that it be voted against.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16712	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. 53, against 85, with 22 abstention, did not vote 15, out of 175 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 13 of the amendment. The proposer's representative accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Members of the 14th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic and MP Bora Stanimirovic. Do the applicants want a word? The word is made by MP Srboljub Zivanovic, submitr of the amendment to Article 14.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16713	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 14 which reads: "Autonomic province, through its authorities, according to the law governing more education: 1) establish more schools; 2) determines the fulfilment of conditions for the start of work and the performance of higher schools; 3) determines the number of students for enrolment in higher schools; 4) appoints a higher school director, 5) appoints a part of the management body as a representative of the founders of higher schools, 6) performs administrative supervision. "This Article 14 should be deleted. Education in the Republic of Serbia is unique and under the same conditions available to all citizens. Today, in Serbia, no university or university can function independently without human help on the side. Programmes and work plans, as well as the establishment of other institutions, should be managed by the Republic Ministry of Education and Sports. We had a case, gentlemen, with the University of Pristina that, after the 1980s, the Regional Ministry of Education of Kosovo and Metohija took over these powers, and we know the results because since then, the University of Pristina has become a crucible of separatism and there is the beginning of the secession of Kosovo and Metohija. Ladies and gentlemen, territorial autonomy is always, to a greater or lesser extent, a threat to the preservation of the integrity of the state. Under normal circumstances, this danger does not have to be clearly expressed, but in crisis areas, such as ours, there are charges and initiatives for disintegration of the process. In modern history, no form of territorial autonomy has been immune to separatist tendencies. He regularly sought to make himself a political competitor of the central government. Since the central government has much more power than autonomy, it is its main guarantee, and the guarantee motives are contained in the desire to preserve political balance and avoid the dissatisfaction of the autonomous group, which could shake the stability of the political system. Gentlemen, today, when Serbia is once again ruled by old tried Tito's pioneer staff, the desire to share Serbia is emerging anyway. So every day we hear from leaders and leaders in the unfortunate DOS that Serbia should be divided into four, five or ten regions. The long known wish of Nenada Chanka (who, with his colorful scarf, wants to imitate the endangered Palestinian) to divide Vojvodina into Srem, Banat and Backa and to get a two-camel parliament, its own legislative and most part executive power, as well as complete independence. Apparently, he's not for separation, but he's only for these concessions he's looking for. Gentlemen, for the sake of running down RTS tables, Nenad Canak should, in every legal state, be incarcerated and responsible for his actions.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16714	Mr. Zivanovic, since you do not return to the agenda after my warning, I give you notice on the basis of Articles 102 and 103. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16715	There are similar requirements for Mile Isakov, and his separatist aspirations are selflessly joined by Mr. Joseph Kasa, who would separate the Northern District for himself. Today we are faced with this gentleman taking some kind of military documents that can be raised in Hungary for his national minority.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16716	Mr. Zivanovic, I give you a second warning, based on Articles 102 and 103.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16717	Serbian radicals are in principle for the unitary state, with an extremely national omen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16718	The word has been issued by MP Bora Stanimirovic, who submits amendments in the same text.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16719	Since it is a very important matter, education, and in view of the diametric opposite attitudes, and yesterday's discussion has shown and only the vote has confirmed it (we are just repeating it today), the SPS suggests that this Article 14 is deleted, not because we are for some minor autonomous rights of Vojvodina, but because it has already entered the assembly procedure one set of laws on elementary, secondary and high school, or university. These laws, especially the university law, provide for exactly what rights autonomous provinces are. Therefore, we see no reason to repeat certain things. That's our argument, which is why, under number one, we're asking this member to be deleted. So much earlier, that this material came in 17.12.2001, and you remember when we adopted the University Act in 1998, or the Higher and Higher Schools Act, that there were many criticisms precisely because of some of the views that appear in this law that is proposed today. We have criticised the selection of directors and deans of the university, or higher schools by representatives of the Government or the Minister of Education. Here it is now proposed, in Article 14, that the appointment of directors be carried out practically by the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina. What is it now? It is about some practical attitudes that greatly differ from what we want. Secondly, what I mentioned earlier: we suggest that this next member also be deleted for these very reasons, because these laws, which are proposed, provide for much greater rights to the autonomy of Vojvodina than is seen in this law. For example, an autonomous province is predicted to have a curricula. It is known who brings it, if it is known that there are about six higher education schools in Vojvodina, in Serbia a total of 12, that they practically have almost identical curricula, as they prepare children up to six years of age. What are the differences that the province has special rights, let's say, that it brings curricula or whether we are going to educate teachers in Sombor according to one teaching plan, whether it's the same in Jagodina or in another city by some third. This is our argument, which is why we suggested that Article 14 be deleted; so much earlier, as is the law on local self-government that gives even more rights and autonomy and all cities. Secondly, we are at the same time in favour of decentralisation, but let this decentralisation not only go to Novi Sad -- it goes to Somboro, Vrsac, to Subotica, to all the cities of Vojvodina and Serbia, practically. That is exactly what the members proposed in the new high school law are for.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16720	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? The word is made by MP Vojislav Seselj, president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16721	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, it would be good for the minister of justice and local self-government to explain to us what this means in point 6) of Article 14, where it is predicted that the autonomous province, through its authorities, in accordance with the law governing higher education, will exercise administrative oversight over higher schools. In this organised and systematic production of chaos, the creators of this legal project have completely left aside many organic laws that are not generally questioned by this omnibus law. Among them is the State Administration Act, as it is already called. How can the province exercise administrative oversight and the Republic cannot exercise administrative control over the authorities of the province in this case. Here, the province's competent authority is the highest authority to exercise administrative oversight. After that, only a administrative dispute can be conducted. There is no such possibility that the party, dissatisfied with the exercise of administrative supervision, tries to exercise its right through the Republic of Serbia, nor does the Republic of Serbia have any authority to exercise legal oversight. What does that mean? Here you show that your intention is to give the autonomous province sovereignty. One element of sovereignty is already gaining control. Administrative oversight is state control, and here is the highest instance of this administrative state control of the province. It's funny, just laugh. Some of them laughed before you, so their smile froze a long time ago. I insist that the minister explain this question to us here. How is it predicted for the province to exercise administrative supervision in higher schools, over the work of higher schools, and right after that in colleges. After college, we also have institutions of student and student standards.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16722	The word has a minister of justice and local self-government, Mr Vladan Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16723	This is what you learn in the third year of law school. I'm not that close to teaching administrative law from the third year of law school. I'm still a doctor of law, not a doctor of pre-war training, what to do. Some people are disabled by their ignorance. Other issues have been raised here; among other things, it is explained that by giving jurisdiction to the AP Vojvodina in certain areas, both original competences and transferred competences, which exists and which is fully in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, it is reportedly losing sovereignty over one part of state territory. It's, of course, nonsens, that those who pass law school know. Isn't that right? That's what passersbys know about law school. I don't have time for that yet. It is hypocritical that those who have lost sovereignty in the Serbian sanctity, Kosovo and Metohija are now saying that by giving jurisdiction (all over the world, regions, provinces, autonomous provinces will have powers) will lose sovereignty. We've heard those stories. So is the story of school and school care. What kind of school did we find? What do schools look like? What do schoolyards look like? What do school playgrounds look like? School cuisine? What's the personnel selection done? How are the elected directors? What was the material like? How were the textbooks? What were the salaries of the educators? The misery and the misery, the misery. It's the legacy of the past. Don't worry, we'll return the school to what glory it should have and that once had in Serbia, as we will restore lost sovereignty in Kosovo and Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-24-0.u16724	Thank you. This concludes today's work and continues on Monday, January 28th. We have another one on the record, and that's Mr. Zeljo Huric; we haven't finished discussing this amendment, but it's 6:00 p.m. and that's why we're finishing today's work. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, the session is attended by 178 MPs. Please, in order to determine the quorum, insert identification cards into MPs. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, we have a quorum and we can continue to work. I would like to inform you that they are prevented from attending the following MPs: Stevan Lilić, Meso Omerović, Zaharija Trnavčević, Petar Misic, Zoran Bošković, Bojana Aleksic, Momcilo Trajkovic, Jelena Milenković, Kermeci Karolj, Neda Arnerić, Vladimir Dobrosavljevic, Dragan Jočić, Biači Anton, Ratimir Svirčević, Srdjan Sikimić and (before noon) Zoran Novaković, Vasilija Pavić and Teodora Vlahović. I am informing the National Assembly that they are invited to attend: the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of Serbia; the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat; Nenad Canak, President of the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina and Dr Predrag Filipov, Vice-President of the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, as the mandated representatives of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, who has submitted a bill on the determination of certain competences of the autonomous province, whose consideration is under way. Also, according to members 83 and 84. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that I also invited representatives of the People's Movement "Resistance", as well as representatives of the Association of Families Kidnapped and Missing in Kosovo and Metohija. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: - PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON THE CONSTRUCTION OF AUTONOMAL AUTONOMITY (specificity) I remind you that the debate on the bill on the determination of certain jurisdiction of the autonomous province in particular was interrupted during the review of the amendment to Article 14, which, in the same text, was submitted by the MPs Srboljub Zivanovic and Bora Stanimirović. Also, I remind you, in the search for this amendment, besides the applicants of the amendments, the MP Dr Vojislav Seselj, the president of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group and Dr Vladan Batic, the minister of justice and local self-government, participated in the debate, was also announced by MP Zeljo Huric, as deputy president of the DOS-Reformists of Vojvodina and Sandzak Democratic Party. Does MP Zeljo Huric want a word?
