ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-12-0.u24093	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the Second Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 154 MPs attend today's session. In order to determine the quorum for work, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the MPs' units. I find that using the electronic system has established that we have a quorum to work with. I would like to inform you that they are prevented from attending the following MPs:Milan Radulović, Milutin Svetović, Aleksandar Stefanović, Dragan Jočić, Višnja Nežić, Branko Gligorić, Dusan Budisin, Branislav Grubački, Adam Urosevic, Miroslav Martic, Goran Ćirić, Dragan Sutanovac. The delay was announced by Milos Lučić, Vasilija Pavicevic and Miomir Tadic. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. Also, according to members 83 and 84. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that I invited representatives of the Centre for Free Elections and Democracy, the National Movement "Resist", the National Democratic Institute, the Association of University Professors and teachers of Serbia USAID to this session. I welcome the guests present. In accordance with Article 80(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 80(1). The Rules of Procedure, due to the need for the National Assembly to pass laws that the government proposes to continue its activities in determining and implementing tax reform in the Republic of Serbia. [[Applause]] I would like to inform you that a new parliamentary group called "National Socialists" has been educated in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. (Unfortunate a few MPs with shouting "wow" and banging on the benches. ) The National MP, Prof. Branislav Ivkovic, was appointed president of the parliamentary group, and MP Dragan Tomic, his deputy. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zarko Obradovic appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-12-0.u24094	Dear fellow MPs, I would like to say a few words on behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia. Believe me, this issue is peripheral to the fact of President Milosevic's illness and requires that he be allowed to defend himself from freedom, i.e. to be given proper medical care, but because of the dignity of this assembly, which apparently shows that he is not here, I must point to the violations of the Rules of Procedure. They refer to Articles 7 and 8. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly and on the illegal, non-business formation of a new parliamentary group. In Articles 7 and 8. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia are well written to verify the mandates of the MPs and from which election lists these MPs were elected. If the president of the National Assembly doesn't know that, I'll let her know. MPs, mentioned several days ago, said they had formed a new political party. I don't know what a man has to do anymore, so to understand, Article 88. The law on the election of MPs is very clear; the termination of each MP's mandate comes with the termination of membership in a political organisation. So, these mentioned MPs have established a new political party, and they have said so publicly. In addition, I must tell you that we, as the SPS, have excluded the MPs mentioned from membership. Just give me a few minutes. I know this is bitter truth, but it's worth hearing, the assembly works. And this assembly will pass, and there will be one clue to how she worked. We excluded those MPs from the SPS membership because they acted contrary to the programme and the Statute of the SPS, because they organised a false congress. The Management Board refused to discuss this on the grounds that at the request of citizens of Mihajl Markovic, the issue should be removed from the agenda until 6 extraordinary congresses are held and the issue of party management resolved. That extraordinary convention, the alleged, the fake, was held. A dispute was held before the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government. Mr. Sabic is a resolute minister and has been there so far. The dispute is under way, the debate is under way. The Ministry of State Administration and local self-government have reached a solution that rejects the group's request for registration in the register. In this solution, the ministry is taxed that 27 decisions by the relevant municipal committees have been falsified, that they have stolen the will of SPS members, that these meetings were attended by...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-12-0.u24095	Mr. Obradovic, thank you, you've done a violation of the Rules of Procedure. You overstepped for two minutes because you were distracted.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-12-0.u24096	I'm not finished.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-12-0.u24097	You have the right to hold a press conference. You've informed me of the breach of the Rules of Procedure and I ask you to leave the pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-12-0.u24098	I also informed the president of the National Assembly and Mr. Bosko Ristic, chairman of the Administrative Committee, that they were excluded from membership. He's got a solution to the department's resolution. People, if you don't respect yourself, how do you expect others to respect you? Mr. Sabic signed a solution that stands, which I also delivered to the president of the Assembly and to the chairman of the Administrative Committee. You can see clearly who the SPS is and who the SPS is. Those MPs were expelled from the party, but independently, they founded a new political party. Under the Law on the Selection of MPs, they have no right to be here.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-12-0.u24099	I warn you that you have exceeded your allowed time and that you are not talking about hurting the Rules of Procedure, but about your party's problems.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-12-0.u24100	This is a disgrace to the Assembly. They will experience the fate of all those who were before...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-12-0.u24101	Mr. Obradovic, on the basis of Article 101, I give you my first warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-12-0.u24102	This is a disgrace to the Assembly. You can do whatever you want, it's just a matter of how long you can. This is a shame.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-12-0.u24103	Mr. Obradovic, you know it well, but yet you have stated: The President of the Assembly does not decide either on the termination of the mandate or on the confirmation of new ones; it is the work of the Administrative Committee and until such a decision is sent to me, I cannot determine either the choice of new ones or the termination. Here you are, MP Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-12-0.u24104	I agree, Mrs. Micic, that you do not decide on the issue and that you could not return the kidnapped mandates to the SPS, you could not return the kidnapped mandates to Social Democracy. That's not your jurisdiction. That's where you're right. You have otherwise violated the Rules of Procedure. As soon as you saw that someone had filed a report that a parliamentary group had not been met with legal and business conditions, you had to return it and say - such a parliamentary group cannot exist. You are now forming a parliamentary party that was formed, founded, registered several days ago. So there's your violation of the Rules of Procedure. I suggest, since you've dealt with the DSS mandates so nicely, not to have a new assembly affair with the kidnapping of parliamentary mandates, but to return. The Socialists have taken parliamentary mandates from us many times before, and I don't feel sorry for them for what happened to them, and I like to repeat it often, to remind the public. But the same thing they did doesn't give you the right to do to them. The fact that they once broke the law doesn't give you the right to violate the law in the same way that you do, if we want a modern legal order. Secondly, the Supreme Court ruled that Vuk Obradovic is the president of the Social Democracy. If you have kicked Vuk Obradovic and his Social Democracy out of the DOS, then all the people on your list of candidates for MPs belonging to Social Democracy must be removed from the Assembly. You cannot now, despite the Supreme Court's decision, fake the merger of some unseen Social Democracy with the Social Democratic Union and keep the apostates of Vuk Obradovic in the National Assembly. I call upon you to make this congregation work normally. If the Rules of Procedure and the Law are respected, I guarantee you will never have an incident atmosphere and we will not pour you hundreds of amendments. If you break the Rules of Procedure, then we too must react by means of parliamentary obstruction. I suggest that, as President of the Assembly, you have the right to the Rules of Procedure, you request an emergency session of the Administrative Committee and that the National Assembly be implemented immediately on the matter of the five mandates of the SAA and on the issue of the fate of Social Democracy, so that this assembly will be of the aspect of the Constitution and of the law and that we go to work, in law-making and that the ordinary mathematical formula here prevails in the matter of voting or non-election, as it is in all other parliaments. (President: Speaking of respect for the Rules of Procedure, you have exceeded the allowed time). If you want to continue to create such an atmosphere, then the question of the purpose of parliamentary work is raised.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-12-0.u24105	There's no damage to the Rules of Procedure you advertised. Article 24. The Rules of Procedure say, "The delegation group is being established by submitting to the National Assembly a list of members signed by each member of the parliamentary group. The list specifically lists the president of the parliamentary group and his deputy." We're continuing our work. You were presented the minutes of the first session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002, held on 5 November 2002. As more than 126 MPs attend today's session, in particular 178 MPs, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from the previous session. I would like to inform you that the review in the Management Board's Office has found that none of the Members of the People's Parliaments delivered in writing an objection to the minutes of the previous session and I am voting on the minutes of the First Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002, held on 5 November 2002. For 101, against 13, a abstentioned one, was not voted 69, a total of 184 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the minutes from the previous session. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-12-0.u24106	Mrs. Micic, unfortunately, you have again violated the Rules of Procedure, because here you have read Article 24 paragraph 3 or Article 4, I do not know exactly which one was, but you have not called on the position of the 2nd member, who says: "The delegation group consists of the MPs of one political party, another political organisation or group of citizens who have at least five MPs". When you bind this attitude to the law, you realize that the parliamentary group cannot have a political party that has not participated at all in the elections. That's impossible. We have a proportionate electoral principle and a parliamentary group can only have a political party, coalition or a group of citizens who have participated in the elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-12-0.u24107	I've already answered that question. This is a decision taken by the Administrative Board, not by the President of the National Assembly. In the context of this session that has been delivered to you, the draft agenda for the session has been contained. Before setting out the agenda for the session, in accordance with the rules of the Rules of Procedure, we need to decide on a proposal to merge the debate. National MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the DOS parliamentary group - Serbia's Reform, on the basis of members 86 and 136. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that a discussion be brought together on the draft laws on the proposals for the laws under points one to seven of the proposed agenda, the draft law on the tax procedure and the tax administration, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Transport Taxes, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Taxes on Business Profits, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Taxes on Income of Citizens and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Actions. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: According to the Rules of Procedure. I would like to put forward a vote by MP Cedomir Jovanovic to bring together the debate on the draft laws on points one to seven of the proposed agenda. I ask the Members of Parliament to plead with the vote. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: Don't you give me according to the Rules of Procedure? When we're done voting. For 98, against 83, two abstentions, were not voted 11 out of 194 MPs. I understand that the National Assembly has adopted this proposal. (Vojislav Seselj, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure? ) Here you are, according to the Rules of Procedure, is the word of the People's MP Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-12-0.u24108	Mrs. Micic, you had to give me your word before this vote came. Now he's double-crossed the Rules of Procedure. On the occasion of the inclusion in the agenda of the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, the following infringements of the Rules of Procedure were made; first, Articles 80, paragraphs 1 and 2, which read as follows: "The President of the National Assembly shall determine the day and time of the meeting of the National Assembly, with a proposal for the agenda, at least seven days before the meeting is convened. Exceptionally, a notice on the time of the session and agenda can be delivered within a short period of time, with the President of the National Assembly obliged to explain such a procedure at the beginning of the session."
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-12-0.u24109	That's the kind of procedure that's justified.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-12-0.u24110	Please, take it easy. There's no law here on the agenda by emergency procedure. Therefore, you have nothing to argue about because no one has asked for an emergency procedure. For emergency procedures, there are other business circumstances, other business conditions. We also have certain rights if there is an emergency procedure. We don't have to endure three days earlier, but we can file amendments on the very day of the beginning of the session. Furthermore, Article 133(1) says: "The draft law addressed to the National Assembly by the President of the National Assembly immediately upon receipt shall be submitted to the MPs, to the committees responsible, and to the Government, if it is not the proposer." Paragraphs 1 and 2 of Article 134 states: "The draft law, drawn up in accordance with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, can be included in the agenda of the National Assembly's session within no less than 15 days and no longer than 60 days from the date of its submission. In exceptional cases, a 60-day period may be exceeded, but no longer than 30 days, and the president of the National Assembly will inform the MPs of the reasons for the overrun." The draft tax procedure and tax administration laws were delivered from the government to the Assembly on 14 October 2002. The president of the National Assembly sent the bill to the National MPs, an act of 6 November 2002, and MPs received it on 7 November 2002, with a call for a session to be held on 12 November and at which the bill will be the first item. Only one day after the adoption of the bill has expired the deadline for the amendment. In accordance with Article 134. Rules of Procedure, this bill could not be found on the agenda of the National Assembly. Based on Article 86. Rules of Procedure, we could have submitted a motion within 24 hours before the session began, to withdraw the item from the agenda, but this is also possible by reporting a breach of the Rules of Procedure. So, we can't do it at all today, that law has good qualities... (President: Time. ) Even many parts of that law will be commended, and of course we will have critical objections, but for these reasons today, he could not be included in the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-12-0.u24111	There is no breach of the Rules of Procedure since your laws were passed on October 7th, 2002, and you can check it yourself in the Service... (Tomislav Nikolic, from the place: To whom was it delivered? ) I have informed you why I called for a session within a short period of time than set out in Article 80(1). We're moving on to the establishment of the agenda in general. Since there was no proposal for an emergency procedure and proposals for amendments and additions to the proposed agenda, I would ask the Members of Parliament to make a statement on the agenda of the session in general. I'm putting on a vote on a draft agenda in general. For 94, against 84, the abstention of four, did not vote 13, out of 195 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not adopt the agenda of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002 as a whole. I said she didn't adopt, so I figure she didn't adopt.
