ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-23-0.u16432	Dear citizens of Serbia, the Honorable Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I appeal to Article 170. The Rules of Procedure, which speaks about the public in the work -- particularly in the first position, which says: "The National Assembly and its committees are public" Yesterday, the Association of Families of Kidnapped and Kidnapped, registered as an NGO, submitted a request to the President of the Assembly to allow their representatives to participate in the work of the Assembly as observers. I welcome that the People's Movement "Resistance" has its representatives as observers, but I don't think there should be any selection in the selection of these NGOs. If an NGO, especially when it comes to the people closest to them, has submitted a request for presence at these sessions, I call on the president of the Serbian Parliament to exercise its right to be governed by Article 83. The Rules of Procedure also invite them to participate in the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-23-0.u16433	Mr. Pelevic, I agree with you. I've already had a meeting with representatives of the Association of Missing and Kidnapped from Kosovo before, and before this decision to allow for greater participation by our citizens. I made a deal with them to deliver the list Monday and they'll also get my invitation to attend the sessions. There is a procedure, they have to deliver the list, you understand, as did the representatives of the People's Resistance Movement. In any case, they will be allowed to do so and will be invited to attend. I give my word to MP Milan Stanimirovic, after which he is declared for discussion is MP Djuro Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-23-0.u16434	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the question of the bill on the determination of certain powers of the AP Vojvodina from this pay phone is said almost everything from almost all current political points of view. In this way, two extreme halves of view of the problem were raised in front of Serbian citizens. On the one hand, those who deny the need for any autonomy of the Vojvodina, where, as one put it, nationalists prefer history and chauvinist geography. The other half are those who are also dissatisfied with the omnibus because it does not satisfy their appetites and regain autonomy as the return of some state prerogatives. They do not realise that changes in Serbia have not occurred in order to remove the previous regime and restore Broz and the 1974 Constitution. What is a common denominator for both of them is that the methods of the past, which have shown historical shortcomings, are trying to create a future in Serbia, not realizing that the wheel of history may be able to tap a little bit, but could not completely stop or turn back. Both of these extremes work equally against Serbia's European orientation. From this pay phone, someone also recognized yesterday a third concept or view of the issue of Vojvodina's autonomy, accusing that the culprits of the third concept, which avoids any kind of extremism, are members of the Democratic Party. I must confess that I am extremely honored with this claim. As a member of the DS and DOS candidate for the Serbian Parliament, I have promoted a programme of democratic government before the elections in a large number of stands before the elections, which includes the fourth section of decentralisation of government, and under the title of Vojvodina, the new government will establish a procedure for the return of true autonomy to authorities and organisations in Vojvodina. It will also establish a percentage of the original revenues that the province is directing towards the central budget, while all other revenues under the law will remain in the province for the exercise of its competences; the government will especially seek to ensure that the province is able to carry out its constitutional and legal competences uninterrupted. By voting for the omnibus law, we as DS members, and together with our DOS coalition partners as responsible politicians, we keep our promises made to the people in the election campaign. What do I see in the sense of adopting an omnibus law? Autonomous Vojvodina, as an unbreakable part of Serbia, must be returned with all competences; and improve the quality of services towards citizens in its territory; become the most efficient service of citizens. The goal must not be detached to ensure the expansion of its own government and the feudalisation of Serbia. Although some who see themselves as future feudals, they probably believe that from the angle of feudalism, feudalism is not so bad. If the omnibus law enables better personnel solutions, instead of the centralised ones so far, if the economy establishes the principles that anyone does as well as lives - who does well and lives well, and vice versa, who does bad and lives badly - if we open up the possibility of fostering the specificities of certain regions or areas and achieving the rights of national minorities, that I do not list further, everything has a deep meaning. After the end of this agenda, we will also have a law on local self-government, which will also allow us to increase the original revenues of municipalities and discuss where our money is. The answer will be, here they are in Vorbas, in Subotica, Zrenjanin, Nis, Vranja, Kragujevac, etc. Unfortunately, systemic changes can only produce fruit in a few years, and we have found a centralized, derelict and inadequate way of functioning the entire state, including local self-government. The decentralisation costs and the question is, could half the municipalities in Vojvodina be able to support themselves at this moment? Therefore, it is not necessary to lose sight of the fact that an efficient economy is the only way to achieve social and economic rights, and it is important to know that centralised and non-democratic societies are, by definition, inefficient. One of the founders of the Democratic Party Milan Grol, a long time ago, claimed that decentralisation of authorities could represent an effective dam for various separatists and that it from a democratic point of view meant expanding the area of participation of citizens in public life, and from a state point of view preserving and strengthening state integrity. The following instructions can be counted almost certainly on the preservation of Serbia's integrity, the establishment of its democratic structure and the rapid entry into European integration. Constitutional amendments from 1989 and the 1990 Constitution have centralised the state, and Vojvodina has been deprived of autonomy to the greatest extent and to address Kosovo and Metohija, among other things. We must be honest and say that this solution then had great support, almost plebiscitarian, in Vojvodina. A decade after that, we do not have the actual sovereignty over Kosovo and Metohija, and those who arrested Vlassi received in exchange for the inaccessible Thaci. In Vojvodina today, the reality in public opinion is that citizens' resolve, launched to preserve Serbia's unity, has been abused, autonomy turned into cartoons, form free of content and ordinary flora. No one needs a parliament that doesn't decide anything, no government that doesn't ask questions. Omnibus law poses no danger to the state of Serbia, such as those threatening to internationalise this issue or to fight for autonomy with any "other means", as their foothold among the people of Vojvodina is more than minor. There is no member of the Serbian nation who believes it is possible to separate, for example, the Mother of Serbian from Serbia, nor that descendant Milos Crnjanski, Mike Antic, Đura Jaksic, Branko Radcevic, Isidora Sekulic, Dragon, Styria, Stevan Sremac, Mihiz, Vaska Pope, Slobodan Jovanovic and others who would go this "other way" to separate the Serbian national entity. Serbia, which is not only a country in recovery but also a reconstruction, needs an autonomous Vojvodina and the development of a civil society based on human rights. Autonomous Vojvodina can and must be a bridge towards Europe for Serbia. National minorities must be associated with neighbours and other European peoples. Agriculture and the food industry is one of the drivers of the economic recovery of Vojvodina and Serbia. By adopting the omnibus law, we clearly say -- the statehood of Serbia, the autonomy of Vojvodina. With regard to the adoption of the omnibus law, Serbian citizens will be able to identify those who, as in many other issues, have approached many passions. Passion is a very bad ally in politics, unless of course it's a passion for the greater good. Therefore, the issue of restoring certain responsibilities to the Autonomous province of Vojvodina, the Democratic Party and the DOS are approaching rationally, handling political principles based on the passion for general good, accountability and prudence. I hope these principles define most MPs to vote for the adoption of the omnibus law.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-23-0.u16435	The word has the People's MP Đuro Popovic, followed by MP Bojan Pajtic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-23-0.u16436	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the bill to determine the jurisdiction of the province has once again assured us that the political option in the government called DOS insists on its wrong path. It continues to deal primarily with itself, forgetting its pre-election promises, least said, as well as the interest of the electoral body that led them to power. I said, they're dealing with themselves. This implies the DOS's tenacity to continue its political leaders and their escort to move into the armchairs; still, apparently, it seeks to pave the way for the rule of law to dominate foreign capital on our soil. What does this have to do with the proposal we're discussing today? Of course it does, and how much longer. The house is built on a foundation, not a roof. Instead of building our country on democratic grounds, to approach first the adoption of a new constitution, the proposal that is before us is being resolved, for God's sake, the interests of the citizens, in this case, of the people of Vojvodina. I'm saying, for God's sake, it's almost impossible to offer quick solutions to short breath. In addition, the legislator himself says in his own explanation, I will now quote: "A transitional solution should be provided for the adoption of a new constitution that would adequately regulate the status of the autonomous province. "If so, what a haste, isn't it far more directed to concentrate as soon as possible on the adoption of a new constitution, suited to the interests of all citizens, and in order to strengthen our country in general? In this regard, the story of the current government in Vojvodina unmistakably comes to the effect of setting up similar directors, presidents and board members, institutions to which certain republican responsibilities would be transferred. This envisions the imminent uplifting of the administration in Vojvodina and almost nothing more than that. The DOS has certainly failed the pre-election promises of its members in Vojvodina, who are late for their fulfillment. However, delays are much more important for all of the people of Vojvodina. So for six months, it was time for the new government to repay its debts to them. None of the promises made lightly, while at the same time, is an increasing burden that threatens the existence of a vast majority of the population in Vojvodina and Serbia in general. Among them are pensioners and disabled. Only these facts are not enough to temporarily remove from the agenda of the proposed law, especially as it will force us to focus as soon as possible on the adoption of a new constitution, which will be much more successful in resolving the issues that hit Vojvodina today, just like the people of Serbia. For these reasons, the Soviet Union will not support this draft law laying down certain competences of the Autonomous Province.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-23-0.u16437	The People's Messenger Bojan Pajtic has the word, and after him is the Messenger Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-23-0.u16438	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the figuratively observed omnibus law is a snow that fell not a hill. Finally, the difference between the reform and anti-reform forces in the Serbian political scene will be clearly defined. Indicating more than 200 responsibilities to the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina from 24 areas of social life, which makes more than 80% of the competences that can be granted under the existing Constitution, speak for themselves how significant this law is. Economism, efficiency, rationality, these are the basic epithets that can be given to this law. The start of regionalisation and decentralisation did not accidentally begin in Vojvodina because Vojvodina has democratically elected authorities, which Vojvodina has a constitutional foothold for decentralisation, because Vojvodina already owns an administrative apparatus, which can carry out such established and established powers. Those who claim that it is a presumption of jurisdiction that has no financial effects are sufficient just to look at the omnibus law. A few dozen times will have to be increased the province budget, not to mention that the "Serbian" and "Serbians" are practically being moved to the territory of Vojvodina, and that only the ownership in Novi Sad brings to the company "Serbian" about eight million marks a year. The exploitation of mineral raw materials, the introduction of fishing areas, the control of financial resources through pension- invalidity funds, will finally result in arguments coming out of the hands of those who claim that the transfer of funds from Vojvodina to other parts of the country is irrevocable - irrational and centralistic. I call on all the members of the DOS to support this law, because we need to be serious and responsible about matters of such importance. It is not serious and it is not responsible when some members, some DSS officials are involved in making an omnibus law, as the vice president of the province's government, Mr Bobic, who was even the bearer of a part of the business and even expressed dissatisfaction with the degree of jurisdiction that falls within its area, so areas of business in the AP Vojvodina without voting for the law in this assembly. Again, we repeat the situation of the Labour Act, when voted in principle against the law, and in particular for the law; or the Law on Extraprofit, when voted in favour of the Extraprofit Act, and Ministerrankovic of the DSS initiates the process of establishing the constitutionality and legality of the same law. It is not serious and responsible to run the state even when you are constantly raising tension over the issue of Vojvodina autonomy, and then you do not support the issue and the omnibus law at the Regional Assembly. Unfortunately, these are the learners of the League of Social Democrats Vojvodina and the Reform Party of Vojvodina. Unfortunately, Mr. Canak is not here today, but he himself was detained in the Vojvodina Assembly when the omnibus law was voted. After that, he set up an ultimatum: if Serbian Parliament MPs vote as he voted in the Regional Assembly, so if they do not support the omnibus law, and he himself did not support it, then his MPs will no longer support the Republic government. It's a great paradox. Ezen Jonesku would be green with envy, but unfortunately, there are too many expectations and too many hopes of Serbian citizens are invested in this law, especially the citizens of Vojvodina, so that such a twist could be made nice or attractive to anyone. The argument that a new constitution is needed to pass an omnibus law and to carry out decentralisation is completely pointless. The new constitution, or its adoption, cannot be time-dimensional. It is not just a constitutional procedure, which is complex and which lasts as long as it takes according to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, a moment that makes it impossible for us to predict when the constitution will be brought. It is a fact that it is necessary to agree on the appearance of this constitution, it is a fact that it is necessary to wait for a resolution of relations with Montenegro, because it is a completely large and dramatic difference between the constitution of the federal sovereign state and the constitution of the federal unit. In that sense, this law uses the democratic capacities of Articles 108 and 109. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia and determines those powers that can already be established. It is absolutely certain that the new constitution will dimensionalise decentralisation and predict more responsibilities for autonomous provinces and regions, for those units of decentralisation that we find necessary to organise at the level of the Republic of Serbia. In this sense, delaying the pledge to await a new constitution and preventing Vojvodina from spreading autonomy, giving its citizens more significant financial resources and starting to build a serious administrative apparatus on the territory of the AP Vojvodina, which will definitely have to be defined within the next few years, because it is five years and suffocated and destroyed by the laws passed by the previous regime. Some politicians, both in Vojvodina and here in this House, tried to downplay the importance of this law by giving it a party omen. Some dignitaries of the Vojvodjan Movement spoke of the fact that the omnibus had been legally asked for autonomy from the Democratic Party. Some SPS officials said that regardless of how ultimatums are set and how parties within the DOS are placed, it will be as DS says. Mr. Aleksandar Vukic himself said that the omnibus law is the result of an agreement between the New Sad and Belgrade Democrats. That's absolutely not true and it's an absolutely incorrect claim. Making an omnibus law is the enforcement of commitments made by DOS in the previous elections. The vast majority of DOS officials and members have actively participated in the adoption of this law and have actively contributed to making the law look what it looks like. So logical and consistent is their determination to support this law in this congregation. The Omnibus Law, it should be aware, does not give any state prerogativeAP to the Vojvodina. These are absolutely incorrect claims and they are absolutely misinformation, which are trying to place themselves on the citizens of Vojvodina. Neither such an act nor such a bill would have the support of DS and the vast majority of DOS members. That's why it's important to give the widest autonomy to Vojvodina. The concept of the Republic, which also exists as a political idea in some political organisations, actually implies the right to self-organise self-determination and we have seen what has resulted in previous years. We have seen in the case of both Croatia and Bosnia and Macedonia, and Slovenia, that practically in the international legal sense, in the political sense, the Republic, or the federal unit, was treated as a state unit, which has the right to self-organization and which has practically the right to self-determination, i.e. self-determination. But to make such ideas declassified, it is necessary for the country to be strongly decentralised in the financial, cultural and any other benefits of our citizens. The issue of Vojvodina has long been not a national issue, and it is a completely irrational thesis. It was a national issue 150 years ago, when the Vojvodina Serbs managed to vote for church-editing autonomy, to preserve their identity in the territory where the relative majority were located. So they weren't even an absolute majority in any foreign state. Today, about 70% of the population of Vojvodina are citizens of Serbian nationality. In this regard, it is declassified to say that such a population in its home country advocates, or to accept some other form of arrangement, or some other form of state. The Vojvodina is, above all, an economic, functional, financial, cultural, civilizational issue. The issue of Vojvodina is, in fact, the question of the difference between a senseless centralised, expensive, inefficient state, and a democratic, organised, cheap, efficient, modern European state. More than 70% of Vojvodina's citizens support the wider autonomy of Vojvodina, about 5% favour the Vojvodina Republic, about 5% favour an independent state, and about 20% have no defined stance or is defined for the lack of autonomy. Ezra Paund once said, "It's always easier to oppose something you haven't even tried to understand." Try, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, to understand the omnibus law, you will see how many good intentions and how many good ideas are in it. Try, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to understand the Duke, then you will surely love her more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-23-0.u16439	He has the word National MP Alexander Vucic [[right on line]]
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-23-0.u16440	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when I spoke in replicas of the status of the northern Serbian province, I was talking about a state issue, not a party position, any relationship, any political party to our Vojvodina, and that is what is not true in the presentation of my predecessor, and it is not a good thing to own the Vojvodina. Only those who come from the Vojvodina speak of the Vojvodina here, say it is theirs and how they have the right to decide. In the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group, more than a third of the members of the Vojvodina MPs are from all of the duchy districts here. The Serbian Radical Party was convincingly second in the last December elections in Vojvodina. We here have representatives of our party and from Srem, from the Srem County, from South-Balga, West-North-North-North-Banth-North-Banth-North-North-Banth-North-Bangat-North-Banth-North-Banth-North-Banth-Banth-North-Balth-Balth-North-Balth-Balth-Nine-Balkan-Balth-Balth-Balth-Balth-Balth-Balth. That's why no one can tell us that he prefers Vojvodina than representatives of the Serbian Radical Party. None of us could hear anything extreme, as some of us wanted to present to the public this morning. We don't stand for anything that's weird, funny, and we haven't done anything wrong to anyone. We ask only one thing - that the citizens of Vojvodina, any nationality they are, be equal and equal with all other citizens of Serbia, that they are in no way different. There's no difference between my mother who's originally from Vienna, if you want an native, or my father, who's an outsider. They're both Serbs, only someone was lucky or unhappy to be born 200km east or west of the river Drina or Danube. Do not tell our people that it will differ because of some particular features, specificities, when there is no difference between the members of the Serb people, except for the desire to continue to do harm to our national tissue, to continue to do harm to our country and to continue to disperse, to further destroy Serbia. Whether the reform forces that today in Serbia are in favour of Vojvodina obtaining such autonomy, that we get one legal chaos, that we do not know what our legal order will be and what laws will apply which it will not, or that we will have the right and opportunity to have a single Serbia, which is Serbia without the provinces, because the provinces are not a form of decentralisation but are already a form of territorial autonomy. That's what Mr. Pitiæ must know, unlike some of the others who went out here yesterday for this pay phone. So, we've never tried that before. We'd better try that solution sometime. If we had such a solution, if we had a single Serbia, then we could talk about what its shortcomings are, about giving greater authority to municipalities, wider authority to local self-government, to go to decentralised Serbia, but in no way can we support and seek, that we want and that we want Serbia to continue to part, to continue breaking Serbia. And that's not the issue of the Democratic Party, it's not a question of any party. It is a matter of state, a question of our people and the Serbian Radical Party would always interpret it that way. The Serbian Radical Party loves Vojvodina, loves Serbia, loves its country and loves its people, and therefore you will not be able to transfer it to us in any way...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-23-0.u16441	I warn you on time, Mr. Wolfie, it's five minutes. The replica lasts three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-23-0.u16442	I'm surprised you didn't give me a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-23-0.u16443	If you're looking for it, you'll get it. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-23-0.u16444	It's sad. It's not the Duke's handiwork. The Vojvodina is ours, Serbian, and all in this National Assembly. That's what happened. Be assured, that's how it's going to be the moment you leave power.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-23-0.u16445	The word is given by the MP Branisla Blazic, and then by the MP Dragan Marsican.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-23-0.u16446	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there are some European countries that have their own internal state problems, territorial and national, but these are countries that rest on solid foundations, they have no such problems and they cannot shake them. This is our state problem because we don't have such solid state foundations, we don't know what state we're going to have and when we're going to have it, and how this state crisis is going to end. Who, then, is in the interest that today, in such complex state conditions, is even more complicated and complicated by these opportunities? Is it here in the work of recruiting constitutional writers from 1974, who told the same story about democracy, equal rights, good intentions when it came to the autonomy of Vojvodina, and then imprisoned Professor Michael Djuric and Serbian intellectuals who pointed to all the problems that would be created by the 1974 Constitution, which indicated that it would be the trigger for the explosion that took place in the old Yugoslavia, for the evil and the accident that hit us. Is this an encouragement for people who want to destroy any attempt to create a stable Serbian state in the Balkans or is it about individuals who are turning their egotism and internal destruction into a political struggle. Here decentralisation is done by centralised. There is no centralization, gentlemen, no privatisation, no strengthening of local self-government and no depoliticization. Everything else is the political manipulation of now the autonomous summits of Novi Sad, which, in fact, hides its national defetism, its egotism and moral indifference with some Europeanism and autonomy. Gentlemen, it's tragic here that the personification of this struggle is in the image of a "insulated bar". What's he doing here? And why is it tragic? In fact, it's tragic that he came after the struggle of my ancestors, Serbs in Vojvodina, who advocated and their national consciousness crossed into a common state with Serbia. And he came to divide what others once united. He came without a passport, and now he's offering passports in Vojvodina. I've had enough of these fake pacifists who carried candles around Vojvodina, when Serbian houses burned in Krajina and Republika Srpska, called for defetism and desertion, and now they say they'll build barricades and promise various types of fighting for their political goals. And on those barricades, gentlemen, sometimes you stay. We know and remember the autonomists. I remember when they were out of kickinda carrying everything that was worth it, and even the jury account of "Naftagas," so Kikinda stagnated afterwards. Canka Vocabulary means we want our money, but Chanak wants our money. We're a small country and a small nation and we have no moral right to share anymore. Let us remember historically, this is what they teach us in Vojvodina - that we must not be naive at all. Therefore, gentlemen of the DOS, you who will vote should know well that this is not the political will of the citizens of Vojvodina. There are barely 25% of the people of Vojvodina behind this. Don't pull out any votes from DOS containers and say that behind this is the Vojvodina, that it's their wish. It's not their wish. If you don't believe it, please, gentlemen, call the election in Vojvodina, start with this, and you'll see how many votes there will be for this. So we can talk about some injustices, we can talk about something that is illogical in the entire organization of the state, but we can't decentralisation by centralised. We cannot do decentralisation by breaking the Serbian state. I think we're mature enough and smart enough to make it right without breaking something that's our condition. We're too small. This was about some Bavaria and some other areas in other countries. Please, the whole of Serbia is smaller than one small region of European significant and powerful states.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-23-0.u16447	The People's Messenger Dragan the Martian has a word, and after him is the Messenger of the people, Sredo (Mihail).
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-23-0.u16448	Thank you, Madam President. Dear People's MPs, first of all to thank Mrs. Micic for giving me her word even though I was away yesterday at a time when I was declared to speak. I think it's a good practice to apply, because I was justifiably absent. The fact that you agree with is that we live in a far, deep and irrationally centralised state, poorly based on a poor constitution and in a state where democratic institutions are not built. We need to change all that. We promised all of this to change, so we made a commitment in the first year to launch an initiative to adopt a new Serbian constitution, as well as to initiate and determine the procedure for it. I would also like to say that it is not true that the democratic opposition has pledged to return and create the actual autonomy of Vojvodina in a year, but that it will establish a procedure to restore the actual autonomy of Vojvodina. These are our promises and that's what we need to do. Indeed, we here in some way, as well as in deciding on any other important law, will be divided, and when I say - we will share, by voting and attitudes, express our different political views. But not in the way that an MP before me said it - by showing who represents reform and who is against reform, because then we would have to first agree on what reforms are, and we don't have that political consensus. No one has the right to declare reforms part of a joint programme, which we created as a broad coalition a year ago, not a single part of the government's programme, which we as a coalition, which supports the government, a year ago, together and as an integral part of the coalition agreement. Uh, this law is not reform law, and that's the essence of things, the essence of the manipulations that we've been present in the debate so far. Why isn't he reformed? Because, on the one hand, the MPs of all the duchy parties agree, this law does not in any way determine the actual autonomy of the Vojvodina, and on the other hand the time when the actual autonomy of the Vojvodina, which the Democratic Party of Serbia advocates, but not only of the Vojvodina but of other regions, as it sees it, will be delayed by a new constitution. It is false that we do not know when the new constitution will be brought. There is quite good experience for this, and if there is political will, then this political will can also be expressed by a responsible approach to the debate on the new constitution, which, among other things, can provide for the real autonomy of Vojvodina. There are no laws like this with the real autonomy of Vojvodina. There is no "a" of autonomy, nor in the law on local self-government, which will be on the agenda, there is no "l" or "s" of local self-government, on the contrary. That is why the Democratic Party of Serbia will not support the law, believing that the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina, as well as other regions in Serbia, which, according to our proposal, should be established by the new constitution of Serbia. What is the actual autonomy of the Duke? The actual autonomy of the Vojvodina and the real regional autonomy of other regions in Serbia implies the original competences of the region; it implies the original revenues of the region; it implies the right to adopt laws in areas that are defined as the original part of the region and the jurisdiction of the region, thereby and Vojvodina; it provides for supervision of the conduct of these tasks and participation of the citizens of the region, i.e. Vojvodina in this particular case in the central government, through the Greater region of the National Assembly. It's, in short, real autonomy. Here we have a proposal to entrust a certain circle of affairs to the execution of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina. This applies to one wrong, partial, because it applies only to part of Serbia's territory, to one temporarily, because it will only apply to the adoption of a new constitution, and in a way that puts citizens of Serbia in an unequal position, settles a number of issues which will be sought by parties that have reached a party consensus to convince the people of Vojvodina that they have taken a step towards autonomy. They did not do so, and this is actually about a compromise of political parties, duchy parties and the Democratic Party, to make one quasi-sacrifice, one bad solution, trying to convince the people of Vojvodina that this solution is significant for them, that they will participate in another way in the government, that they will have control of the funds. And of all that, of course, neither can, nor will it be, because there are really no points of contact, but they want to absorb the need, the pressure to adopt a new constitution, which requires, among other things, the real autonomy of the Vojvodina. That is the essence of the prank, according to the president of the Vojvodina Assembly, a prank that seems to be the law. For these reasons, because this law gets a partial, partial and temporary solution, a false solution, a quasi-resect, the Democratic Party of Serbia will not support the law by insisting that the new constitution, which will ensure regional autonomy for all regions in Serbia, will be adopted as a democratic constitution, which will regulate Serbia as a democratic regional state.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-23-0.u16449	The People's Messenger Sredoje Mihajlov has the word, and after him the Messenger of the people, Stevan Z. Gudurić.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-23-0.u16450	Dear Presidency, honourable MPs, here's something I should say about why the Dukes are looking for this economic autonomy, why they're pushing for it, and what are the reasons. It is that I will remind you of something you already know, but it is not a waste to hear the reasons why we consider it necessary to vote for this law. First of all, to remind you, to go back to history, Serbs after Kosovo's color retreated to the territory of Vojvodina and the despot Stefan Lazarevic, as has been said, founded that Serb community that was autonomous, which had already had its courts and it lasted. Of course, nobility has been lost for years, but that heart remains in those places. There's the largest number of churches and there's a Patriarch back there. The Patriarchy has been moved from Sremski Karlovac to Belgrade, we have preserved it for centuries and it does not take some patriots to remind us how many Serbs we are and whether we are Serbs. You can count the churches, you can understand that we also got autonomy when we had 17% of the population in that territory. So we haven't forgotten that, but let me remind you again something about the economy, and as far as that Serbian face is concerned, we can talk, talk and see that we've always been unequal, but even multinationally defined than others might think who don't. So, the arrangement of Vojvodina and Banat began, they were rhythms and swamps, somewhere in the 16th century and in the 17th century, the canals were built because Vojvodina had dried up. So now there's one of the largest channel networks in the world, and it's not that Vojvodina is going to have something that's gone, it's something it's had for centuries; and in the present, it's the most self-indulgent contribution to the water industry, and at least those channels are being maintained; and now it's happening that we're drowning because of the great waters, which hasn't happened to us for centuries, because we knew we were defending ourselves from these waters. The fact is, that cashier came in here and it was being deployed in some other way, and we were singled out and we didn't get it back. The fact is, gentlemen, that in Vojvodina over the centuries it has settled as in the promised land, as in America, and that is why it is multinational. The French, the Spanish, the Hungarians, the Slovaks, the Russians, the southern Serbs, the Bulgarians, and anyone who arrived in Vojvodina is welcome. That's why she did it. They convinced the government that they were worthy, that they deserved it, and that's why she gave them autonomy, because they proved to be good hosts, as hardworking workers, as Europeans. Let me remind you, seeing as you're not interested in this, but I will tell you that I come from a city where my high school, which I finished, celebrates 156 years of existence, my primary school celebrates the next year of 250 years of existence and means teaching in Serbian. Not even Vuk Karadzic was born then. Our post office is 100 years older than the Belgrade post office, the railway has 146 years of existence and, gentlemen, we've had it all for centuries. That power, no matter how small we were, respected us. For example, I will tell you - the area of the farmland of the present-day Vojvodina is 1,628,000 acres [1,628,000 ha]. That's more than there is Holland, Belgium and Luxembourg together. The fact is that 75% of the land that exists in Vojvodina is processed. No country in Europe has that: Denmark has 63%, Hungary is 59%, and Romania is 45% compared to the total area. With the entry of Vojvodina into a small poor country, all ties to the European market are interrupted and this has been reflected in the Vojvodina economy. According to data published by the Vojvodian Banks Association, the 1928 report, in the first decade of a joint life in the new state, reduced the banking potential in Vojvodina, so that the total assets of the accounts by official parities, one gold crown - one gold dinar in 1913; one gold crown - 10.95 paper dinars in 1928 or 522 million gold dinars in 1913 was 199 million paper dinars in 1928. Liaison with foreign banks, reesconts, has been cut off, so jobs previously done via large stock exchange banks in Vienna and Pesta have been reduced from 87 million to 10 million. It also means that the loans that Vojvodina had from the Western banks stopped coming to Vojvodina. Why was national income in Vojvodina below 1913 a decade after World War I ended? The conversion of monetary capital from crown to dinar has reduced the financial power of wealthy Vojvodina from 5.323 million crowns to 1,699 million crowns. In addition, the Serbian Radical government tried to establish an enterprise that would regulate the monopoly position of grain exports, as grain was not exported to Europe for three years. When the wheat was sold in Zurich in 1923, our exporters of duchy wheat were "breathing" at the jobs that this radical company was exporting at the time. Neither was it, according to Vasa Stajic, the "bankocratic ratarluk, nor the politics of drunken radicals" the biggest reason for the robbery of Vojvodina, but it was also the tax system. In the Kingdom of SHS, Vojvodina was the most tax-laden area. There was a war profit tax; the tax was not paid on good or on tobacco profits, but 60 percent of the assets were taken on base. They were all burdened, no matter what profit. The tax collectors were not the Dukes, but the personnel were sent from other parts, for they were deemed not to know it. Here's how it looked. In 1925, 131 million of these taxes were charged in Banat, Backo and Baranja, and 70 million were to be charged. So the tax collectors charged twice as much. Do you want me to read to you further, how in other regions did that look? A hundred percent more charged than planned: 66 million in Slavonia, and 54 is planned; in Montenegro 60 million and 71 million is planned, etc. (Lowers from the O.R.: Theme. Gentlemen, I know it's hard for you to listen to, but that's the subject and that's the reason. I'll remind you one more thing: And after the release, the most Banacans were in prisons, which failed to fulfil their obligation or that required ransom. There were others in the mines, and they left the bones there under new authority. 59 factories from Vojvodina have been relocated, as some military doctrine has been so determined, and Vojvodina has not received a dinar for it. I can tell you more about economic reform, because I can see that you are impatient. The reason is that Vojvodina did it without control and allowed it to be done to her. I'm not saying it's other people's faults, it's the Dukes, who looked at it peacefully, who didn't react. Now comes a new democratic power that wants not to correct but to stop injustice. Gentlemen, if we were in that hated state such that we had entered 45% of the railway lines as a dowry in Yugoslavia, if we brought culture, factories, industry, if we were the most developed part of that Kingdom of SHS, that authority respected us. We now expect you, gentlemen, from this democratic authority, from those of you who are reasonable to hear the facts. It's nothing offensive, it's a fact and it doesn't hurt. It's just facts. We'd like to not build a new state on such principles as we've done before. That's why I suggest we vote for this, at least minimally, law, that won't satisfy us duchess, because it's normal that there's no choice but to get no money, but it's only a sign of goodwill that you've respected something for some injustice that's been happening to us for the last 80 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-23-0.u16451	The word has a folk MP, Stevan Ž. Guduric, followed by a folk MP, Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-23-0.u16452	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we're talking about a law that doesn't even have a full title. That title is probably the problem of whoever made it. I want to say a few things. Every reference to some historical tradition of the autonomous position of Vojvodina, as the basis for the foundation of its independence and quasi or real statehood, is a completely pointless mystery. Vojvodina never in history, from Roman imperial times to Tito's Yugoslavia, possessed any territorial or political or even cultural autonomy. The Dukeship of Serbia and the Tamiska Banat from 1849 to 1860 absolutely had no character and status that would correspond to his name. It was one of the administrative areas of the highly centralised Habsburg Empire, which was managed in the most bureaucratic way from Vienna and whose borders were not even the whole area of the current Vojvodina. Anything else considered a tradition of Vojvodina's autonomy literally comes down to a constantly threatened and limited Serbian church-school autonomy, which is at the end of 1912 and, as such, abolished. And, on the other hand, on a tough and unsuccessful over two centuries of debt, starting in 1691, the struggle by Serbs to for their national survival in Austria, and since 1867 in Hungary, to gain political and territorial guarantees in the form of reduced autonomy in the area. In addition to the absence of this historic, Vojvodina does not meet the second essential precondition for acquisition, in today's conditions, of a special state. There is neither national homogeneity nor embryonic state-of-the-art consciousness in its multinational being. Such awareness exists only in the heads of third-rate politicians, over-ambitious and grammatical towards the authorities and the benefits they bear. There are also in the heads of those speculators who understand that trade in the state and its survival is the most profitable business. Despite everything, a certain awareness of autonomy, of Vojvodina as a specific mentality, as a spiritual, cultural, and political continent, exists in public and it is quite widespread. That should be respected, in the right way, not for any commercial reasons. Because here some colleagues were talking, and yesterday we heard Mr. Chanko and Mr. Djindjic, who seem to not know what it says under this law. It says there government representatives and the Vojvodina Executive Council agreed to make this mess out of the law and propose it to us. Apparently, some people who talked yesterday don't remember that. Read, gentlemen of the DOS, and remind your prime minister that in your December election pamphlet you have written that you will, firstly in the new assembly, bring a declaration that there is a change of constitution. Then remind the prime minister that he doesn't need any MPs or citizens of Serbia to be here, as yesterday -- can't be cast down to lie when he's not here -- but in any case he wasn't telling the truth, otherwise, when he said they didn't even talk about a constitution in the election campaign. Let them simply read what they wrote to the citizens of Serbia and on what basis they won the elections. It'll probably be stories, I'm photocopying because you probably lost, so you'll read it one more time. We'll talk about this law if you adopt it in principle. Then there's plenty of wonderful ones for later. Just think, when you go out here for a pay phone, you still talk about some facts and some truths.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-23-0.u16453	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Gordana Comic, followed by MP Zoran Novakovic. Please step back.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-23-0.u16454	Ladies and gentlemen, today's topic that we are dealing with as a part of the agenda at the session of the Serbian Parliament is a subject that is obviously much more in our discussions than a comment on the provisions and articles of the law on certain competences of an autonomous province. That's what it's called and that's what it has to be called, because it's in agreement with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Good or bad, he's what he is until we change him. It's our proposal - let's apply it. Why is it more than provisions and comments on the members of the law themselves? Because this is a topic where there is a wide field of prejudice, for arbitrary information, for your own fears. That's why most of the discussion is conceived as a theme that interprets other people's intentions, not the text that is before us. That's understandable. It's understandable for a number of reasons. First, which is very well known that the topic of Vojvodina's autonomy is something that can be controversial in the public of Serbia. Luckily, it's not anymore. It was fully justified to be controversial in January 2001, but it is now a topic that is fully clarified in all decision-making places. So that I don't fall into a trap to interpret other people's intentions, I'll talk about my intentions. In short, I will also try to inform you all about the fact that the work has been going on about restoring certain responsibilities and thus getting to know the public in Serbia. So, in January of the month, when we entered the Republic Assembly and in November when we entered the AP Vojvodina Assembly, we had a choice to define the problem. The problem is called: that you have the Constitution as you have, with an extremely small democratic capacity and that this Constitution, as it is, has not been applied on the territory or on the AP Vojvodina, and rich in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, political will, of course, which was the autonomous right of those who previously trusted in managing public affairs in Serbia and Vojvodina. Then when you define such a problem, then you say, "What do we do now?" We have two solutions. Both of us from the point of view of our wishes and the way we want to live are equally bad. It's one thing to let the subject of the Vojvodina be caused by a crisis. So within the group that won the election, within the opposition, within the public, to polarise on the subject of the Vojvodina, something that is the attitudes of all of us living in Serbia. The second is to push the subject of the Duke under the carpet and say, "We'll talk about it sometime, one day, when the conditions come to pass." The assessment was that a compromise should be found and that both solutions were not good. What's in front of you is a compromise. Why is it causing so much emotion the compromise that lies ahead of you? Because if we choose to vote for the law on certain responsibilities of the province of Vojvodina, and later in the debate, improve the Law on Local Self-Government, then we will forever change the character of the government and the character that has been managed in the Republic of Serbia. It is not disputed that each of us has the right to a political programme. I am pleased to hear from everyone clearly, as the attitude here has been heard: autonomy should be abolished. It's from the point of view of such a political option completely legal. It's good to make it clear what the request is. What's less good: we need autonomy but real autonomy; but not now but Monday afternoon; but in spring. So that's the attitude, I'm not going to tell you that I don't want autonomy, because I know it's not popular in the people of Vojvodina, but it's popular in the people of Belgrade and other parts of Serbia. I won't tell you autonomy, I'll tell you regionalism, so you don't see autonomy. It is not something that will pass as a message of public opinion and, right to tell you, knowing all my friends in Serbia, I would now bet a low principality as a region, on that path. It will be the subject of a public debate, a genuine public debate. And in the beginning, if it's regionalism that's not drawing maps, then it's good. If drawing is a map, then it's not good. What will be made possible by this law on certain competencies of the AP Vovojodin? By changing the character of the government we have shown that there are responsible people, both in every municipality in Vojvodina and Serbia, and in the Executive Council and in the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, these responsible people will have entrusted jobs from the area, defined in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. As defined by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, these jobs are entrusted with the law. What no one here is going to say, because our friends don't come out of regional parties, from Vojvodina, which is that the laws you trust can and can't convince them, and that's what they don't like. That's what these people don't like, because then they lose their argument: here's our secession, here's our secession, here's our evil. It is simply the natural right of every political party to address its electoral body and to form an election campaign for this speaker. And that's comfortable. I do not have such a committee, because by taking over public affairs in Serbia, we have taken responsibility for the outcome of the management of these public affairs. It is the right of the opposition and it is good that the result is assessed and assessed as small or none, hoping to pick up something which is a political attraction for its own political option. That can't stop us from working on the results and working on the results in Vojvodina. We are essentially offering a changed character of how public affairs are managed, the division of responsibilities, because the law on certain responsibilities is a division of responsibilities, not a division of responsibilities. The character of the government will change, and for the first time you will open the way for the government to become a real public service to citizens. To get a citizen out of power what you're really choosing for, which is to do your job effectively with that authority. These are the reasons why I insist on any solution that is a compromise and that goes in that European spirit, however negative there are here when it comes to Europe. Where does fear come from? The fear is that if there are responsible people in Vojvodina, then there are responsible people at the level of local self-government. Why there won't be stories about how some of the municipalities will secede and have problems because they get their original powers, get entrusted jobs, get their benefits from the Serbian Parliament's new law on local self-government. Because it's the interest of the majority. On the issue of Vojvodina, it doesn't look like it's the interest of the majority, which it is. The autonomy of Vojvodina is good news for Serbia because by changing what is respect for legal documents, such as the Constitution of the 1990s, whatever you think of it, you prove that you are capable of applying regulations, because it is the essence of a regulated government. When we get better regulations, we'll apply them, too, and that's the point. When they come to power those who want to end autonomy, if they have a majority, then they'll do it, but we'll all have results in those areas. Why is Vojvodina still good news? Because the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina Assembly uses this minimum democratic capacity of this constitution and these are facts that are not to be discussed here. For the first time in the spring session of the National Assembly, again under the Constitution, the Vojvodina Assembly submitted amendments to some of the laws, where these amendments were discussed, because that is the essence of the Assembly, these amendments were adopted. For the first time since the spring of this year, Vojvodina has received its original income since 1990, since all the original incomes have been taken away, not by the Constitution, but by political will, independently, by the private political will of those who have managed us. The fact that for the first time, which is the same constitutional right, on the agenda is something that is proposed by the Vojvodina Assembly, is already good news for the changed atmosphere, for the changed character of the government. To end with what my subject is, which is that whenever you talk about state planning, you're essentially talking about money and power. When you talk about money, then I ask you to bear in mind the dissatisfaction of my friends from Vojvodina and the dissatisfaction of my friends from other parts of the Republic. I will compare the Belgrade Assembly and the Vojvodina Assembly. Since 1990, the Vojvodina Assembly has not had one single dinar of income to collect or control from its territory. The Vojvodina Assembly had salaries of employees in the Service, in the Assembly, in the Executive Council, and they were positions in the republican budget. Let's hypothetically turn things around, let's suggest that the Assembly of Belgrade and the municipalities take away all the original revenues and say -- now help Belgrade and now manage what is in Belgrade. I said no one will be pleased and it is heard by reactions, friends from Vojvodina are a little quieter by nature than things, but friends from Belgrade and other parts of Serbia are making noises, same by the nature of things. So, what will be a direct result of the application of the law on certain responsibilities is the source of income, the management of confidential transactions by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, by a certain decision of this National Assembly, under the supervision of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and by the control of all state authorities of the Republic of Serbia. These are facts, and for everyone else who likes to deal with imagination and emotion, this congregation is of course a place to do it, but to their harm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-23-0.u16455	The People's MP Zoran Nivakovic has the word, followed by MP Aleksandar Vukic. I would only point out that the Soviet Union, whose member you are, has five minutes left, that the DOS parliamentary group has 38 minutes, but only one registered speaker, the DSS has no registered speakers, the SPS has 24 minutes and 30 seconds, and the Serbian Radical Party 15 minutes and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-23-0.u16456	Dear citizens, honourable fellow MPs, I am very sorry that the prime minister is not here and that Mr. Proposer, namely Nenad Canak, is not there. I'll just go back to yesterday in a few sentences. Yesterday, the prime minister, Mr. Djindjic, told us, "The Constitution is one thing, and life is something else." That would have to explain a little to its voters and to the citizens of our republic at all. By the way, he mentioned that there was something third, and that is perhaps the most dangerous, he mentioned it as someone's terms, so I'm sorry he didn't want to explain to us whose terms these are and what are the additional conditions for this law to be passed. This is about the so-called omnibus law. I asked some MPs what the omnibus meant, and some told me it looked like a Nenada Chanka minibus. So this is the omnibus law, and I'm asking you -- since I read, write and understand our Cyrillic -- what is it? Is that a Serbian bus for somewhere? If this is a bus for Europe, let me inform you, if you are already chronically uninformed, that we in Europe are always, always and now, even before many of the current European leading people, and if you do not know history, read the history of Serbs in Dr Jovan Deretic, your fellow MP in this assembly. Serbian history, and also the history of Dukeship's autonomy, and I would like to be denied, let's say that Mr. Naumov is from these parts, whether this includes Serbian history from Nin Belov to this day; or if someone here wants to drag us through the history of the Serbs from Maria Teresa to this day; or whether the history of Serbs has been in the past 50 years. Please, we as a political group, a parliamentary club that has the name of the SSJ party and who invites Serbs to unity, remember that, we call on the ambassadors from Vojvodina to explain to us how they, alone, have older schools than we do here in Belgrade, and I don't know the pasture, how the duchy post office older than our Belgrade, and it's a hundred years old. Explain historically who you are and say clearly and loudly who we are. If you deserve the Dukeship, if you deserve it before Vuk Karadzic, feel free to tell us that we too would know who we are. And according to Deretic's history, it takes you quite a number of years. And the gentleman here at the pay phone said that the schools of the duchy and the mail are older than the Serbians, let him deny me. But should we trust Nenada Canka, who declares himself Jaser Arafat Vojvodina, who in the New Sad's general urban plan has requested a drawing of locations for the embassies of all states. (President: Time Mr. Novakovic, I said you have five minutes. Here, I'm done. Mr. Canak, as a symbol of the struggle to achieve an independent state of Vojvodina and as one said yesterday with Taliban mentality, is the man who called Serbia Sodom and Gomorrah.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-23-0.u16457	Mr. Novakovic, I give you a notice under Article 103. Time's up, finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-23-0.u16458	I thank you for your warning. So if Canak is dreaming of Mary Teresa's time, I'm afraid he's not the Serbian Duke of Dobrnjak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-23-0.u16459	The People's Messenger, Sredoj Mihail, has the word [[right on line]]
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-23-0.u16460	I can't really add anything to you, but I repeat again that those facts are true. I will invite you to this celebration of the 250-year-old Serbian school in my village, which I have finished. You called Mr. Naumov. I was honored to be his schoolmate. He will also confirm that our high school celebrates so much. I didn't say that for some reason, but to get people to know the facts, the facts. I wasn't telling history that's being passed down from knee to knee, I was talking about facts. It's a fact, and there's nothing we can do to help, it's just facts.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-23-0.u16461	The People's Messenger Radomir Naumov has the word [[right on line]]
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-23-0.u16462	Dear People's MPs, here I am, thanks to my colleague Novakovic, I got a chance to deny him or deny him. As far as the denial is concerned, I think it's the exact exact information that my dear colleague Sredoje gave me. However, there is only one small change: then, 156 years ago, high school was founded, but German high school. She was not Serbian, she only developed as such later. I mean it, but it doesn't change the things that Mr. Wednesday wanted him to insist on. But I didn't mean to make this a show. Unfortunately, I can't respect all the reasons I've heard here, because I belong to those native Banathons who are indigenous and (beginning from the ancestors) have more than 300 years of tapio on old land. They were never afraid of Serbia, they were always flocking towards Serbia. From that point of view, I think that this way of adopting autonomous or certain rights without restrictions, which Vojvodina, Banat, Srem, and Baka, have, doing so over some order and beyond the expected constitutional changes, is wrong. On the other hand, I also appreciate the opinion of those who believe that we Dukes are something special, that we have historical and other reasons to feel that way, but I also believe that these differences show other parts of our Serbia, are different from Nisli. In that sense, I believe that the DSS's position on the future regionalisation of our country is only correct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-23-0.u16463	The People's Messenger, Sredoje Mihajlov, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-23-0.u16464	I'll finish this around high school, I'll bring you a book tomorrow, but it doesn't matter. One thing is, do you think, gentlemen, that the Serbian Matica was formed by Hungarians or others?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-23-0.u16465	The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-23-0.u16466	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would suggest that the chairman give me a heads-up, not to interrupt me later. I have to point out several facts, which yesterday, due to the inability and relatively short exposure, because of the incredible Rules of Procedure adopted by the National Assembly, Prof. Vojislav Seselj and Tomislav Nikolic did not have the opportunity to tell the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, so I will say something about what is said and spoken today, so I will point to something that is not true, and here it is as a notorious fact. We have heard several times from the representatives of the regime that these are changes that are in line with the positive Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. And then they say, "What's he like?" That's what he's like. That's not true. This constitution, of course, has many shortcomings, but it is like the order that you have completely violated incomparably better than the order that you are building today and the constitutional order that you are trying to make today. Namely, in Article 109. (This is especially for the Vice-President of the National Assembly) it is said that the Republic of Serbia can, by law, entrust the Autonomous Region with certain tasks under its rights and duties and transfer funds to it for these tasks, not to pass a law establishing certain jurisdiction of the Autonomous Province. It's as clear as day. It is something that anyone who has read the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, anyone who is a lawyer, and must be a lawyer and in the parliamentary majority, they must know it. That way someone would have to know how to edit the autonomy of the Vojvodina and how not to. This is about trying to clear the state of Vojvodina, which is something the SRS has against since its founding. I'm just going to say something -- since we all talked about it in principle -- something that wasn't talked about. Why is there talk of nostrification and equivalence of the documents acquired abroad? So it is not the state of the Duke; or is it that someone plans for the Duke to become a state? In Vojvodina, we have branches of the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Office. What are the special centres for pension and disability insurance? Because you have to have original incomes. Will all fiscal duties the northern Serbian province take over on itself, and customs, and taxes, and everything else, as announced by Nenad Canak and other DOS leaders. How's that gonna work? The promoter tells us - no specific budget funds are needed. We were also told by one of the representatives of the government yesterday, and we have here in transitional and final provisions (a reminder of the ones who did not read this, but were mostly prepared from the papers), this is said in Article 66, that the sede balance will be closer to determining the division of funds, rights and obligations in the acquisition of founding rights. It continues to be said: "The means to ensure the achievement of certain competences under this law, in the area where the autonomous province assumes founding rights, will be provided in the budget of the Autonomous province and the budget of the Republic." These are the things that we have to talk about here, and these are things that can't be avoided in any way. Here all the time you've been trying to say, yes, you from the SRS, and each of the speakers from DOS talk like that, you're for one, apparently an extreme point of view, for a unique Serbia, you're against autonomous provinces. Of course, then commend us, you say it's a clear and legal attitude. It is both clear and honest, and correct to voters, of course and legal, and we think legitimate. We mean, if you want to let this kind of political attitude be heard, that he would have an absolute majority in Vojvodina. I remind you once again that the SRS is not only very powerful in Vojvodina, but it has a percentage of the most votes right in Vojvodina because of its views. A completely clean and clear attitude, and that's the right attitude, not attitude -- we're going to move a little bit, we're going to decentralised a little bit. There's no decentralisation here. decentralisation is to give greater rights, powers and prerogatives to municipalities, not to destroy the state. It's not this Serbia, it's not this Vojvodina anymore, it's ours. We think she's all of us, the whole Serbian people. I'd end up now, and I'd talk more in the discussion of details. I'd say more, Madam Chairman, that you lied, but I won't. I'll say you weren't telling the truth. I referred you to the Kidnapped Faces Association yesterday. You said they didn't file the list. We received, with the seal of the Assembly (holding in hand material), from the office, 22 January of these people - Spasic Simo, Bajosevic Slavka, Grujic, Pećinović, Zivković, Acić, Majstorović. So much for how much...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-23-0.u16467	You may have won, but I haven't yet, because that's not the topic...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-23-0.u16468	It's amazing that I get it without you getting it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-23-0.u16469	The People's Messenger has the word, I apologize. The People's Messenger, Gordana Komic, has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-23-0.u16470	The right to replica by recognition - vice-president of the Serbian Parliament; The basis for the replica is - wrong interpretation. With gratitude, of course, to MP Aleksandr Vukic, because I will use these three minutes to read the members of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia concerning Section 6-Territory Organisation, with the subheading - the Autonomous province of Vojvodina and the Autonomous province of Kosovo and Metohija. Article 108: "Autonomic provinces are educated in accordance with the specific national, historical, cultural and other properties of their areas. Citizens in the autonomous province shall exercise their rights on their own and shall fulfil the duties laid down by the Constitution and by law. The territory of the autonomous province is determined by law." Article 109: "Autonomic province across its borders: 1. adopts a programme of economic, scientific, technological, demographic, regional and social development, rural development and villages, in accordance with the plan of development of the Republic of Serbia, and sets out the measures for its implementation; 2. makes budget and final account; 3. makes decisions of general acts, in accordance with the Constitution and the law, which regulates specific issues of interest for citizens in the autonomous province in areas: culture; education; official use of language and letters of nationality; public notice; health and social protection; social care for children; protection and promotion of the environment; urbanism, and in other areas established by law; 4. implements laws, other regulations and general acts of the Republic of Serbia whose enforcement is entrusted to the authorities of the Autonomous Area and rules for their enforcement when they are carried out in the area of their rights and procedures; It also performs others after the Constitution and the law, as well as the Statute of the Autonomous Province; the same Article 109, reads: "The Republic of Serbia can legally entrust the Autonomous province with the performance of certain transactions in the framework of its rights and duties and transfer funds to it for these jobs. The Autonomous Region shall be subject to the revenue laid down by law." Article 110 treats the Statute of the Autonomous Province, Article 111 defines the authorities, and Article 112 says, "If the Autonomous Province Authority, despite the warning of the relevant Republic Authority, does not execute a decision or a general act of the Autonomous Province, the Republic Authority may directly ensure its enforcement. ". Thus, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia defines the territorial position of autonomy. We agree theoretically that there is no question of decentralisation at the state's theoretical level of regulation, but obviously we disagree on the answer to one question: do you want to respect this constitution, the way it is, or won't we? If we wish, we must provide a mechanism, established by procedure, for certain responsibilities of the Vojvodina, which will enable the authorities, which includes both the Assembly and the Executive Council, to use the democratic capacity of this constitution, as it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-23-0.u16471	The word has a folk MP Srda Popovic, followed by Branko Ruzic. National MP Srda Popovic is the last speaker registered from the DOS parliamentary group. The remaining time is 38 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-23-0.u16472	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this may be the historic session of the National Assembly. It requires the adoption of two key laws, which represent an important step towards decentralisation of our country, one of which is called the law on the return of certain powers to the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina or the omnibus, and the other by the law on local self-government. It is not historic just because decentralisation is one of the four fundamental principles of the Democratic Opposition of Serbia programme; a programme that received two-thirds of the citizens' support more than a year ago and then a two-thirds majority of MPs in this parliament, and with it and decentralisation; now we see that things have changed a little; it is historic because decentralisation of the state is a key condition, here someone did not understand what the conditions mean, for entering the Council of Europe and the European Union. It's the government's programme and the Democratic Party's programme. So it's about that kind of condition. Today, therefore, we need to decide on a law that returns to the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina over 200 competencies from 24 areas of social life. In September of the month, I had a call from a friend of mine, who is a forester in a small town near Morovic, who presented me with an unusual problem. He said, "Listen, Srjo, we at the Ministry of Education, in Belgrade, have sent a request for a competition for an English language professor at a school in Višnica. The post office has decided. There's no way we can get an English professor. "The post office has indeed decided. I failed to help him, but then I learned that we live in a country where Germany's street in Belgrade decides on the number of English professors in small schools in Srem and Banat. That nebulosis has made me deal with this issue in a part that is my area, which is the environment, and I'm taking part in agreements on this omnibus law. Not only because I felt my commitment as a member of the DOS and the Democratic Party, but also because I want to remind you of what is true, which is that our country - which, by the way, has received an excellent grade in the world, as the first country in transition in which the social product did not fall in the first year of transition - the increase in social product owes food production. Recalling that food production is precisely something that Vojvodina is known for, as well as reminding that food production requires a healthy environment, not necessarily. Now we're going to look at what jurisdiction in this area is coming back, just so we don't talk about very unusual variations with centers of power anymore. In the case of protection and promotion of the environment, Article 29. (section 14, page 16) The omnibus of the law, it says, "3) is established by the Regional Institute for Nature Protection". Do you think two million Vojvodinas are in no condition to have their own nature protection office? Further: "4) set up a public company for the management of a national park in the territory of an autonomous province". Do you think there should be someone from Belgrade who will run the Fruska Mountain National Park? Or: "5) provides monitoring of environmental factors and empowers professional organisations to carry out these tasks". No monitoring service that reports pollution in the world is centralised like that in Serbia. Whatever city we go to, people ask us -- how is it possible that we should wait seven days for information on pollution? We say this - it's a republican inspector, he has to refer to Belgrade and Belgrade gives him permission to appear on local television, for example. In Panchev, "eat the wolf of the donkey," the polluter slipped through and the people breathed what God had given them. Further: "7) gives consent to the basics and programmes of protection and regulation of construction and agricultural land". Do you really think that Belgrade should give an opinion on the basis of the development of agricultural land in Vojvodina? Is that logical? I'm not, and I'm a Belgrade citizen. Or: "9) conducts administrative oversight in all areas of environmental protection, except in the area of hazardous substances (which is cross-border jurisdiction)... "and take measures to eliminate illegality." It's a very effective thing. We need to decentralised the environmental protection system, which we are doing with this law, with six ecological amendments to the local self-government law, waiting for us. It's fate, it's so in all the countries in the world. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I would now refer to something the predecessors spoke of. In the debate so far, we have not heard so much about the law itself, nor have we heard many objections about which areas of jurisdiction are being returned, from which it may be necessary, and from which it may not be. Perhaps we can hear some of that in the discussion of details. The last part of this session was dominated by stories of power centers. The power centers played a key role in the debate in the principle of this law. Someone said "New Sad works - Belgrade is being built" and then, like, it's not going to be now, but it's going to be "Pancevo works - Novi Sad is being built" and -- where power lies, and -- where the money is being collected, and -- there will be political conflicts of power centres in Belgrade and Novi Sad. Hey, guys. The 21st century has begun. It's been a while since the story of the centers of power. No more Habzburg in Vienna, no more Osmanli in Stambol, this is about the efficient functioning of the state. So quit demagogy, 18th century. Two questions are being asked here. First, whether we follow the world's trend, in which teachers are in schools, directors of libraries and fishing areas long ago local jurisdiction or we're going to preserve the Ottoman system, where the bar is dug and they send seiza to the pasals to regulate things. That's the first question. The second question, do we trust, not in Chanka as a person, but whether we have confidence in the institution that this country has, in particular in this case in 120 MPs of the Regional Assembly, which the neighbours chose in the majority elections, means they know them and if we have any confidence in the common sense of these neighbours, means in the health of the Vojvodina. Are they crazy that they chose these people and if they were chosen whether these people have the ability to decide on something; whether we believe in an institution called the circuit parliament, which this state, whether it likes it or not, has. Our message is clear - the law comes as a key pre-election promise, as a step towards decentralisation, as an important move towards a more efficient and cheaper state, as a step towards the integration of our country into the European Union and the Council of Europe - vote for an omnibus law, vote to regain certain powers of the AP Vojvodina. In the end, Mr. Mihajlov, I would like you to use your right as head of the MP's club and answer me as a Panchevian, how is it possible that you as a Panchevic are afraid of autonomy when I, as a born Belgrade citizen, am not afraid?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-23-0.u16473	The People's Messenger Branko Ruzic has the word, and after him, the People's Messenger Bozidar Vujic. The SPS parliamentary group has 24 minutes and 30 seconds left, and the Serbian Radical Party has 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-23-0.u16474	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, Mrs. Micic, I would like to warn you that you have magically taken away one minute and 30 seconds of time and be assured that we will use it. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the citizens of Serbia need first of all to know that this bill on determining certain competences of the autonomous province leads to deforestation, fragmentation and ultimately the destruction of our country's integrity. All elements related to such a bill are controversial, contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and, most importantly, contrary to the interests of all citizens of our Republic. The first disputed element is the legislator of the law itself, so the Autonomous Region Assembly, which is illegal, does not reflect the will of voters in Vojvodina, since the second round of elections for the AP Vojvodina Assembly was held three days after the October 5th 2000 coup, in the extreme non-democratic and non-regulatory conditions, when there were many verbal threats and physical objections, above all to representatives of the option represented by the Socialist Party of Serbia. Today, autonomial, or separatist and minority so-called "majority" has been installed in Vojvodina. Autochton parties, and all as a fruit of pre-election rotten compromises and combinations made at Saint Stefan, with the help of the current first diplomatic representative of the United States of America in SRJ. It's all within the most comical, but according to the Serbian people, the most tragic political coalition in these areas called DOS. As things stand, one amateur musician liquidated our most significant banks and devastated our domestic banking system, and the other, who imagined Frank Sinatra, wants to liquidate our state as well. This is seen in the reasoning of this legislative proposal, which says that this is only the first stage of concreteising the jurisdiction of the province's autonomous to a new constitution, which will only then regulate the status of the autonomous province in an adequate manner. What does "adequate" mean? Could it be the Duke's Republic, as we heard from Mr. Chanka yesterday, or perhaps something worse. The second disputed element is the unconstitutional character of this bill and, unfortunately, Serbian citizens, it is also a feature of 90% of the proposed laws by the DOS coalition in this one-year period. First of all, this legislative proposal would require that Serbia be virtually abdicated from a large number of its constitutional powers in favour of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina, which is not possible in the current constitutional and legal order. It is not in agreement with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia that a single Republic law sets out certain issues as the competences of an autonomous province, in all eight areas precisely defined by the Constitution, adding 16 more areas that the Constitution simply does not know. It would only be possible for individual republican laws to be governed by only one of eight constitutionally defined areas, and for those laws to be entrusted with the affairs of the legislative jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia to the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina, but no other areas that the Constitution knows. The quasi-proposed law also foresees that the province authorities exercise administrative control over the implementation of republican laws, which is mostly illogical, because according to the Constitution, the regional authorities can only enforce republican laws and that is, if they are entrusted with the work of trust. Also, the legislator foresees some provinceal authorities that the Constitution does not know, such as ombudsman. All this speaks enough about such a law to create chaos in Serbia's legal system and in the worst possible way the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia would be violated. The third disputed element is the perfid and tende-based thesis of the alleged economic threat to Vojvodina. The economic autonomy of the actions of the same state has no place in the democratic state and market economy, which the DOS coalition is called upon, because, above all, economic sovereignty is an integral and inseparable part of the country's overall sovereignty, and the state is, of course, Serbia. Also, it is clear that companies in the market economy should have the same rights and the same conditions for not all of the country's market. There is a lot of abuse in the public thesis that Vojvodina has offered much more than it has been returning through the projected amounts of the AP Vojvodina budget. However, the thesis is simply not true and creates a distorted picture of the people of Vojvodina. The amounts of projected rural budgets have been modest, but therefore the Republic's resolute ministries have designed and purposely spent far more resources from the work of their responsibilities in full for the whole of the Republic, and therefore for the needs of the people of Vojvodina. It seems to me, however, that such a non-supervised, anti-state and anti-national bill was found before the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia as a result of the political trade of DOS or the Democratic Party with the separatist duchy parties, all for the sake of preserving the naked authority, without considering the most devastating consequences such law in its application can bring. The role of the Democratic Party of Serbia, as so far, is marginal in this situation, as so far they have only shown very good ignorance and political impotence regarding resolving the issue of vitals per state of Serbia. I would honestly like to be wrong about these observations, but once it approaches the vote on this bill, everything will be best shown. The Socialists will, of course, vote against this law, because its application would mean an introduction to the definitive destruction and fragmentation of the Republic of Serbia, contrary to the interests of Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-23-0.u16475	The word is by MP Dejan Mihajlov, using the right of replication to present MP Srdja Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-23-0.u16476	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am sorry that Mr Popovic has come out, and I would like him to hear what I am about to say to him. I'm not afraid of autonomy, of course. On the contrary, I advocate autonomy, advocate regionalisation and advocate strong local self-government, but I fear an offered centralisation called autonomy, offered to move the centre of power from Belgrade to Novi Sad. I'm afraid of trouble for the citizens of Panchev, that's true. I'm afraid of autonomy that, under the pretext, was autonomy and that, through Panchev's health, built everything but Panchev. Panchevo is an industrial centre that has a larger industrial product than all of Montenegro; by 1989 26% of the Vojvodina industrial product was produced in Pancheva and this harmful chemical industry. Panchevo has no health organizations that can wash away the diseases that occur in Pancheva, precisely because Panchevo is an industrial center. Panchevo doesn't have a infrastructure that can wash out what's going on in Panchev. It's just that kind of autonomy I'm afraid of. I'm afraid those closer to Novi Sad will have more money and better heat, and I'm afraid those who are on the edge of the Vojvodina, who are on the border, will be left without that money. We in Panchev know what it's like. I'd invite some of them to come and see what kind of hospital Pancheva is, what kind of health center he is. Come see what schools and streets are like. That's the kind of autonomy we don't want. We want true autonomy, where the money will stay where it comes from and where it is needed, because the Pancians need to be treated, the Pancian children should go on winters and summers at the expense of those who poison them. It's something we should be dealing with. We don't have to deal with it, and the government shouldn't talk about pollution in Serbia. I think everyone knows that. The government needs to work on the fact that the pollution is gone. We need laws that will prevent there from further pollution in Serbia and that dirty technologies, under foreign investment, enter Serbia. That's what we need to prevent from doing this, and don't talk about autonomy for a change in the center, because that's not true autonomy.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-23-0.u16477	The People's Messenger Božidar Vujic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of Zivanko Radovanchev. The remaining time of the SRS parliamentary group is 10 minutes, and the SPS parliamentary groups 18 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-23-0.u16478	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today's law, and you called it "transparently" an omnibus, about determining jurisdiction, has both historical and fateful importance. It will remain remembered in the history of Serbian parliamentism that this session is historic, as the Serbian Parliament has never degraded Serbia so far. It will remain remembered that this session has a fateful character, as it is a heavy and heavy responsibility for all MPs to make a decision today of fate for the citizens of Serbia and for our country. As the People's MP of the Serbian Radical Party, I can even understand that part of the MPs are neither tang nor interested and that they will only vote on the basis of party discipline. I also understand the MPs of the Sandzak Party, that this is their chance for the domino effect, first the Vojvodina, and then them. What interests me very much is how New Serbia's MPs will vote, because strange coincidences are now starting to build a tobacco factory in Cačka. Also, I'd like to know how the DSS MPs will vote. The media says they'll be against it, they'll be held back, but let's wait for the vote. Their abstention only contributes to the creation of quorum, creating conditions for the law to pass. As an MP for the Serbian Radical Party, I will vote against it. I will vote against the Serbian Radical Party programme, because of its ideas and principles. I will vote against the progeny, who will remember me for whether or not I was for Serbia. I will vote against and because of my ancestors, because I am an antique, more than 400 years old, from Vojvodina, and historically and genetically remember their order is attached to the queen of Serbia. It was shown on November 25th 1918 at the Grand National Assembly in Novi Sad, when Banat, Baka, and Baranja, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, decided to join Serbia, and so did the Srema Assembly, and thus they built their specificity there, and added their speciality to Serbia. The people's will was preserved in 1988, when it remained in Serbia, after the shift of the captivated autonomous government of Vojvodina. And what this is now, rather than the intention of Cank's black shirts to get Vojvodina out of Serbia. Separatism, secession, separation, the creation of new centres of power, is this law; and nothing else, nothing less; and as a Serbian radical, I therefore vote against. It's no different; why don't you wait for the new constitution to be announced if it's going to be better at all. We are witnessing that the constitution is announced either by the official authorities or by expert NGOs. Both adopt the standards and normatives of the European Community on regionalisation. But they are in a hurry, they have no patience, they are moving out of the queen of Serbia. The omnibus law is in fact being blackmailed by 19 members of the duchy parties to all MPs, according to the Republika Srpska Assembly. It's not an omnibus, it's a "minibus" to which the MPs in question move towards the destruction of the Panchea and the bridge at Beska. This minibus is a clear announcement that a legal basis is being created, legal standards for secession, for breaking up, for decommissioning, for decommissioning Serbia's single state, and therefore unconstitutional, even puts it above the existing constitution, especially members 72 and 119. Therefore, as a Serbian radical, I will vote against because I know that for this and for what you are doing today you have not received votes and it was not the electoral will of the people of Vojvodina, and therefore the inhabitants of all Serbia. This session is historic because "transparently" will show who is faith and who is unfaithful. The Serbian people can forgive, but the Serbian people remember. From God’s Word until January 25, 1942, in Shayak, Novi Sad and other places of Vojvodina and Serbs, Jews and Roma were thrown under ice. Last January, at this very time, both the Serbian people and Serbia lost the government, but they got you, they got DOS. This January, again from St John to St Sava, Serbs from Vojvodina will lose Serbia. This session is fateful and therefore, gentlemen of Parliament, mind to the head. The Law on Local Self-Government gives municipalities broad powers, even more than it gives them autonomy, all in terms and in order to decentralisation. Then why this omnibus?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-23-0.u16479	The People's MP Zivanko Radovanchev has the word, followed by MP Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-23-0.u16480	Dear Presidency, members of the Government, honourable Members of Parliament, I would like, within this very limited time that I have at my disposal, to announce a few thoughts on the draft law on the determination of certain competences of the Autonomous Province and on its behalf. First, just from the point of view of elementary pragmatism, the question is how comprehensive it is to pass a legal act governing the jurisdiction of the province at the moment when the draft new constitution of the Republic of Serbia is presented to the professional and general public. Such an inversion in procedure and order is unreasonable, at the very least, since the jurisdiction of the province is derived from the country's constitution, not vice versa. This paradox suggests that there is no agreement in DOS regarding the concept, content and time of adoption of the new constitution, and that the autonomous parties are in a hurry to provide as much authority as possible, based on the existing Constitution as possible. For the autonomous parties in Vojvodina, these rights and responsibilities of the province, which are derived from the existing Constitution, which we must admit so far, have not been fully realised -- due to specific circumstances in which our country has been in the last ten and more years: isolation, blockade, aggression, problems in Kosovo and Metohija -- is only the first step towards establishing full autonomy on the basis of the 1974 Constitution. The most extreme among them see Vojvodina as a republic in some federal Serbia, with the primary features of the state, i.e. with legislative, executive and judicial authority, and even more so, as an independent state, which will then, by its own choice, be involved in international integration processes. As a member of the SPS, I fully share our party's view that the province's body of rights and competencies has been adopted by the current Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the measure to meet the specific needs and demands of Vojvodina, which enables its optimal and coherent development in the composition of the Republic of Serbia. The Vojvodina is no longer what it used to be. The ethnic composition of the population changed significantly after two major colonizations after World War I and II and continued economic and other migrations from passive regions towards Vojvodina. So Vojvodina today is a mixed composition of the population originating in all Serbian countries, which has formed as a monolithic entity with a strong state-of-the-art idea in the interstitisation of different cultures and customs with Serbian cultural and historical identity. Its side is every fragmentation of the state, which it carries as its own in all its inseparable parts. Therefore, the story of some god-awful duchy mentality, significantly different from the mentality of our countrymen in other Serbian regions, and taken as one of the reasons for the autonomy of the Vojvodina, is deprived of the true foundation or at least problematic. Should it be reminded, for example, that Serbs in Southeastern Banat are more and more related to the dialect, with Serbs from the right bank of the Danube than with the Bacvans and the Sremites. Will anyone notice a significant difference between Sremac and Bacvan? Who will finally separate Zemun and Panchevo from Belgrade, when they are, in all, indivisible. At a time when the whole world is integrated into global systems and programmes, we are facing self-invited leaders who want to create princesses in which uncircumcised masters would be, in order to satisfy their own owning vanity. In the proposed legislation, the solutions for agriculture have nothing to do with economic, market logic and at least with the agrarian policy of Europe, in which all institutions want to enter and become a member of the European Economic Community. In Europe, agriculture is integrated and united to exploit all the potential and comparative benefits of a larger number of countries. With this proposal, the omnibus law continues to deplete and tear up Serbia's agrarian policy and transfer certain responsibilities to the AP Vojvodina without funds and capital. By adopting this law to our agriculture, and the one in the AP Vojvodina and the one in the rest of the Republic of Serbia, we will make it less competitive, and institutions in the fields of science, selection, water economy, development and others even more inefficient than they are today. I am asking myself and all of you whether this omnibus law contributes to the cultural adaptation of the Republic of Serbia to the standards of European Union countries. In the end, by accepting this law and its practical application, we will come up with questions, what the citizens of Vojvodina have received by this law, and what the overall Serbia has solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-23-0.u16481	The word is made by MP Ljubomir Kragovic, and then by MP Vladimir Garčević. You have four and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-23-0.u16482	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will begin my opinion on the proposal (omnibus) of the law with a sentence that the Serbian people sang: The Great Ones, their damned souls, cut the empire apart. Sometimes the cause of division was Osmania, and today this policy is being implemented by DOS mania. He comes to us from the MPs of Tito's pioneer with a scarf around his neck, only it wasn't red, which seems to be the primary goal of preserving the NOR's fluid, and he said: this bill is an agreement between the Executive Council and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The whole bill is a trade in the Executive Council of Vojvodina and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Then why did the government submit 30 amendments? Then he said, "Take it or leave it, without any amendments, which is an inappropriate threat to the messengers of the people in the people's congregation. Then regretting the 1974 Constitution and finally - the Republic of Vojvodina as a federal unit. Then the prime minister addressed us in his own style, through some alleged democracy, decentralisation, began to defend this bill, Negos said: Janko defends the dead Branislav, which defends him when he does not defend him. But he didn't tell us that he was being blackmailed and that the narrow majority in this House would go on a grant. It is better, Mr Djindjic, to have the crisis of parliament, the crisis of the government of the Republic of Serbia, come to a new election than to be subjected to the pressures of Vojvodina separatists and autonomists. We're all into autonomy. No, Mr. Prime Minister. I'm against autonomy, Serbian radicals are not for autonomy. They are not for the 1974 Constitution, because it is a communist creation that has cost the Serbian people dearly, and today we are paying that price. It was this 1974 constitution that was devastating for Serbs and Serbia, for Kosovo and Metohija. Let's remember how it started in Kosovo and Metohija, when the autonomouss raped themselves. Similarly today, with similar passwords, such as Vojvodina works, Serbia is being built; as if Vojvodina is not in Serbia, as if on another continent. This is a proposal to create a new centre of power, to divide power, not to fight for a better life for the citizens of Vojvodina. What should Serbia be, what should be the power in this Serbia? It should be on two levels. One is at the level of local self-government and one is at the level of the Republic of Serbia. Everything else, ladies and gentlemen, is too high. The Serbs don't have 50 million to have five or six republics, so they have five or six state appliances. A single state apparatus is enough, not duplication or, God forbid, five-six bureaucratic apparatus, which this Serbia needs to pay and feed. One Serbia, one government, and everything else is too high and unnecessary for Serbia. It is said that the adoption of this law is the fulfilment of conditions for the European Union. The European Union has its own password without borders, and in Serbia they would like to limit their territories, which would be uncut. Since, ladies and gentlemen, this proposal is counter-constitutional against the 25 laws passed in this House, blackmailing, commercial, threatening autonomous and destroying Serbia's unity, we propose that we vote against this bill. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to inform you that today is the funeral of a prominent member of the SRS of Nebojko Nikolic, a former market inspector in Presevo. Nebojsa Nikolic lived with his family in Presevo and was fired from the DOS government about 10 days ago. The head of the district is a member of the DHSS, on several occasions calling and offering to resign to the SRS to get him back to work. Since he didn't agree to it, and harassed and desperate for lost work, his heart has broken, and that's just another proof of how the centres of power behave when it comes to those Serbs who don't think the same thing DOS-mania thinks. This is an example of Covic exercising his power in the territory of southern Serbia. Something similar works in the areas of Kosovo and Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-23-0.u16483	Time and theme.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-23-0.u16484	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-23-0.u16485	The People's MP Vladimir Garčević has the word, and after him, the MP Radojko Petrovic. The total time of the SPS parliamentary group is 13 minutes. The others used their time.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-23-0.u16486	The respected presidency, respected fellow MPs, seems to be politically agreeing to draw the Serb people into divisions, into confrontations, rather than building a unity of the Serb people. They say the Vojvodina Assembly has the right to propose. The Vojvodina Assembly was elected legally, not legitimately. On the other hand, it does not express the population of Vojvodina, their wishes, and I will now say, 30% of the first-round electoral body voted for the SPS. In the second, you brought in torture, threats, abuse of the electoral body. If we take the other parties, Radical, let's take all the other parties that aren't in parliament right now, we can't say they have the right to propose and say the Dukes want it. They want DOS forces. Behind all this, we see that he wants to convey something of power and satisfy the compromise between Prime Minister Djindjic and the president of the Vojvodina Assembly. We fought for Vojvodina never to be outside Serbia. If we want to decentralize, return the original rights to the municipalities, which you are now also advocating as decentralisation, so make the price of the state, make the price of the municipal administration, and then let the rest of the income remain for the citizens. Since 1974 there has been centralism in Vojvodina, it has been decided in one centre of power and the citizens of Vojvodina have then seen that this does not lead anywhere, and it has led to the separation of Vojvodina, the addition of certain parts, perhaps Croatia, or the separation and accession of Hungary. There is no different picture, because there is a Berisavljevic at the head of certain forces and a society from that furniture that spent all their time at a hotel in Sremska Mitrovica. The people of Vojvodina want to democratisation, the citizens of Vojvodina want to hear this. Let five companies from Sremska Mitrovica, which is privatised by Mr Djindjic and where the money goes to Belgrade, leave money in Sremska Mitrovica, so that citizens from Sremska Mitrovica can live and that will be decentralisation. No money to a certain group of people, and you choose citizens, we offer you colorful lies. Decentralization to leave money, to leave what every citizen needs, and then we can believe in decentralisation. We can't support this, and the forces that stand for a single Serbia are not so small in Vojvodina either, but they are for knowing what it costs and I think it will be done in the next period.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-23-0.u16487	The word is by MP Radojko Petric, followed by MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-23-0.u16488	The respected presidency, honourable MPs, this law, which is officially called the law on determining certain jurisdiction of the autonomous province, has been named the second -- the omnibus law of Vojvodina. As the legislator explains the term of autonomy in this law, referring to Vujaklia's lexicon, so do I here cite the interpretation of the same author that the term omnibus etemological means - for everyone, everyone, or, as Vujaklia further states in the case of public traffic - a spacious passenger car with multiple seats: bus. Feel free to say, it's all about the law of all things. It's really the law of all things when it changes a few dozen laws. In practice, this law should also apply, and dozens of specific laws that are being amended. It has already been suggested that if this law is passed, it has multiplely violated the country's legal system. With all due respect that indeed certain solutions to the position of the autonomous province from the now existing Constitution since 1990 have not been implemented in practice, the Constitution and certain laws and Serbia-SRJ should not now be violated. Certain constitutional solutions did not come to life because of known harsh events erupting in our area, starting with the breaking of the Federative Republic of Yugoslavia to NATO's destruction of Serbia. In such conditions, issues of state and national interest had an advantage over issues of autonomy and the province. Otherwise, the SPS felt and now it is the view that the province should have autonomy, that it should be in line with the Constitution of Serbia and Vojvodina and the constitutional act, i.e. with her statute. The campaign that has been conducted in public has inevitably led to the conclusion that this law is being adopted in an extortion. In the created atmosphere, a good part of Serbia's citizens wonders what it all means: whether it is really a matter of transferring to autonomous provinces and constitutional powers: whether it is a return to the 1974 constitution, whether it is a real decentralisation of government or whether it is a potential disintegration of Serbia. In Vojvodina, it was relatively easy to get support from a large number of citizens through the story of money flows. In terms of general poverty, the insinuation that the money from Vojvodina is leaving Belgrade and if it hadn't been for that they would have lived much better, with a number of citizens, it has overshadowed all other issues. It is no wonder now that a small number of Vojvodina citizens believe that Vojvodina should be a republic or even independent, and this is officially advocated by individual parties, as we heard yesterday in this assembly. It's almost not about decentralisation of government in the autonomous province. The people of Vojvodina will not get anything from replacing Serbia's centralised system with a centralised system of Vojvodina. Only people would change, and the principle would remain the same. Why is it not said that the centralisation of the government at the level of the autonomous province will be avoided through the formation of subregion and the transfer of part of the government to them? Isn't it logical to talk about the Subregion of Back, Srem and Banat? There's a lot of real assumptions about that. In order to achieve the centralisation of the government, and that of the European type, Serbia's constitutional reconstruction is our inevitableness. The appropriate regionalisation is also in great shape. In this context, Vojvodina will find its place, and there remains a wide range of issues that can and should be regulated. This alone must in no way be jeopardised or challenged by the territorial integrity or sovereignty of Serbia. When everything is said in mind, then it is indeed necessary to withdraw this bill and wait for the adoption of the new constitution, which will be properly arranged by the Statute of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-23-0.u16489	The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic, followed by MP Dragan Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-23-0.u16490	Dear Presidency, fellow MPs, we have received another bill from DOS, and this time on determining the jurisdiction of the autonomous province, which for several reasons how, we think the Socialists, is not good and the Assembly should not accept it. We, the Socialists, believe that the real intentions of this law, i.e. the proposing - of the Assembly of the province of Vojvodina and DOS - are that the Republic of Serbia continues to be weakened, tiny and disintegrated. With this bill, the autonomous province does not retain itself in the affairs that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia determines as original, but seeks to push the Republic of Serbia, replace in the affairs for which only Serbia is responsible, but also to take over some of the federal affairs. The story of the province's jurisdiction began several years ago through the story of the economic exploitation of Vojvodina by Serbia, which, of course, has never been concreted and proven because it does not exist, and ends through this bill that weakens Serbia, and Vojvodina is moving away from the country's headquarters. As empty as this financial story has been, the best way to confirm the bill itself. It does not mention the issue of the autonomous province's budget at all, the original revenues from the budget, the autonomous provinces are not visible, original powers are financed which cannot be seen or balanced from the bill. You can't even see the scale of the trust fund. The bill is bad because it was not done in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It is not legal to make a law such as this bill, which treats 24 areas (three times as much as the Constitution has established) and many other areas of which the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia does not speak, which determines the jurisdiction of the Autonomous province. That is why this bill is really a big deal, because it contains everything and everything, and it certainly represents one unique in Serbia's legal system, a unique one that will be considered negative. The bill is bad because it contains... I'm sorry, if you could just calm the MPs down a little bit... (President: I ask the People's MPs that, respecting their own Rules of Procedure, they pay attention to the speaker. )......................................................................................................... A number of members who are contrary to the existing laws of the Republic of Serbia or who do not comply with the Constitution of Serbia, such as Members: 17, 22, 24! etc. It is paradoxical, but true, that the autonomous province gives consent to the tasks in the jurisdiction of the Republic. The bill is also bad because it treats areas not listed in the Constitution of Serbia as areas of the province's normative jurisdiction, but areas within the jurisdiction of the federal state. The bill is bad because in many members, such as 5, 9, 14, 15, 16, 18, and others, determines the jurisdiction of an autonomous province that does not belong to it, which is a matter of administrative oversight and at all control over the application of the republican laws in the areas covered by this law. The right to exercise administrative control over the enforcement of the republic's laws has only the Republic of Serbia and not an autonomous province, because these are not its laws. The bill is bad because it prescribes jurisdiction for an autonomous province. tasks that only the State can perform, such as certain issues in the area of the judicial system. The bill is also bad, because it establishes new bodies of an autonomous province that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia does not know, nor states them in Article 111. The Constitution. It's about the civil defender. This and other negative solutions containing the bill on determining the jurisdiction of the autonomous province, if this law is adopted, will certainly produce inequality among the citizens of Vojvodina and Serbia in the exercise of the constitution of guaranteed rights. Finally, when you look at the whole of this law, you ask the question of true intentions. We think the promoter defined them in footnote on page 29. When he explains the appearance of autonomy. The promoter reveals his intentions and true goal, knowingly ignoring the world's experiences and understanding of the concept of autonomy. For all these reasons, we, the Socialists, will be against the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-23-0.u16491	The word is made by MP Dragan Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-23-0.u16492	Dear Members of the People's Parliament, since we are entitled to minutes in this democracy, I will only draw attention to two things. First and foremost thing - what do you want with this law? This law wants absolute concentration of power through the economy and through resources. I'm asking a question -- when someone wanted a comprehensive function, why didn't they also pull the power industry, which is one of the very important branches? There's no electricity in there. Why didn't he pull the coals, Kolubar? That's what we're going to get out of here, and we're only going to bring out those resources that we have. We won't let you near them at all. And the other thing, perhaps the most important thing -- it has been here for a long time that Serbs are asking Serbs for autonomy and Serbs are being threatened. It's just, there's no way that Serbs are holding rallys on Novi Sad looking for autonomy from Serbs and Serbs. Obviously, this is a tendency towards recession, separatism, and who knows what tendencies. For these reasons, this law is extremely dangerous. That's why we propose, and we invite all of you MPs here not to vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-23-0.u16493	This ended the discussion of the people's deputies who were reported. Do any of the representatives, or the president of the parliamentary groups, want a word? He has the word Mr. Borislav Pelevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-23-0.u16494	Dear citizens of Serbia, the Honorable Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Soviet Union believes that Vojvodina is large enough, rich enough and beautiful enough to live in it with the full equal majority of the Serb people and all 25 ethnic communities, or national minorities; that we live in peace, tolerance, cherishing all the differences we possess, because these differences should bring us together, and never separate us. We are proud that our spokesman in Temerin, for example, Hungary, is a spokesman for our party in Novi Sad Slovakia, which our presidents on many municipal committees in Vojvodina are married to Hungarians. It is the pride of our party and we stand for it, and we will also stand for it in the future, but we are not in favour of making such solutions, which do not lead to the true return of the autonomy of Vojvodina, which is under the influence of even the representatives of the promoters, here it is, in fact, the obstruction of the call of the independent Republic of Vojvodina. That is true, and I am sure that most MPs who will vote today for the adoption of this law also think as I do, but because of party discipline and for the reason of the survival of the Serbian government will vote for the adoption of such a law and against their will. Even one DOS MP said that yesterday about this pay phone. Today, this session, unfortunately, is not attended by the legislators of this law. There's no Mr. Nenad Chank, and he'd have to be here today. But it only shows how interested he is in the adoption of this law, because he is interested in, in fact, in the creation of the Republic of Vojvodina, which is also drawn in the programme of his party - the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina. It was confirmed yesterday by an MP from the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina, that they are, in fact, in favour of the Republic of Vojvodina. Well, let me repeat yesterday's question-- can we trust such a man, as the legislator of the law on the return of jurisdiction to the AP Vojvodina? It is necessary to restore the powers that have been denied to the Vojvodina, which are prescribed by the 1990 Constitution, but should not be restored to the competences set out in the 1974 Constitution. That's actually what this is about. Risking being rude, because I call upon a man who is not with us, but also aware of the importance of today's session and the necessity of his presence, I will still allow myself to ask him and the other legislators of this law a few questions. Is the scarf worn by Mr. Nenad Canak a recent sign that he wants to look up to Jaser Arafat and represent himself as the leader of a nation in Vojvodina, who wants an independent state, because that's exactly what Jaser Arafat is doing; or might it be solidarity and respect for another province leader in the southern Serbian province, Ibrahim Rugova, who also wears a scarf around his neck? There's a good example of reputation, certainly, if it's Ibrahim Rugova. Did he also file for why he submitted, and did he apply for urban conditions for the construction of foreign embassies in Kamenica near Novi Sad? Does this tell you that his ambition is not autonomy, but a republic, and it's an independent republic of the Vojvodina? Did the president of the Croatian Parliament discover the monument to a Serbian duke in Croatia - not; and Nenad Canak, as president of the Vojvodina Assembly, discovered the monument of Ban Jelačić's tablet on Petrovaradin. Has a Croatian official apologized to the Serbian people for killing Serbs and banishing Serbs from Croatia, especially after "Bliss" and "Storms"; and he apologized to the Croatian people as the president of the Vovjodine Assembly, without obtaining consent to that from anyone in Serbia. What is, again, the most indicative of all, is that the League of Social Democrats and Nenad Canak personally advocate the creation of the Republic of Vojvodina, because the Social Democracy League of Serbia says Serbia has to tear itself apart into six republics, and that: Vojvodina, Belgrade with the environment, Southeast Serbia, Shumadi, Sandzak, that is, the Raška area as we say, and Kosovo, and we say Kosovo and Metohija. This is the Social Democrats League programme, and this is the main goal of Mr. Nenada Chanka, who is the main promoter of this. And now a question for all promoters - why, gentlemen, if you want autonomy, your parties create a draft constitution of the Vojvodina, when you know well that the constitution is the basic act of the Republic and the statute is the basic act of the province? So you're not even making constitutional law, you're building a draft constitution, which will say you're only interested in the republic. We won't vote for this law for four reasons. The first is that contrary to the 24 current positive laws currently in force in Serbia. Second, because it is opposed to members 108 and 109. Serbia's constitution on competencies, as the bill envisions much more jurisdiction than it formulates, in particular, Article 109. The Constitution of Serbia. This law also represents the cornerstone of the establishment of the future Republic of Vojvodina, and I fear that all those who vote for sleep tonight will be very badly, because you will have a historic responsibility to replace the calls of a new republic. Vojvodina's autonomy, according to the Serbian Unity Party, should be restored. So, we're for restoring autonomy. Autonomy -- yes, but the republic -- not ever. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-23-0.u16495	The word is made by MP Stevan G. Guduric as representative of the SPS parliamentary group, followed by MP Bojan Kostreš, president of the DOS- League parliamentary group Social Democrats Vojvodina and the League for the Shumadi.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-23-0.u16496	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the end of this discussion in principle we should say that the bill is an act of law, but also of the illegal Assembly of Vojvodina, because you must remember that on October 8, 2000, it was still your "October Revolution" and there were no conditions for regular elections, because there was no 48 seconds of silence, not 48 hours of pre-election silence. So don't talk about how it's all right. If you think it's right, let him who's in charge call the elections in Vojvodina, and he'll soon find out what's right and what has the legitimacy to talk about the Vojvodina. Canak, Isaac and Kasa at least. Because Mr. Kasa when he talks about Belgrade, then he talks about a unique Serbia; when he talks in Novi Sad, he talks about the autonomy of Vojvodina; and only a very different story in the north of Bačka, in nine municipalities, which strongly tend to Orban's statement that Vojvodina is Hungarian historical space. So he's the only one with a real interest in proposing a law like this, with his own sopranos, who have no chance and will be in the first election -- history, as you can say about others. Because if Mr. Canak can tell us where our money is, he could ask a coalition partner if our Serbs are in Hungary; all for some reciprocity, and there were as many of us here. It's just, we're missing something out there. I don't know why, so let the coalition partners first answer that question, and most of you know the answer. If we talk about how someone is constantly threatened and how someone has no money, here or there, I will tell you that I am old enough, even when our money was in Novi Sad, as in Belgrade, it was our destiny. You couldn't get them. We're the only ones from Beocin, because the travel costs are lower, since it's 15 kilometers to Novi Sad and 100 miles to Belgrade and change... If that's any good, thank you very much, we don't need that benefit. Because, if we are talking about money and this law, education says what autonomy will do in national minorities, and then you, gentlemen, could ask in the coalition why the schooling of Serbian children born in Hungary on the Serbian salary of Belgrade, the education of Hungarian children in Serbia, who are born in Serbia, is paying Belgrade again, if we say all the money is now in Belgrade. I've already explained the batting example once here and no one has found it appropriate to say otherwise, because it can't be different, because it's true. Because I don't see that the people of Vojvodina are going to get something by allowing the centre to move money and decision-making from Belgrade to Novi Sad. I didn't, gentlemen of the DOS, understand your pre-election promises -- that decentralisation will be from Beogad to Novi Sad. I came from Beocin, and I understood that decentralisation would be from Belgrade to Beocin; and I didn't understand you, gentlemen of this military coalition or interest group, when there was a talk here about the Privatisation Act, that you stood up for Vojvodina in particular. Because if you're going to say that 50% of it is incorporated into the Privatisation Act as a interest of Vojvodina, then it's a shame that I count myself with you as a Duke, if that's what you're up to. It wasn't any more. There's a lot of you that could have had a significant impact on the vote on that law, and you didn't ask for something for Vojvodina, even Mr. Djukic was very anxious on the tender commission, so he asked Beocina to share those 50%, and he didn't ask anyone else. That only happened later. If we're talking about what needs to be gained in autonomy, if we're going to get Isaac's autonomy, Chanka and Kasa, then thank you very much, we're not interested at all. Because it's the least of everyone's interests, including Hungarians in Vojvodina, who, like, represent Mr. Kasa. Because maybe we'll just get a multiplication of the administration, because now we have the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, the Republic of Serbia, and we'll have an autonomous province that's going to cost, so we have a district that costs, so then you DOS wise men have introduced some more contact to Serbia, which costs again, and probably costs no one but the citizens of Serbia. How many levels of decision-making goes, and who do you think pays? One more thing, it's usually said that some things are guaranteed by six months and some twelve months, which means you've expired six and twelve months in power and you can't pass on your stupidity to the responsibility of the former regime.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-23-0.u16497	Mr. Guduric, I give you a warning of insult under Article 103. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-23-0.u16498	And for what?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-23-0.u16499	Because you used offensive expressions.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-23-0.u16500	What insults?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-23-0.u16501	That's bullshit. Second warning, Mr. Guduric. You insulted me personally.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-23-0.u16502	There is no escape for eight thousand at all, and that is just another piece of evidence of how democratically we have met with the president of the Serbian Parliament, because if we were to gather what we have been for these days, since she is unfortunately who she is,... Then we'd get to the scary numbers...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-23-0.u16503	The theme, Mr. Guduric.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-23-0.u16504	It's all about the subject. When you give a warning, I guess it's a warning, too, if I understand myself.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-23-0.u16505	It's not a subject, it's my authority under Article 97(2). Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-23-0.u16506	Because we can also say that this law is a commercial law. Now, is he the commercial law between Mr. Djindjic and Mr. Chanko and the company, or is it the determination of an advance against those with whom someone had arranged something before it passed, about that path, time will show, and time has always been the best judge. So autonomy isn't, as some here have said, simply transferring the center of power and money from one place to another. Autonomy is something else, and that's something else in this law, which you suggested, that doesn't stand at all. The law states, among other things, that this law is a proposal for a harmonised position by the government and the Executive Council of Vojvodina. As far as this is concerned, the government's amendment to the 70 members of the 30 pieces speaks. Although you've agreed, but it'll probably be very soon when we talk over the taster and determine whether the law goes in principle or not, to show what's going on. Finally, to thank Mrs. Micic for her very easy hands, and I would not comment on other things.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-23-0.u16507	I give my word to MP Bojan Kostreš, as representative of the Social Democrats League Group of the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina and the League for the Shumadi. Is anyone else answering for a word from the representatives of the parliamentary groups? Mr. Zeljo Huric. Is anyone else answering for a word from the representatives of the parliamentary groups? Mr. Marko Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-23-0.u16508	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the Social Democrats League Group of the League and the League for the Shumadi League will vote in favour of the omnibus law. Not because we believe he is good for Vojvodina, but because we are sure that he is necessary for Serbia. By passing this law, Serbia will begin to respect its own constitutionality, and this parliament will begin to respect the Republic Constitution. With this bill, we will arrange more than 20 areas of social life, make some new solutions. This law will also make different solutions in 30 republican laws. It is precisely the task and the basic goal of the omnibus, to put off its ten-year legislative activity of the previous regime, which has tried to further limit the constitutional framework of Vojvodina autonomy and the constitutional position of Vojvodina in general. For this reason, since we advocate respect for the Constitution, and in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Vojvodina as an autonomous province exists, we advocate that this law restores its constitutional authority. The second reason to vote for this law is because this law returns to parliamentary life and talks about Vojvodina, the idea of Vojvodina. With this law, the Serbian Parliament accepts the necessity and importance of talks on the responsibilities of Vojvodina, which have been taken away. We hope that by adopting this law, the Serbian Parliament will accept the argument that the relationship between the previous regime and Vojvodina was wrong and wrong. Also, another important reason why this law should be passed is that the Serbian Parliament will also show its readiness, its ability to accept talks on all issues from Serbia's political and social life, whether these issues are painful for this assembly or not. By making these decisions, Serbia shows, this assembly shows that it is capable of giving answers, and by giving answers we are in fact showing that we are ready to solve problems. In Vojvodina, we don't care at all that the duchy question in Serbia's public and social life becomes a duchy problem, because it will be no good for both Vojvodina and Serbia. By passing this law, the Vojvodina will not get what the citizens of the Vojvodina expect will be given by this omnibus law. The dukes will not live better, the Duke's standard will not rise and we will not be closer to Europe. This law has not resolved two basic issues, a question of duchy property and a question of duchy money, but whatever the case, we urge to vote for this law, because this is the start of resolving the Vojvodina issue. In the end, I want to say that this is a small step for Vojvodina, but a big step for Serbia and therefore I ask all MPs in this National Assembly, who care about Serbia, to vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-23-0.u16509	The word is from MP Zeljo Huric, representative of the parliamentary group Reformists Vojvodina and Sandzak Democratic Party, followed by Mr Marko Petrovic, president of the New Serbia's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-23-0.u16510	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, I am taking advantage of the opportunity to welcome our guests, our distinguished "response" who are above us and, otherwise, to them is a place to be above us. I came out here to point out once again the seriousness of this moment, for a moment that is very similar to the moment that this Parliament was in the late 1990s, and to invite you to do what is right for people, which is that our mind overcomes our desires and our anger. I mean the wishes of those who appear primarily for the reason that this law doesn't go away and their anger because this law is on the agenda at all. I was surprised that in some concepts of statehood or an autonomous province of Serbia, it was even with the concept of fetish. In this sense, I am particularly disappointed with some discussions, which were more like schizophrenic in their content or went to the edge of political perversion. So I call you once again, dear colleagues, to reason and to be aware of the moment we are in.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-23-0.u16511	The word is from MP Marko Petrovic, representative of the New Serbia parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-23-0.u16512	Dear colleagues, I would really like to ask you that at this moment, when we are at the first half of this law, I hope not the end of the game, let me also tell you the political position of the New Serbia parliamentary group in relation to this omnibus law, which was submitted by the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina. We didn't participate in the discussion on purpose yesterday, but that's why here in the hallway we made statements that put our political stance on the law. Therefore, our political position is clear: both sides of this divided assembly are right. However, let me tell you one thing, fellow MPs, the absolute public has no right to judge as it has judged, and this is next - that the passage of this law depends on eight New Serbia MPs. It is a shame for this assembly, for the one who passed this law, and that is the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, and also for the government, which has given 30 amendments to this law, so it does not recognise the law in its original form. Mr. Canak, who was from this pay phone yesterday, raising the hard object he held in his right and left hand, threatened all of us here, has no right to say to that government, "We will not stop unless this law passes and we will not allow even intervention with the amendments." Therefore, gentlemen, I demand that you listen a little, to quench your passions. I'm sure I can tell you that we won't let it all depend on us, because we won't put ourselves on a pillar of shame here. We'll allow you one thing, gentlemen Members of Parliament, all of you, since I see that you're participating and you want to participate in this debate, to find out a little bit more about your cards on which side. Therefore, gentlemen of Parliament, as far as we're concerned, about this very important law, which should not have come here at all at this moment, which is the law proposed by the Vojvodina Assembly, past the Constitution, we think we need to talk a little bit more. What does that mean? A little more talk? That all those who have been silent here and who say that he depends on New Serbia, however, show that much more depends on them, that there are parliamentary groups present here, who have put their position a little bit, but more in the cheerleading tone, present little more detail in front of the Serbian, Yugoslav and world public so that US voice station America does not share the news, like last night, that when voting in the Serbian parliament, the tab will be New Serbia. New Serbia can't be a tab. New Serbia is exactly the opposite of this division. It is the new Serbia who thinks with its own mind, and we will not be guilty of thinking with someone else's head. Let me tell you something else. There's been a misunderstanding here. We have a bill promoter, and this is the Assembly of the Republic of Vojvodina, who has proposed this law against whom we are. We're absolutely against a bill like this, because it's the way it shouldn't be. Let me tell you right now, this bill was issued here yesterday by the president of the assembly and he cannot possibly be supported by New Serbia's MPs. Let me tell you something else -- on this bill, the government, here present, which we have chosen, has given 30 amendments, which the President of the Assembly has not accepted from this pay phone. Why, then, gentlemen, if the President of the Vojvodina Assembly does not accept 30 amendments to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, would allow New Serbia to bear the eagle responsible for this or that. Let us see here whether the Vojvodina Assembly is the one who will consistently insist on its law or whether it is the Government of Serbia who will insist on its 30 amendments? Gentlemen, as New Serbia will vote, that will be seen. I'm telling you, it is here to see if the law of the Republic of Vojvodina Assembly, against whom we are, has a passage or a passage of these 30 amendments, which the Government of the Republic of Serbia has submitted. We'll see how those 30 amendments defend those who proposed them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-23-0.u16513	I would just like to inform you that the Autonomous District Assembly has sent a report telling us that 19 amendments have been accepted. The words came from Justice and Local Self-Government Minister Mr. Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-23-0.u16514	The Honorable Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Representatives of the People's Resistance Movement, it seems to me that no bill of law has ever caused such an eruption of passion, such a wave of unnecessary emotions. Nothing dramatic will happen to the debate, or the vote of this law. Gentlemen, I would like to remind you that we are in Europe in the 21st century, that decentralisation is one of the greatest flows of modern European democracy, that nothing epochal is established by this law. I would like to remind you that the legislator of this law is not Nenad Canak; if we have little respect for the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, which has 120 MPs, then we should have a different relationship with that assembly. So Vojvodina has its own historical autonomy, there have been many words about it since the Sremski Karlovci Assembly in 1848. So it's a historical tradition. This proposal restores the minimum competences established by the 1990 Constitution. This has nothing to do with the 1974 Constitution. It's about something that is the fluid of European democracy at this point, it's about a minimum of minimum and a transitional solution, until by adopting a constitution we definitely don't regulate the status of the AP Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-23-0.u16515	With this presentation, we've completed the search in principle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-23-0.u16516	Dear People's MPs, I appeal to Article 115 paragraph 3. The Rules of Procedure, which I shall quote, "At the request of the People's Parliament, the National Assembly may, without a search, decide to vote by a call in a manner determined by this Rules of Procedure." The reason that makes me suggest this is so that the situation we had when we passed the Labour Law would not happen. My intention is to keep in the stenographic notes who voted. Many MPs here said this was a very important law, some even called it historic. I would completely agree with New Serbia's MPs, who said they did not want it to depend on what fate this law will be. Come on, then, let's all individually introduce ourselves to the public and make the public clear who it was that voted. That's what I'd end up with.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-23-0.u16517	I would like to put a vote on a proposal from the People's Parliament to call the vote. For 121 against 114 abstentions, two of the 237 MPs did not vote. After this decision, I set a break because it is necessary to prepare a public vote. The break is up to 15.00 hours. [[After break -16,10.]] Please, in order to determine the quorum, insert identification cards into MPs. I find that, by applying the electronic system, we have a quorum and we can continue to work. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, the session is attended by 224 MPs. Reporting by the Rules of Procedure, MP Stevan Z. Guduric, as representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-23-0.u16519	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the president of the Assembly has injured two members of the Rules of Procedure, those are members of the 28th and 81st. Article 28, among other things, reads - the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. And Article 81 says: "The National Assembly session is held between 10.00 and 18.00 hours, with an hour's interruption, unless the National Assembly, exceptionally, decides otherwise for certain days. The decision is, as a rule, at the beginning of the working day." It's normal for one who presides and says, the break is up to 15.00 hours, he should sit down at 15.00 hours on his chair and start a session, if that's the case. The one who scheduled at 15.00 hours arrived at 16.10 and arrived today at 15 to 11.00, etc. So, first the chairman, let's get it in order, and then maybe we'll get the MPs, too.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-23-0.u16520	Mr. Guduric, I'm obliged to give you an explanation, but that doesn't seem to interest you. The chairman was at 10:15 today here at the National Assembly. So you made one mistake. The other thing is, you said yourself that we keep working when we get caught. You yourself said that when you advertised the Rules of Procedure. Since the DOS College session was held, we didn't have any conditions, so I waited for the conditions to come, and then we started working. If you're not happy with the answer, I can put it to a vote. [[Zagor in the O.R.]] Do you want me to put it to a vote? I'm putting on the vote for an injury the MP Stevan G. Guduric pointed out. For 108, against 112 abstentions, there was no 9 vote, out of 229 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has made a decision that the Rules of Procedure have not been injured by members advertised by MP Stevan G. Guduric. May I have your attention, please? Since the National Assembly has decided to vote on a bill establishing certain competences of the autonomous province, in principle, through a public vote - by calling the MPs, we move to a public vote - by calling. Before we go to the vote - by calling, I remind you it's article 121. The Rules of Procedure set out the procedure for the public vote - by calling and, according to that provision, the Secretary of the National Assembly shall call on the MPs by the alphabetical order of the last name; each appointed MP shall pronounce the word "yes", "no" or "abstained"; the chairman shall repeat the name and name of the MP who voted and his statement, or establish that he is absent and does not wish to vote; the Secretary of the National Assembly shall write down a statement of the MP or his absence, with his name and last name on the list. I put to the vote the draft law laying down certain competences of the Autonomous Province, in principle. We approach the vote by producing MPs. I ask the Secretary of the National Assembly to make the call of the MPs, in the alphabetical order of the last name and record their statement.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-23-0.u16521	Alexic Bojana - abstention, Andrić Vladimir - abstention, Andrić Ivan - za, Andrić Dr Milena - za, Angelković Dušica - za, Angelković Zoran - za, Antonijević Dr Vukožan, Arnerić Neda - absent, Arsić Veroljub - v, Arsić Joca - v, Adžić Slobodan - abstensive, Babić Dragoš - za, Bajić Rade - v, Baralić Rajko - v, Bešević Branko - za, Budišin Dušan - v, Buštić Toma - v, Vašdar - za, Hrošan - Mr. Miržanović - against Mr. Miržanović - Božilić Draga - za, Bošt, Bošović - za, Budjović - za, Budišin Dusan - za, Budiš - v, Budiš - v, Bušt, Buštić Tomat - v, Vašt, Vaštić - Vaštić - Vašt, Vaštić - Vštić - Vštić - Vštić - Vštić - Vštić, Žladrić - Živić, Živić, Žladrić, Vžnić, Živić, Vžnić, Vživić, Vžrić, Živić, Z. Borislav - v, Perić Hranislav - absent, Petković Dusan - za, Petković Milisav - za, Petrić mr Radojko - v, Petrović Petar - v, Petrović Srdjan - održan, Pljužarović Vitomir - v, Pomoričko Mr Branislav - za, Popović Gordana - za, Popović Dr Sava - za, Popović Draga - za, Popović Draga - v, Popović Srđa - v, Popović Srđa - za, Predojev Živić Momir - za, Radulović - za, Radovović Vladjan - za, Radulović - za, Radulović - za, Radulovnović - against, Živić, Radović Mr Zvić - against, Radoić - against, Radoić - against, Radoić Momir Momir - against, Radosavić - against, Radosavić - against, Radal, Radović, Radović, Radović, Radović, Radović, Radović, Radović, Radović, Radović, Radović, Radović, Radović, Radović, Radović, Slav -.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-23-0.u16522	After voting on the draft law in principle, I conclude the vote. Allow me to announce the results of the vote. Of the 249 MPs, there were 13 absent, 236 MPs joined the vote. For 119, v. 74, abstention 42, is not one, a total of 236. Dear People's MPs, on the basis of your vote, I find that the National Assembly has adopted a bill establishing certain competences of the autonomous province, in principle. Ladies and gentlemen, I suggest that because of the reports we received today from the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, we do not continue the discussion in particular but to take a break and please make a statement about my proposal. I'm putting the motion to vote so we can set a break and continue our work tomorrow. For 117 against 11, the abstention one, did not vote 48, a total of 177 MPs. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to inform you that there has been a delay because there has been a meeting of two committees. We continue the session of the First Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, the session is attended by 160 MPs. To determine the quorum, please insert identification cards into the MPs. I find that the application of the electronic system has established that we have a quorum for work, despite the fact that not all MPs have inserted the identification cards and that the Legislative Committee is in session. I would like to inform you that the following MPs will be absent: Stevan Lilic, Miomir Tadic, Vladimir Dobrosavljevic, Vlatko Sekulović, Ratimir Svirčević, Srdjan Sikimić, Nebojsa Leković, Ljubodrag Grbić, Dusan Budišin, Jelena Milenković, Milan Ernjaković, Momcilo Trajkovic, Kermeci Karolj, Zlata Djerić, Dragan Jočić and Radomir Naumovpri noon. I hereby inform the National Assembly that they are invited to attend the meetings of the President, Vice-President, Minister and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat; Nenad Canak, President of the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina and Dr Predrag Filipov, Vice-President of the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, as the mandated representatives of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, who submitted the draft law laying down certain competences of the Autonomous Province, whose consideration is set out in point 2 of the agenda of this session. Also, according to members 83 and 84. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that I also invited representatives of the People's Movement "Resistance", as well as representatives of the Association of Families Kidnapped and Missing in Kosovo and Metohija. Moving to 2. Point of the agenda: - PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON DETERMINATION OF AUTONOMAL AUTHORITY (the follow-up in particular) According to the Rules of Procedure? You are not the president of the parliamentary group, Mr Simonovic. A suggestion? Here you go. National MP Velimir Simonovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
