ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-04-0.u21748	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the Second Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, the session is attended by 144 MPs. To determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units. I figure we have a quorum and we can keep working. I would like to inform you that he was prevented from being attended by MP Bora Stanimirovic. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. Also, according to members 83 and 84. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that I invited representatives of the Centre for Free Elections and Democracy, the People's Movement "Resist" and the National Democratic Institute to this session. I welcome the guests present. We're moving on to the adoption of the minutes from the previous session. You were presented the minutes of the first session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002, held on 27 and 28 March, 2, 3, 4, 9, 10, 11, 15, 16, 17, 18, 22, 23, 24 and 25 April, 8, 9, 13, 14, 15, 20, 21 and 22 May 2002. Is there any objection to the record? No, there isn't. ) Since there are no objections to the record, we move to a decision on the record in general. I am voting on the minutes of the first session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002, held on 27 and 28 March, 2, 3, 4, 9, 10, 11, 15, 16, 17, 18, 22, 23, 24 and 25 April, 8, 9, 13, 14, 15, 20, 21 and 22 May 2002. For 112, there are no, abstentions two, no vote 24, of 138 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the 1st session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with a call from the Second Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002, which was called at the request of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, pursuant to Article 79(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 163 The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have been submitted to you for the maintenance of the Second Extraordinary Session, with the agenda set out in that request. As you could see, for the Second Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the following Dn e n i d: 1. Proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the parliamentary group of the Democratic Opposition of Serbia; 2. Proposal for a decision on the resolution and appointment of members of the Republic Election Commission and their deputies, submitted by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the Democratic Opposition of Serbia's parliamentary group; 3. Proposal for a law on local elections, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia; 4. Proposal for a law on the granting of counterguarantee to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia for payment of commitments under the mandate of the ZTP "Belgrade" at the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 5. The proposal for a law on the granting of counter-guarantee to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia for payment of commitments under the responsibility of the JP "Electroprivreda Srbija" at the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Since all the draft acts in the agenda of this session have been proposed to be considered by an emergency procedure, the committees responsible, if they have not already done so, will submit their reports on the examination of these acts during the session. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Decision on Amendments and Compendiums of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia You have received a proposal for a decision tabled by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the Democratic Opposition Group of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Srdjan Sikimic, Branislav Kovacevic and jointly Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Adam Urosevic. Amendments which, pending the opening of a search pursuant to the Rules of Procedure, will be sent to you during the session. I remind you, according to Article 157(3) and Article 90 respectively. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total debate time for parliamentary groups, is five hours and a single search on this agenda point is being conducted. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to present me with a list of registered speakers for this item on the agenda. Consent to Article 157. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Does he want the word "proposer"? The word is from MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the DOS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-04-0.u21749	Ms. Micic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to introduce you to the draft amending and supplementing the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, so that, in a single search, we can take the facts and arguments that actually motivated the amendments to the rules governing our behaviour in the Republic of Serbia, our work, in the opinion of the DOS parliamentary group, makes it more effective and at the same time removes all the technical obstacles that are actually due to the overcome business arrangement of the Republic's parliament. The reasons for the emergency procedure are, I believe, clear and obvious and I do not think anyone can dispute the finding that the work of the Republic's parliament in the last period can be described as unstable, unconstructive, problematic, given that the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has become the most unstable state institution, thus questioning the democratic order in which we insist and which we create for a year and a half. The DOS parliamentary group received 176 MPs in December's 2000 elections to change Serbia. I think that as DOS MPs with our behaviour within the Republic's parliament, we have fully responded to our obligation, but at the same time in this business we have faced a number of obstacles that must be removed in order for our work to be exactly what the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are asking us to do. I think that is why this Rules of Procedure can be seen, above all, as our insistence that those standards that are characteristic of all developed democratic societies be introduced within the Republic Parliament. The amendments to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which, in line with trends and rules of modern democracies, are also followed by amendments to the Rules of Procedure and lay down different rules of discussion in principle and in particular and the new principle of vote by MPs in the National Assembly. I would remind you that, after two amendments to the Rules of Procedure which have passed in harsh debates and several days of debates and discussions, we have faced some technical inconsistencies and inconsistencies that should be removed in order for MPs, regardless of party membership, to respond to their duties. Accordingly, the DOS parliamentary group decided that the principle defined before and before the DOS existed, the principle of convening an extraordinary session and the number of MPs needed to achieve such a thing in a legal sense, applied to the achievement of the working quorum, a new category that emerged from more than a clear practice of constant prevention of the funkconization of parliament, by preventing the achievement of a number of 126 MPs, a number that is without an example in the practice of quorums that insist on parliaments of modern democracies. That is why from now on, according to the proposal of the Rules of Procedure that we insist on, a third of the MPs of the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will need to start a smooth debate in principle and in particular, since it is clear that the third can begin the debate if it has the opportunity, the right and the freedom to call, for example, an extraordinary session. I think the DOS parliamentary group can no longer give an alibi to MPs who have seen parliament as a space in which it will deal with time and Serbia send a message that nothing has changed in it. We are ready to fully respond to our obligations, but we will no longer be a front for those irresponsible individuals who have lost so much to the congregation, and thus society has lost so much. It is in line with this that we have also established a sanction that does not reduce the rights of the MPs, but potentials their responsibility. There is no job in this society, in this country, where people can behave the way some MPs have acted. Therefore, the obligation of MPs who establish a working relationship in the Serbian Parliament will be daily participation in plenary sessions of the republican parliament and constant work in congregation working bodies. If you opt for such a privilege, you realize that it is also followed by very specific obligations and that these obligations must be met, because otherwise the status of Members of the Parliament in permanent work will be withdrawn. As for the disdain we faced after the launch of this initiative, I would point to the flagrant disrespect of parliament and the ignoring of facts that are not precedentd in our work. And so far, the Republic Assembly, in situations where extraordinary sessions have been scheduled and it has not been a proposing, intervened and asked the proposings - as a rule, the Government of the Republic of Serbia - to include in the agenda those points which, in our opinion, are priority and necessary for us as MPs. With that in mind, the DOS parliamentary group sent two requests to the Republic government at the beginning of last year, as it scheduled an extraordinary session due to two counter-guarantees and an amendment to the law that monitors local elections in southern Serbia. I think it is more than clear political manipulation to which the government has been criticised and found that it is changing its Rules of Procedure on the work of the People's Sculpture of the Republic of Serbia. If the MPs of the opposition and part of the MPs of the formerly single DOS parliamentary club are so controversial, the DOS parliamentary group fully supports the Republic government; we respect its work and do not think it would be degradeable for us that such an initiative came from it itself, but it does not comply with the laws, with the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Republika Srpska Assembly, and so it is false. Those who thought it would prevent such changes from happening with untrueness have actually just confirmed that everything DOS has done lately is justified and that in its decisions we must be persistent and consistent. I would like to comment on several major changes that actually reform the work of the Assembly for the first time, since our Parliament, unlike all other state institutions, has passed reforms and changes precisely because of the compromises made within the DOS parliamentary group and this Parliament. There is no reason not to apply rules that allow for the smooth work of the congregations, whether it is countries located in our immediate environment, such as Hungary, whether it is England, we are not going to dispute its parliamentaryism, or the American Congress. With that in mind, we have established a new method of discussion in the principles and details and new voting principles. This will deprive the kind of conflict and confusion some have insisted on, counting on car accidents and diseases as a chance in which they recognized the opportunity to break the laws on which the DOS parliamentary group insists. Therefore, in accordance with the amendments of the Rules of Procedure, the President of the National Assembly will, if adopted, establish a day for voting. This will normally be the day after discussions are held in principle and on details at all points of the agenda. In order for the Assembly to have a working quorum, it is necessary to have one third of the MPs present. We think it's a good change, and it's by no means precedent in parliamentaryism, nor is it cut by any legal norms. As for those technical obstacles that we faced during the previous period, after the last amendment of the Rules of Procedure, it is very important to point out that the abuses of Rules of Procedure, which were most often made by representatives of an opposition parliamentary group and which we want to remove, given that we consider that the objection to the Rules of Procedure is a serious category and that the movement of such a right actually degrades the possibility and calls into question the functioning of a parliament that is by no means at all, respecting one such freedom, debated the application of the Rules of Procedure, has already faced crises which have been resolved or given notice or the interruption of sessions in order for MPs to be removed from the hall. From now on, the observations under the Rules of Procedure will be able to be made only by the President of the Parliamentary Group or by an authorised representative, and the objections will be made by the Administrative Board and will be notified to the Assembly which will then be able to respect the observations and the position of the Administrative Board, i.e. to deny them. As far as sanctioning irresponsible MPs is concerned, it is two-sided. It is statusual in the sense that an MP who is on permanent duty here in parliament loses his status unless he meets his obligations, which is very clearly established through a radical change in sanctions to lawmakers who are excluded from the republican parliament. There is no reason for the loudest and most dominant to be the worst among us within the Republic of Serbia's Assembly. If that was the case, something like that has to be interrupted. It wasn't because no one else had arguments, it was because we didn't agree to this kind of behavior as a method of civilised political action. Therefore, the future MP, who thinks that two warnings are not quality sanctions, will be excluded from this session, but not within 20 working days, as has been the case so far, but within 90 working days. The amendment to the Rules of Procedure concerns any MP who does not respect the Assembly and violates the Rules of Procedure on the work of the People's Parliament. I will also be pleased to introduce you with more than a clear support that follows the amendments of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Republika Srpska Assembly, which is, indeed, not specifically identified as commendation, but as an open criticism. The worst state institution in our society is the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and those who say that there is no need to amend the Rules of Procedure, actually say that such a situation should not be changed; they support such a thing. The DOS parliamentary group has decided to draw a clear line, to separate work from labour, to prevent the collapse of the democratic order, which was created in this country on October 5th, to confirm the election will of citizens from the December 2000 elections and to send a message to the public that there are democratic potentials within parliament to win the fight that is open here, politically, of course, in which representatives of the former regime's parties in the part of our coalition have found a co-worker in the business of preventing parliament from functioning. Thank you, and I ask you to support these amendments to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-04-0.u21750	There is a word from MP Dragan Markovic, president of the Soviet Parliament's group, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-04-0.u21751	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, I am advertising Article 221, because we have repeatedly applied for the agenda point to be agriculture and peasants, so I would ask the majority, DOS, to schedule an extraordinary session where the agenda would be, given that we have a crop harvest in 20 days; in addition, these days we have a roadblock because the price of raspberries is very low; the president of the Committee should schedule a session of the Committee, to raise the issue and ask the Minister of Agriculture to come to this hall and explain to us what the price of cereals will be this year and why, as well as every year, he has not provided regressed oil to farmers? Let me tell you, we've provided in Jagodina, and that's what we've made DOS accept, and that's what we need to do here, to provide 50 liters of oil for those who sowed a hectare of grain. I think it would be a great help for agricultural producers. Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen, the point of the agricultural agenda should come to this assembly because the promise made by the Prime Minister in Machva is not respected that agricultural producers who have failed to comply with certain obligations to the state will be able to register their cars if the cars are in the name of the agricultural producer. This is not applied in practice. Also, these days, accounts have arrived for all those who have guns and guns, so it's all connected; if they go to register a car, farmers have to pay all taxes that the DOS has introduced in the last two years. My request is for DOS to propose an emergency session by emergency procedure, with one item on the agenda - agricultural production and peasants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-04-0.u21752	I'm only obliged to give an answer. National MP Dragan Markovic has advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I find that there are no violations of the Rules of Procedure and I am informing MP Dragan Markovic that, according to the Constitution, Article 79(3) of the motion for an extraordinary session may be submitted by a third of the MPs or by the Government, and may this be your time to schedule an extraordinary session. There is a word from the chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, MP Zoran Micovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-04-0.u21753	Ladies and gentlemen, dear friends, we can look for a call for every little thing, for a big deal and for any problem that is within our rules of procedure, which we will discuss today and how. But, ladies and gentlemen, there are some things in the state that parliament can't have every session about, but it needs to be done by his services, so the government services and the services responsible for this job. In particular, if it is a raspberries, therefore, it is one very serious job, which includes the last 60 days and raspberries producers in Serbia and those who export raspberries. Therefore, why any story in parliament today, on the subject of cheap political and demagogue points, to be placed in that people there, which was at the end of a serious agreement on the way of joint investment, joint conservation of raspberries, joint exports and shared profit sharing; the government was involved in digivor, and so Minister Veselinov was in Ariel, Minister Slobodan Milosavljevic and the prime minister of the sector; therefore, at 15.30 is scheduled to meet with both the prime minister and the other side. So, and as we do, all night long the team's doing this thing slowly sorting out how to handle it. I just heard from BETA that the strike was interrupted by the organizer. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, and how this government cares as to the names that we are in charge of, which makes it the president of the municipality and the committee of directors, and don't worry about it this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-04-0.u21754	Since a single search has been opened on this agenda point and pursuant to Article 157, which means that amendments could have been submitted until the opening of the search, I suggest that we take a break by 12.00 hours and hold a session of the Committee by the Legislative and Administrative Committee; I would also ask the heads of Parliament's clubs to come to my office to agree on a constitutional commission for the drafting of the Constitutional Charter. I'm giving a break an hour, up to 12:00, and I'm asking the committees to deliver the report. [[After break - 13,15.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please insert your identification cards into the MPs to determine the quorum. I figure we have a quorum and we can keep working. Sorry I'm late, the board of directors' session is still under way. In the course of the break, you were presented with amendments that were made to the Proposal for amendments and additions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia: Vera Marković; together Srdja Popović, Vojislav Janković and Milan Stanimirović; Vojislav Seselj, Dragan Pavlović; Milan Stanković and Dragan Todorovic; Golub Rajić and Zoran Nikolic; Joca Arsić and Hranislav Perić; Rade Bajić and Nebojša Jović; Toma Bušetić and Borvoje Drakulović; Branko Ružić and Slobodan Tomović; Radojko Petrović and Ljubiša Marović; Rajko Baralić and Milan Žire Janković; Đura Ljavić and Dusan Cvetković; Vladimir Garčević and Rade Bajić; Dragan Jovanović and Sreten Mitrić; Srević and Žira Lajura Lazić; Zoranažić and Joljović Žović Žović Žalić and Jokić Žalić Žalić Žalić Žalić Žalić and Žalić Žalić Žalić and Žalić Žalić Žalić Žalić Žalić and Boić.ić.ić.ić.ić.ić. You received a report from the Legislative Committee. At the session of the Legislative Committee, MPs Djordje Mamula and Slobodan Adzic singled out. Since the Management Board has not yet completed its work, there are many amendments, I propose that we apply Article 160 paragraph 2: "If the committees do not submit reports within the specified time limit, the draft law can be reviewed in the National Assembly and without a report from the Committee." I suggest we make a decision to continue the debate without a report from the Administrative Committee, which will be delivered to us during the debate. I ask the Members of Parliament to make a statement by voting on this proposal. For 101, against 54, the abstentions were not voted 11 out of 166 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided to continue the debate without reports from the Administrative Board, which will be delivered to us during the debate. I would also suggest that MPs who have issued an opinion on the Administrative Committee and the Management Committee's rapporteur give an opportunity to participate in the debate when they complete their work. Do the officials of the committees want a word, does the president of the Legislative Committee want a word? No, I don't. ) Do the MPs who have given their opinion, the MP of the people, George Mamula, and the MP of the people, Slobodan Adzic, want a word? Please, MP George Mamula, who delivered an opinion at the session of the Legislative Committee, has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-04-0.u21756	I do not believe that the conditions are met to hold an emergency debate because, under Article 158, there are no circumstances that could not be predicted, and that the adoption of the law by emergency procedure can cause adverse effects on life and health, the country's safety and the work of organs and organisations. In the light of the proposal for an amendment to the Rules of Procedure, no adverse consequences shall be mentioned at all, nor shall they be explained in which they would be composed. It does not specify circumstances, therefore, a relationship of facts that could not be predicted. I therefore believe that there was no reason for the debate to be organised under Article 158, so according to that provision that regulates the emergency procedure. But it was probably done to shorten the time for the amendment. In addition, I believe that Article 10 of the Amendment to the Rules of Procedure, which actually speaks of Article 102(2), gives the President of the Assembly enormous powers. Namely, the president of the assembly can now set a distance from the session, in the first and last stages, the ambassador against whom such a measure has been imposed has no right to object. So there's no two-degree decision-making, which provides for the Constitution. In addition, Article 24, which speaks of amendments to Article 217, contains a proposal to add a new Member of 217a, which speaks of Members who are in permanent work in the National Assembly and that they are obliged to attend the session when determining the quorum as well as during the session. I believe this proposal does not comply with Article 35. The Constitution of the SRJ, which guarantees the right to publicly express its opinion, including the expression of opinion by procedure; therefore, by leaving the session and the decision not to listen to something that someone does not want to listen to; so it is not in accordance with the Constitution or with the Civil and Political Rights Pact, so I ask you to take care of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-04-0.u21757	I thank Mr. Mamuli. Is MP Slobodan Adzic, who has also singled out his opinion, reporting for a word? Please, the word has been given by MP Slobodan Adzic, who gave an opinion at the session of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-04-0.u21758	Dear President, honourable fellow Members, as a member of the Legislative Committee, I took the view at the session when making a decision assessing that the proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is in line with the legal order. I believe he's a member of the 5th. Proposal in indirect contrast to Article 80(1) The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. What's this about? The work of the Assembly requires a proposal for a decision, a one-third quorum, and a Article 80. The Serbian Constitution says, "The National Assembly decides by majority of votes at a session attended by most of the total number of MPs." The concept which, through the proposal for amendments to jurisdiction, is delegated part of the power of the Assembly to the President of the Assembly in an indirect manner, is played by Article 80. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. By nature of the matter, the Serbian Parliament regulates the way it works at the session, and in particular one important issue, the issue of order at the session. The transfer of all powers relating to procedural issues during the session's work in the days of discussion is the opposite of the nature of the existence and decision of the body itself, such as the Assembly. By transferring such a large number of powers to the Rules of Procedure to the president of the Assembly, one of the fundamental rights, both to the positional and opposition MPs, is taken directly into the Serbian Parliament's decision-making process. This solution is contrary to the basic principles of the democratic constitutional order that we all stand for. We have previously assessed that the current Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is restrictive in a democratic sense. Such a solution in the new Rules of Procedure will also be more restrictive than the current restrictive Serbian Constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-04-0.u21759	Thank you. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, report for a word? Here's a word from MP Zarko Obradovic, president of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-04-0.u21760	The Honorable Presidency, honourable fellow Members, has for the third time in the past 16 months as long as there is and works by this National Assembly on the agenda is a change in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. It speaks in itself of the importance of the DOS attaching to this issue, and even an extraordinary session of parliament was scheduled in February 2001 to change the Rules of Procedure. We also started the fall session with the Rules of Procedure as the first item of the agenda. What has the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, an internal act governing the organization and way of work of the Assembly, earned such importance that the Assembly has been discussing it for the third time? Is it possible for the DOS to have no more significant issues than the changes in its Rules of Procedure, whether DOS knows that in Serbia there is nothing that should be: that production is not there; the standard of living falls; that unemployment is growing; that there is crime, cigarette smuggling and that the situation in southern Serbia and Kosovo and Metohija is not improving. For the government, everything is in order and there is one more open and unresolved issue left, the way the Assembly works, which it wants to resolve with these rules of procedure. Why does the Government of the Republic of Serbia deal with the rules of procedure? The answer is very simple. The change of rules of procedure, reducing the rights of opposition MPs, wants to choke and the last place in Serbia to hear an argumentary, critical word against the work of the government of the Republic of Serbia, and therefore the government has requested that the first item of the agenda be the amendment of the Rules of Procedure. This is certainly a rare case in the world that the government, the executive body, is asking that the assembly, a legislative body, discuss a legal act of internal character, an act of organisation and the way the congregation works. This request by the Government of the Republic of Serbia shows us very plastically and proves the image of today's Serbia; where the government thinks of itself and what the National Assembly is transformed into. With this request, the Government of the Republic of Serbia made it clear that it had transformed the National Assembly, of course with the help of the assembly majority of DOS, into an auxiliary body of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So far, there have been numerous examples of misrepresentation by the government: the lack of ministers, the challenge of MPs, arrogant behaviour, the lack of education of the bill, the ignoring of submitted amendments, etc.; but this is the first time, indeed, for the first time in the history of parliamentaryism in these 12 years, that the government regulates the way the Assembly works. If this amendment of the Rules of Procedure is adopted, with amendments made in February and October 2001, we will get one surrogate from the National Assembly, certainly not what the Assembly should be, nor what Serbia deserves. The collapse of the Assembly through the amendments of the Rules of Procedure was initiated by reducing the possibility of MPs taking part in the debate on the draft law in particular; through the time frames of presentation and restrictions on the number of debates; then, through changes to the right of replication, to continue through a drastic reduction of time for discussion on agenda points, by transferring that right from MPs to a parliamentary group, through the inability of more MPs to submit amendments to the bill's proposal; by limiting the circle of MPs that can speak of injury to the Rules of Procedure; by introducing fines, which is, of course, contrary to Article 77. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and through a number of other restrictive measures. This negative trend of the congregation’s majority toward the National Assembly has continued through changes to the Rules of Procedure that are now being proposed. It is now proposed that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia works without a quorum, which is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It is obvious that DOS cannot provide a quorum for the work of the Assembly, 126 or more MPs, and is therefore resorting to this solution. Since DOS MPs are busy with other jobs and are difficult to gather in the Assembly, it is proposed that one day when everyone will be together, that day will be declared voting day and then all the laws will be passed. Any possibility that someone in the congregation may even be asked for additional exposure is abolished. This member of the Rules of Procedure, which has not been used much so far, believes that it is better to abolish than to have one of the MPs call on him by chance. The possibility of the Assembly being able to declare the request of the MPs for replicas is lifted. Penalties are tightened and transferred to the authority of the president of the assembly. The measure of distance from the session will not be expressed by the National Assembly as it has been, but will be left at will and appraisal by the president of the National Assembly. Since the first among the equals, the president of the National Assembly has thus become a judge who imposes fines. It is predicted that the distance from the session takes 90 days, just as long as the spring or autumn session of the Assembly takes place. There's nothing democratic about it. A special story is the transfer of jobs and therefore responsibilities, but also the eyes of the public from the National Assembly to the Administrative Committee. The committee has already been celebrated by the arbitrary interpretation of the Rules of Procedure: disrespecting the law, violating the rights of MPs, introducing penalties for MPs, etc. It is now being transferred to that committee by the Assembly so far to declare its injury to the Rules of Procedure. I can imagine the board will be working on this. How consistent the Committee in its inconsistency shows today's session, when it refused for the second time to establish the termination of the term of office of one disfellowshipped member of the SPS, Professor Ivkovic, thereby restoring the Socialist Party's mandate under the Law on the selection of MPs. We have filed all the necessary documents: decisions, complaints, memos from the Ministry, statutes, rules of procedure, but we have received one ridiculous explanation that the National Assembly has not been informed about this, and at the same time on the agenda of this Administrative Committee were documents that were listed today. It is obvious that the Administrative Board is above the law of the Serbian state and that the laws of the Serbian state do not apply to it. It is obvious that this Administrative Committee wants the mandate, probably others, to be transferred to the DOS and thus solves the problem of the parliamentary majority, a problem that has led to the change of the Rules of Procedure. Because of these congregation mandates, of course, the media is covering this fake SPS congress and trying to destroy the SPS. Dear fellow MPs, the changes to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly so far have made one bad document of the Rules of Procedure. The proposed changes make the document even worse. I expect that, in line with the trend of change of the National Assembly, which is forced by the majority of the DOS, the next amendment of the Rules of Procedure to support the Government of the Republic of Serbia should be a condition that someone can be an MP in the Assembly, or that they can carry out parliamentary affairs. In October 2001, in amending the Rules of Procedure, DOS said Parliament should be the face of Serbia. Since I am convinced that these amendments to the Rules of Procedure have not become a face, but rather, Serbia's counterpart and Serbia needs a new face -- it is necessary to elect new MPs in the new republican elections to make a new Rules of Procedure; which will take care of the dignity of the Assembly, the dignity of the MPs, the tolerance, mutual respect and respect, reduce the exclusions that exist, respect the position and opinions of the opposition and a number of other things that the existing Rules of Procedure do not contain. For all the negative reasons I have mentioned, which the amendments to the Rules of Procedure contain, the Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group will not vote for its adoption.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-04-0.u21761	Are any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, answering for a word? No, I don't. ) We continue to work towards the application for a word in the joint principle debate on amendments and additions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The People's MP Srdjan Sikimic has the word. He's giving up. The word has a folk MP Milos Todorovic, followed by MP Aleksandar Radosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-04-0.u21762	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Democratic Opposition of Serbia parliamentary group, in light of the draft decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedures we are considering today, says there is a constitutional basis for this. I stress two words - the constitutional basis, because it is indeed a very fine irony and sarcasm worthy of Radoj Domanovic's feather. The constitutional basis for the destruction of the Constitution and of all laws and the execution of the coup in the National Assembly was found, therefore, in order to abolish the Assembly itself. The proposed amendments to the Rules of Procedures and the parliamentary majority want to enable Parliament to function with only 84 MPs, so that the MPs of the DoS do not have to attend the session of the Assembly in the future and the debate; it is enough to stop by on the day d, that is, on the so-called day of voting, press the key and thus fulfil their parliamentary commitment to the Government. Even the most arrogant power of recent history would not dare reach for such drastic and shameful measures. The DOS will not be obliged to attend meetings of the Assembly, as there will be enough 84, and will remove the opposition through a 90-day criminal exclusion. The amendment of the Rules of Procedure wants to effectively and rationally bring as many laws as possible to prevent obstructions and incidents in the Assembly and why did the opposition resort to obstruction in this parliament when it comes to the establishment and maintenance of the quorum? The rest of the DOS, which supports and listens to the government and argues that there is a stable majority in the assembly, does not actually have a majority, and does not want an agreement and compromise with other parliamentary parties. They want to hold all power, to bring laws in the presence of hundreds of their messengers. That's why they're trying to secure the quorum with various abuses of the Rules of Procedure. On the other hand, opposition MPs are trying to prevent the adoption of laws and the implementation of policies that do not comply with their programme by not attending the assembly sessions. So it's a vote before the vote, a measure allowed in all parliaments in the world. Why have there been major or smaller incidents in this House? Whoever objectively looks at the matter will admit that the incidents are due to the constant violation of the Rules of Procedure by the majority and the president himself of the National Assembly. We all remember the previous thugs in Parliament well. Like the current president, they have also irritated the opposition with petty provocations, unfounded warnings and exclusions from the session. To all the topical president of the National Assembly, it added ignoring the orderly requirements for the removal of government and individual ministers. The opposition MPs are only people of blood and flesh, have emotions and react to injustice and unfair intentions, especially the unfair application of the Rules of Procedure. It is not the Parliament's president's task to meet the government's wishes at all costs, but to conduct an impartial session of the National Assembly by consistently applying the Rules of Procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, if there really is an amendment to the Rules of Procedure, as suggested by DOS, i.e. Government, there will be a change of our state order from a bar of apparent democracy in the government's dictatorship over the people. The amendments to the Rules of Procedure will drastically reverse the voter's will expressed on 23 December 2000. A government of minorities in the National Assembly will sit down and pass laws without MPs, and "those who did not vote for the government", as someone here recently said, will be eliminated from the National Assembly. The highly controlled government media will explain that only then did democracy occur and that Parliament only works when the government's laws are passed, as in Charlie Chaplin's moving tape. The idea that only those who voted for the government's election deserve to be better worked out, goes to the Rules of Procedure, and then enters the Constitution. This could be a significant export product, because no one in the world has ever thought of it. Their insolent knowledge and the centuries-old parliamentary tradition when they have no sense of principle: whoever wants to vote against must vote yes. So, gentlemen of the opposition, from now on you'll have to vote for the government if you want to tear it down. This is only at first sight absurd, but if the quorum can be what is not quorum and that the opposition is held by force in the Assembly, then it's perfectly normal for the government to vote on every one of its own, or even the most angry opponent. It looks crazy, but it really helps with the DOS. All these electoral thefts after the government's election and the D.O.S. In decomposition should not have any foothold in the electoral body. Due to the unpopularity of the prime minister and their ministerial satellites, the rest of the DOS is running away from the election as the devil from the cross. They know that voters will wipe them out of the political scene, so they speculate with the change of Rules of Procedure, the blockade of the media and the definitive exorcism of the opposition from the National Assembly. With such a blow in the Parliament, the government and the DOS want to extend their authority for at least another year to ensure that individuals realise their personal plans and ambitions to harm the people of Serbia. The people are on the verge of patience, hunger and survival, and something very serious can soon be expected to begin. As far as the Government is concerned, Article 24 is best illustrated by the National Assembly. Proposal for a Decision amending the Rules of Procedure. According to that member, MPs who are constantly working in the National Assembly are given the status of governmental obedient officials. They are no longer able to represent the programme and policy of their parties, which they have been chosen for, but are obliged to hold the quorum closely while DOS MPs campaign "on the good roads of Serbia". If the government and DOS want the future to have quorum in the Assembly and in Serbia, then they have a permanent, almost daily amendment of the Rules of Procedure. The estimated quorum of one-third of the MPs will not be enough because in the meantime DOS has lost eight Social Democrats, which the Supreme Court finally returned to Vuk Obradovic; therefore, the quorum must be 70 MPs; when the Vojvodjans leave, the quorum will be 50 MPs; at the departure of so on. Sandzaklia, the quorum will be 40. Thus, at the end of the quorum, it will be 20 MPs of the Democratic Party, provided that they are not excluded from it that morning. From the above, it turns out that the Soviet Union will not vote in favour of amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-04-0.u21763	The word has a folk MP, Aleksandar Radosavljevic, and the next is Jovan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-04-0.u21764	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Presidency, is ahead of us with a proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which carries in itself major changes and, above all, aims to maximise the efficiency of the work of the Serbian Parliament, but also to restore confidence in this high institution, in the legislative body, in the Parliament of the Republic of Serbia. Our most legislative body in Serbia, in the years of Milosevic's rule, was exposed to the greatest mockery and desecration. We need to remind ourselves of that time. The assembly was the site of the most extreme messages. From here, information is sent to the public that the borders of some virtual Serbia will be up to Karlovac, Karlobag, Ogulin, Virovitica. From here we threatened with rusty forks and spoons; from here, from this hall, from this place where the public has the most trust, we pleaded in the yangor powers against all those who thought differently, who are other religions or nations. We thought in January 2001, when DOS won and took the two-thirds majority, that the time had passed forever. I want to remind, once again, all of you, dear fellow Members of mine, of what enthusiasm, desires and hopes we have entered the congregation hall and what is left of it. The hope that we have all stepped in at the time of the transformation and the definitive return of lost faith to the Serbian parliament has been sold for the sake of party interests, for the sake of trade with the people of the former regime, declaring these people their closest partners, and yesterday's coalition partners declaring them the worst enemies. With a desire to act independently six months after the definitive victory, a political party of vague views, undefined directions and work on the principle of par-nepar, today the government of tomorrow's opposition, has contributed to raising retrograde political forces in Serbia and seeing its chance and hope. (President: Mr. Radosavljevic, please return to the agenda topic. ) Such political behaviour has contributed to the fact that here, using the Rules of Procedure, we have those again, we thought, "forgotten images", that we have again the most vulgar comments, that we are looking again at water spilling, microphone rips and all kinds of nonsense that are not suitable for congregation sessions. We have often had opportunities to listen from here to recitations, announcements of political gatherings around Serbia. They're from here to the former president, and now to The Hague prisoner, the send is gone. They have been submitted, we must never forget, the amendments that will be recorded in the annals of the assembly sessions on the ground floor. All of this was intended to send a clear message to the public and show that nothing for Yotu has changed better in Serbia, and that this power cannot be praised much, and that all in Serbia are the same. The DOS, and DS as its member, will not allow further desecration of parliament and active action to bring Serbia back to the Middle Ages. That definitely stops today, and that's what we're getting in the way of. From Serbian citizens, we were given the mandate at the end of 2000 to introduce order in the Serbian state, to form all significant institutions on the principles that exist in all normalised democratic states; that is what we will do, whether someone likes it or not. We will make order in Serbia's parliament. The proposal for this Rules of Procedure has a foothold in the Constitution, not only in Article 82, as stated in the reasoning, but also in Article 80, which literally says, "The National Assembly decides (I stress - decides) by majority of the votes in the session attended by most of the total number of MPs, if the Constitution does not provide for a special majority". Therefore, the constitutional basis exists - this is because of those uninformed founders - because it is clear that most must exist only in the event of a vote, or decision, and the proposal of this Rules of Procedure respects that obligation by the day of the vote. Parliament's president will, following the end of the debate in principle, schedule a decision-making day, and then it is necessary for the meetings to be attended by 126 and more MPs. If we compare other countries' experiences, let's say Germany and their Bundestags, we also don't need a half majority to work. In many other countries, the main discussions are held on committees or committees, and final sessions are dedicated to the final act of decision-making. Those who dispute such a proposal must make it clear to the public that one truth is that meetings with a third of MPs will be far less than meetings where most of the total number of MPs are needed. The papers are also contained in the work on more rigorous sanctioning the inappropriate behaviour of MPs, so those who wish to bring primitiveism into Parliament will have to face greater penalties, which will cost them this time 90 days of absence from the assembly benches. So, this proposal by the Rules of Procedure, once again, to speed up the work of the Serbian Parliament, to restore dignity and trust in our highest legislative body, and to definitely root out of Serbia's political life primitiveism, negligentness, ignorance, language of hate and evil. Democratic Party MPs, within the ruling DOS group, will be happy to vote for the proposed changes to the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-04-0.u21765	I thank the MP Radosavljevic. People's MP Zarko Obradovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-04-0.u21766	I advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 98 - offensive terms relating to the parliamentary group and to the president of our parliamentary group Slobodan Milosevic. I must tell you, the assembly majority liked it or not, that the assembly majority was responsible for Parliament's work. And what Serbian citizens think about the work of parliament, this has been shown in a public opinion survey: parliament has been assessed as a unit by Serbian citizens. The second thing, you say -- at the time of Milosevic -- there was both dignity and tolerance. and the possibility of the Messengers speaking. [[elevator in the O.R.]] Remember, we haven't changed the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly long ago. At that time, every MP had the right to speak for 10 minutes, and the president of the parliamentary group three times that; 250 MPs - two and a half thousand minutes, and now all MPs have the right to speak for 300 minutes. So eight times less. Remember that every MP had the right to submit amendments to the bill. In 1997, the Democratic Party submitted 1,350 amendments to the Bill on Local Self-Government, with contents that some MPs must be ashamed of and lectured. Remember that 2,500 amendments were made on a proposal on the fate list of "Politics". Probably to keep the policy safe, if the Germans and Croats bought it today. Remember, sometimes you give a lecture about what happened. Now there is a ban on speaking in this congregation; the more restrictive, the better. What Serbian citizens think about it, you'll see on June 28th, at a rally that makes SPS; you'll see.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-04-0.u21767	I find that there is no violation of Article 98, since the previous speaker, MP Radosavljevic, did not say anything offensive about the members of your party. The word is made by MP Jovan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-04-0.u21768	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must admit that I am as a man, and above all as a National MP, astounded by the amendment and addition of the Rules of Procedure of the Republic of Serbia. Human imagination creates all kinds of things, so, let's just say, my Lozniks are so skilled they know how to put an egg on a real metal horseshoe without busting that egg. Others, who are more skillful, have also learned the raven to speak. The only thing that this raven has in store for us people's MPs is that no one limits his time as he speaks, and you have witnessed, you have seen it on television, that the raven and how he can speak. I am also amazed that you are proposing something that I could not have imagined existed, which is that with one third of the MPs present can be decided on the fate of a country and a nation. Although you will tell me that is not true, I remind you, all of you DOS gentlemen, while you were the opposition talking about the essence of democracy being in the debate, so I ask you - how, gentlemen, since you represent the supposed majority of the Serbian people in this House, you will decide if you have no patience or if you listen to opposition MPs, who and how can I make very reasoned remarks, proposals or suggestions about yours, as a rule of criminal law. For the third time in parliamentary democracy, which came with the DOS, we are changing the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, and each time we are increasingly denying the rights of MPs. You know, gentlemen, in the future, as a full-time MP in the National Assembly, I would have to or should have Mrs. Natasa Mić as my employer, who has the right to punish me when I say something to her or her colleagues in the National Assembly, which has the right to take away my word or to prevent me from speaking, which has the right to exclude me from further work in the National Assembly. I may have been a man, as an expert, and accepted that Mrs. Micic, as a charming lady, would also be an employer, but in a company she set up herself, not in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I believe you DOS think the same way. You know, my mental set is such that even if I were in one of the DOS parties, I couldn't accept such a restrictive orientation compared to the MPs. What is more, than taking up office as MPs in the National Assembly if someone under his discretion has prevented me from participating in the work of the National Assembly for 90 days. On the other hand, you're forcing me to be there, to give you most of it, when you want to vote the laws that we're not at all human beings, as people's representatives, we're talking about. What exactly is that for, gentlemen? The only explanation I can have is that that one-third is actually a number that shows what the real support of the people is to DOS; well, God forbid you have one-third of the support, because if you had one, you would already call the election today. Therefore, I call upon you, gentlemen, in your mind, no one has burned until dawn, and I tell you, when the Socialists come back to power, they won't change this Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-04-0.u21769	I thank the People's MP Todorovic. The People's Messenger Pal Shandor has the word, and the following is the messenger of the people, Vladimir Dobrosavljevic, declared for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-04-0.u21770	Dear colleagues, I think we are having a very sensitive debate today, when it is necessary to make a very important distinction between what is called parliamentary destruction and parliamentary obstruction; they are not the same. Parliamentary obstruction by all means is allowed, and I don't think parliamentary destruction is allowed; it casts out parliament mockery and turns it contrary to its very nature, transforms it into a being that is contrary to it. The destruction is annihilation and destruction and it is not allowed in parliament, and obstruction is an obstruction, a delay in all, otherwise allowed, parliamentary means of procedure. These amendments to the Rules of Procedure, which we are now forced to do, that is, for the third time, are intended to make this fine distinction between parliamentary destruction and parliamentary obstruction, to see who those who are the builders of the game are, I said there are many in this room, and who are those who are the breakers of the game - there are them in this room, they were in different parties, and they have this task to break the game; they have done it, I must admit, sometimes very successfully and very well. But everything that is parliamentary life, and what's supposed to be, has its limits. Parliament cannot play and move the border of freedom to infinity. He has to stick to some basic principles. So what we're going to change now is, of course, and because we have a situation, let's not insult our colleagues, that one part of the position sometimes turns into an opposition. I often don't know if we're a position or if we're an opposition; from the majority that's almost two-thirds we come into a situation that has a few fewer majority, and we're in a situation where that strange, I mean very successful coalition of 19 parties works. Instead of saying that it's a miracle that something like that works, we're in a position to have this kind of debate - whether our Rules of Procedure is democratic enough or not. Otherwise, let me just say a few more words about concrete solutions. I think it's a good thing that the days of the assembly are set exactly, because that allows all of us to plan our weekly schedule. It does not restrict the MPs, but it allows us to know which days we are free and which days we can count on the sessions, and how this and what procedure is going to take place. That means - from now on anyone who accepts the task of the MP knows that he must sit in the Assembly on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays. I think it's also good that Monday and Friday are reserved for the board meetings, as this strengthens the function of the board. They have the opportunity to work not in a time-press, in a time-scraper, but wet and slow. It would be even more desirable than this situation, which we now have in the Assembly, that the function of the committee be strengthened, as is the case in some other parliaments, that, let's say, the committees have the opportunity to examine candidates for ministers before they become ministers, that those amendments adopted on boards are not subject to vote in the plural itself, etc. I think then our parliamentary life would be much more serious on the one hand, and on the other hand much more professional, because competent debates would be held in places that are intended for such a thing. Look, let's just say, just the Foreign Affairs Committee of Congress. His role is very serious, unlike, say, our parliamentary committees. Therefore, it is good to know exactly when the committees will be sitting and not to be in collegiate with the days when the assembly is sitting in the tide. Another newspaper or other problem that often stands out here is this quorum of one-third. Of course, she's close to me, and that can be confirmed by the former president of the assembly, the more radical idea I've presented. I was more radical here, I said, and I suggested that the principle debate does not require quorum. Why? It takes a quorum like the Constitution says - to decide. And that's our 126 quorum when you need a decision. Please, the assembly speaker is for everyone to come out and talk as much as they want, but not to force those who don't want to - to listen to him. Therefore, in other parliaments, the world is also MPs in their jobs, but they really don't have the obligation to listen to who they don't want. In this way, you would avoid an entire series of incident situations in this congregation. Because this close contact between different and impatient political options would not be, it would be avoided. Therefore, what is important is that this quorum of one third at the end is not necessary, but it is kept in this proposal and it is very important to say that no MP group, other than DOS, has one third alone. We need to be more cooperative and some minimum MPs would have to come in so the session could take place at all, although I think it would be more logical if he wasn't here. It takes 126 MPs to decide, and I think everyone who says this way is going to bring down what is otherwise guaranteed by the Constitution is wrong. He'll be right if we don't make that decision when we vote in the O.R. Further, voting days -- well, in almost all parliaments, precisely because of the time to be predicted, are set days for voting. In some parliaments, the law is read on three occasions, in the first, second, third, and a principle debate is held once, for the second time, then a debate in the details for the third time, and the days for the vote are one. I really don't see what's problematic about it that one day will be decided to vote when it will vote on the law in principle or on the law in general, or in detail, because it is usually parliamentary practice in other parts of the world. Therefore, these changes, which are now said to be an attack on parliamentaryism, that they are an attack on democracy, are in fact some of the basic principles and fundamental postulates that we have tried to apply to our own situation, adapting to the reality that we have. In some parliaments, the situation is even more drastic and we should not forget that we are elected from the list, rather than by the majority principle. The Rules of Procedure for MPs elected by the majority principle, by their name and last name, are somewhat different from the Rules of Procedure for MPs elected from the list. In some Western democracies, the owner of all votes is actually the head of the parliamentary group, if the vote is from the list. The head of the parliamentary group shall use those votes, taking into account only those, or subtracting from the total number, only those votes when an MP explicitly disagrees with a decision. Therefore, we are not in a situation, although we have been elected from the list, that the heads of the parliamentary groups are the owners of our votes. Generally speaking, what do we want? We want to achieve this that the Assembly, which has a bad image anyway, with the right, among citizens, allows those who are to obstruct all legal means of obstruction, but to prevent parliamentary destruction, if possible. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-04-0.u21771	I thank the People's MP, Pal Shandor, and I'm setting a break by 15.00 hours. Please be here at 15.00 hours to continue our work. All right, 15 o'clock and five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-04-0.u21772	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session in the afternoon. Please insert your cards into the MPs to determine the quorum. I find that we have a quorum to work with and continue a unique search. The People's MP Vladimir Dobrosavljevic has the word, followed by the National MP Tomislav Panajotovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-04-0.u21773	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is no doubt in the essence of every government and every parliamentary majority attempt to make their march through the institutions, as well as their authority make it as simple as possible. So to try to make that time period, whether the government was given to it by voters or it usurped itself, the government ruled as painlessly and in some way as easily as possible for itself. But with representative democracies, it's a slightly different case. Why? In essence, representative democracies are controls, parliamentary control primarily by the opposition's ruling majority. What's the point of the story? Mostly when you opt for one of the ideological and or idea concepts in the formation of one of these Rules of Procedure, then you have to stick to it until the end. It is no doubt that the tradition of Anglo-Saxon parliaments or Anglo-Saxon Rules of Procedure was the main one that affected some of the items of amendments and the addition of this new Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. First of all, I think of the fact that the quorum reduction needed to take part in the debate and the special day that separates the Assembly from deciding, the amendments to certain legal solutions and in general. However, it also did not go to the end consistently. Why do I say that? First of all, from one simple fact, in most of the Anglo-Saxon parliaments, and first of all, I am talking about the two dominant ones, which are the English and US Congress, in addition to the day that is set aside for the vote, in addition to not requiring quorum, there is one day a week each week as Parliament is held to discuss and discuss the work of the ship. In this case, therefore, a more consistently respected concept. On the other hand, it should be fair to admit one more thing, where Anglo-Saxon parliaments are, and their rules of procedure, which were obviously an example of this Rules of Procedure, are mostly two-party systems, and this is especially true for English; there are certain representatives of the liberal party who are still not so dominant. In such situations, it is really easy to carry out a kind of control, a parliamentary government. However, for most continental parliaments, in which the multi-party system is mainly based on multi-party participation, more than two, more than a bipartisan system in parliaments, such a type of control is not possible. I do not think it is wise to refer to the experience of the parliaments of those countries that have grown more than two centuries of liberal democracy, or parliamentary traditions. I believe and think that I am not alone in this opinion, that simply Serbia, we must be aware of it, there is no developed democratic tradition, no developed parliamentary experience, so it must from the beginning and consistently repeat all those lessons that developed countries have been through more than two centuries ago. In this regard, in order to further institutionalise parliament's work, in order to establish it more among Serbian citizens, it was necessary therefore to leave existing provisions requiring all MPs to attend meetings of the Serbian Parliament. So leave the quorum that existed so far on the one hand, and leave the possibility that MPs and MP groups in mutual persuasion, in front of the public, in the mutual exchange of arguments of elections for those legal solutions that they consider important and that they try to convince their colleagues. The deep most problematic issue in these amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is the fact that the future rules of procedure try to introduce a rather unfortunate category; this is that parliamentary, i.e. representative democracy is measured by economic criteria, by market principles. No efficiency, no productivity can be an argument in Parliament's work. Economic categories cannot be an argument for the work of representative democracy and arguments for the work of parliament. Why? Because here, both in theory and in practice, we 250, we are a state and we are a people, representatives of the people. That's why it is the invention of representative democracy. As such, we are simple, and this is the basic concept of all liberal democracies, free to carry out their mandate. When we say free, it means first of all one basic thing, which is that we can do our mandate in the way we think it is possible and how we want it to be. When I say so, it means that one MP, if he considers it and if it is his political concept, doesn't have to show up a single day in this room. He's the only one who has the right to punish voters in the election and no one else. In this way, we are turning parliament into a kind of bureaucratized body, turning MPs into officials of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. What's that supposed to mean? It is not the direct calling of the Government of the Republic of Serbia as it is, but as it advocates. It rests on the very economic categories I spoke about earlier: it is claimed that we will be successful in parliament as much as we are productive. It's simply not true, nor can it be so. We are not constantly working here because we are constantly employed here as bureaucrats of the Assembly and we are not obliged to earn our salaries by sitting and voting for a number of amendments and voting for a number of laws. It's not the job of the people's representatives. Whatever we are, as much as we are in conflict with each other, as different as we are, as slow as we are in Parliament, he is as such a representative of all Serbian citizens and no one has the right to make him a firm, successful or less unsuccessful. Parliament is successful to that end if the foundations of a political society are developed. We have the fact that the political foundations of Serbia's society are not sufficiently developed. That's the problem. It is not a problem to improve, as stated here, the efficiency of Parliament's work, but to come from pre-political to political society. In political society, ladies and gentlemen, it comes by developing the entire institutions of parliamentary democracy; through several election cycles, parties representing a particular concept are profiled and voters are supported. Only in this way is Parliament's efficiency achieved, only in this way do voters get the right representatives in their representatives in parliaments and no other way. The solution to this crisis is not a conversion, not a kind of diabolical or version where the government is controlled by parliament, which has been elected to control the government, but is only a solution to the institutionalisation of the political system in Serbia through new elections and through representative representatives of Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-04-0.u21774	The People's MP Tomislav Panajotovic has the word, followed by MP Zivko Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-04-0.u21775	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, please...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-04-0.u21776	MP, excuse me for a moment, I have an intervention - tossing MPs out of the O.R. on the report from the Administrative Committee and working arrangements. When the report of the Administrative Board is delivered to the MPs, at the same time I will inform the National Assembly that a report has been delivered to them and I will give the speaker of the Committee and those MPs who have issued an opinion. I would pray that next time all those who think that the procedure is not followed by the word; they will receive it, and they will comment. Excuse me, MP, once again, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-04-0.u21777	I'll try to remember how I started. Imagine, fellow MPs, that I am from this place in the front row to this pay phone traveled two hours. Imagine that this is the Bible and I start reading it now, until I faint or you faint. Of course, Mrs. Comic is very wise, so she'll say I broke the Rules of Procedure. I'll fight back: yes, ma'am, but I'm calling for practice in Japan, Great Britain, Tungusia, Zimbabwe and so on. Fortunately, anything in these countries could represent the obstruction or destruction of parliament has been regulated by their rules of procedure, as has been regulated by ours. A colleague who spoke before me here has made his views very clear, but there is an even more striking attitude. We have a Rules of Procedure on the work of the Serbian Parliament, and it is the easiest to reach 20, 30, 81, 103 members and so on, but the Rules of Procedure also have an article 217, where the entire Rules of Procedure has been deliberately laid. Paragraph 1 of Article 217 states very clearly: "The emissary is obliged to participate in the work of the Assembly". Of course, he reads the paper if he wants to do it, but I think it's more polite to read the newspaper under the bench in the O.R. than to read during the session; contrary to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure that I mentioned, they enjoy a run-in at the restaurant. All in all, all that is provided for here in our Rules of Procedure is based on that part of our Rules of Procedure and all the amendments and additions that are now proposed are based on that. It's often heard here that most of them have to secure the quorum. As a lawyer, (and I can say that I wasn't bad, as the man whose name we're not going to mention) I've never seen anyone call to practice as a source of law. Now, for example, let's say that the practice, like it did in the Spanish Parliament, is that someone comes in here with a gun and starts shooting at the MPs. Imagine a parliament in Thailand, where MPs are counting on each other with their fists and so on; and that's practice. If I were to attack one of my dear colleagues here, it's not meant for the Rules of Procedure, they'll punish me, but I'll appeal to practice. Practice, gentlemen, there is no norm here. Practice is an irrelevant case until it is translated into the Rules of Procedure, and it makes it very clear what to do and how to do. In addition, the respect of the Rules of Procedure is seen in the following: one of the heads of Parliament and our colleague spoke here about us being pawns, (I don't know if he used that term) of the Government. I've never had a worse insult than that. It's possible that someone can get out of here, since we have our friends who have a very rich dictionary, to show that someone is a leprechaun, a thief, a maniac, and so on; it doesn't touch me. It can be very offensive when one head of the parliamentary group says they're sitting here -- pawns of the government, the government moves their little finger and says, "change your Rules of Procedure to have a corresponding quorum, and we -- the race, so we change the Rules of Procedure." I think that Mrs Natasa Micic, as president, made a big mistake not to give a warning to a man whose name I won't mention, he is smooth here, the nice one probably has a better dictionary than what he said here - who insulted the entire DOS parliamentary group in a way that is absolutely inappropriate. To bring an end to the discussion; when we call on the rules of procedure in some democratic countries or something that only history needs to bring, then we must say in which rules of procedure, in which country, in which parliament is foreseen what is foreseen. Without that, any statement from this speaker and any attack on the proposed Rules of Procedure, referring to imaginary practice, has no effect whatsoever. Before me, the gentleman mentioned the practice of the English Parliament, and we have practice in Hungarian and some other parliaments where, when it comes to the assembly majority or when it comes to quorum at all, there are 10, 20 or 30% of MPs to attend, but one day it is determined when to vote on what is proposed. Therefore, the the thesis that is spreading here and which it wants to give the impression that the DOS parliamentary group is an ordinary toy in the hands of the government not only is it politically incorrect, although it can serve as political propaganda, it is absolutely incorrect. DOS has proposed to the government that this point be placed on the agenda and it is now here, with the right to have each of you obstruct or destruction, in a way that Mr. Pal Shandor explained beautifully. What is the obstruction in this House that is allowed? It's that for example, our friends, whose name we won't mention come out and each one of them announces their session in some kind of haustor, I don't know, constantly maintain these radical, pardon, party sessions. Now a colleague, whose name I won't mention, has also announced his own gathering and so on. When more specifically studying our stenograms, he will see how obstruction is allowed by using 90% of the time in some to propagate their parties, to criticise the government without arguments or with arguments and so on. What's destruction? That's what Mr. Pal Shandor was talking about, and I wouldn't add anything to that. Thank you very much, I suggest we adopt the amendments to this Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-04-0.u21778	The word is from MP Zivko Selakovic, followed by MP Vera Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-04-0.u21779	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there are a lot of objections to the proposal for a decision to amend the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. In this year and a half, the Rules of Procedure, three or four times, and the effect of none; on the contrary, the meetings of the Assembly are taking longer and harder, and therefore they have cost our citizens more and more because they are financing it through taxes and other taxes. As an MP in the last term, (and also to say that even then I was an opposition MP, so I'm not going to support the Rules of Procedure of the Last Call), I have something to say. The time of the debate was 10 minutes, and there was also a so-called second round that the MP wanted to comment on after the first discussion. At that time, the sessions lasted much shorter, and I have to underline that it was very rare, or that almost never occurred to a lack of quorum. Obviously, this is not about the Rules of Procedure; first of all, when it comes to quorum, in this circus, what our sessions of Parliament look like, the causes of the ruling coalition should be sought in other problems, first of all, in the problem that has arisen itself, as the congregation's majority, and should not be blamed for opposition parties, that they are guilty of quorum. To point out, the ruling coalition can hold assembly sessions even if no opposition MP comes, because let's not forget that the DOS in the elections won a two-thirds majority in parliament. In view of the time for the discussion that belongs to me, let me also refer to the text of the proposal for a decision to amend the Rules of Procedure, on which the parliamentary group of the Serbian Unity Party has a lot of grudges and objections. Among other things, I will list only a few members of this motion for a decision that are unacceptable to the parliamentary group, which are, for example, Articles 2, 4, 5, 8, 11, 16, 19 and not to list them further. Some of them should be changed entirely, and some should be complemented, i.e. attitudes in them. It is illogical for the Administrative Board to decide on the infringement of the Rules of Procedure. So, you need to interrupt the assembly session and wait for the Committee's decision or, worse, if the Committee is sitting when there is no session, the decision has already been made. Furthermore, the punishment of MPs by way of a 90-day session -- that would mean almost a year, given how many days the Assembly is working effectively in that year. The quorum of one-third of the MPs means that out of 250 MPs, about 83 MPs are sufficient, which, according to the SSJ parliamentary group's assessment, is unacceptable. We therefore propose that, in order to be better, a 100% quorum would be provided, only the president of the Assembly who gives the word and MP who takes the word to discuss. The most inappropriate thing is for the vote to be held at the end of the debate on all points -- it can happen, as our sessions continue, that the vote should take place after one month when it is forgotten even who discussed it, without talking about what the MP was saying. Because of this short list from the unacceptable proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the Assembly of the Soviet Union cannot support or vote in favour of such a proposal for a Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-04-0.u21780	The word has a folk MP, Vera Markovic, and after that, MP Joca Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-04-0.u21781	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Social Democratic Party has been very pleased to accept the decision to amend the Rules of Procedure and to allow a way out of this blockade of parliament, above all, given that in parliament we have an entire parliamentary group that is resorting to, how well counterpart Pal Shandor explained, the destruction of parliament. So it uses very unusual methods and methods that do not fall within the scope of parliamentary practice, but rather something that cannot be called a decent term. It's definitely a destruction of parliamentary work. To get out of that blockade, the Social Democratic Party agrees that we have to have some restrictive provisions, more restrictive than ever, for these forms of behavior. We also agree with the amendments concerning the reduction of MPs' obligations, both in the duration of the working week and in terms of reducing the quorum to the working quorum for debate, such as in most of the world's parliaments. We have also proposed such an amendment to the Rules of Procedure in the previous attempt to make one more appropriate Rules of Procedure. However, it was not accepted and there was no mood for it. Because of this blockade of parliament, such a mood has been created and I am pleased that something we have proposed before is accepted. So, for the debate, we definitely don't need to have a full quorum, and it certainly is to decide. If we had allowed this discharge of MPs and at the same time the restrictive provisions for non-parliamentary behaviour, I do not think that it would be necessary in that case to make a very unpopular decision to take the seats of MPs, it would have already been settled in Parliament itself, which is also natural, because it is about MPs. After the application of this Rules of Procedure, if it is adopted with the little changes we propose, I don't think it will be necessary to discipline the Members in such an inappropriate way. The incomparability of such a decision, this is now a small depression, it is seen that it is widely estimated as such, because it still cannot be applied and probably will not be applied at all, because it is essentially unapplicable, outside parliament, and it has been made. So, I advocate that the discipline of MPs and the work of the entire parliament are verified in Parliament itself, through business provisions, through the work of parliamentary clubs and through our mutual relations. In that sense, the Social Democratic Party supports these changes to the Rules of Procedure. However, apart from the adoption of a large package of reform laws, which awaits the whole country, because all processes must be launched, economic, financial and all others, we have yet to face another serious task. It's the construction of parliamentaryism. All public opinion polls over the past ten years show that parliament is the least respected institution. At the same time, the poor reputation of parliament brings poor reputation to parliamentarians. So, the role of parliamentarian, the role of MPs, is not sufficiently evaluated by the rules of procedure so far, and once this Rules of Procedure has been amended, it is kind of unthinking. What's this about? We agree that debate does not require quorum and is so in most countries in the world, in their parliaments. However, a decision requires a full quorum; that is what we agree on. What bothers us is that what we consider to be completely unreasonable - therefore, making a decision in principle and then just voting on amendments without any argument of these amendments. For more serious laws, we have 500 amendments and there is no MP who is able to have such a concentration to remember the full argument for 500 amendments, to keep it in mind, and that after a week, when the voting day is scheduled, based on that argument that was said long ago, if he was in the O.R. and if he attended the debate, then apply it in his decision. I think it devises the role of MPs, it comes down to a voting machine, and for us, it's unacceptable. When there's a debate in the world, it's meant to be a debate in principle. Debate and debate are in principle synonyms and that's what this is all about. I have had the opportunity to see with the OSCE working group dealing with the development of parliamentaryism in countries in transition a comparative review of different Rules of Procedure; I have not seen such a Rules of Procedure in that provision, therefore, that the amendments that are not at this point are being reasoned and that we see what this is about. Definitely, the Social Democratic Party advocates that amendments are being explained to strengthen its function, that it can make full decisions, that it knows exactly which proposal is behind and if it does not stand behind any proposal to know which argument it did not stand for. In that sense, I ask you to look at our proposal for an amendment, to look at the careful explanation we have given, and I would be very happy for you to accept it, not only because of the Social Democratic Party, but because of the development of parliamentaryism, and that is why we are here.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-04-0.u21782	The president of the parliamentary group, SJ Dragan Markovic, spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-04-0.u21783	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when I entered this hall, I never dreamed that this assembly would constantly discuss the Rules of Procedure. Perhaps, but for the Rules of Procedure to be in office not as voters, but as citizens of Serbia. But it happened the other way around. If this proposed Rules of Procedure is voted upon, there is no longer any parliamentary democracy in this assembly, there will be a demonstration of the force of the DOS majority. (loud from the O.R.): Don't talk. I'm talking to you, sir, who spent two years in this room, taking a nap and never called to discuss it, except to vote and press a green or red button. Please don't throw away, so I can finish my discussion. Perhaps you will learn something smart today and hear how Serbs in Serbia live today. The Soviet Union believes that today we should have discussed, instead of the Rules of Procedure, enrolling in schools, asking the government to reduce the cost of tuition reaching 160,000 dinars, given that students' parents have very low salaries or remain unemployed. We also thought that this Rules of Procedure, and you didn't respect the old one in one article that says the Kosovo and Metohija committee is being formed. To this day, this has been an irrelevant subject for you. It is known that our brothers from Cosmet live here in Serbia, as well as those who have stayed to live on Cosmet -- that they have no income, that they have no place to support their children. What's their future? They can't wait anymore. There's been roadblocks these days. I think this is going to happen more and more, because instead of representing the Serbs in the Republic Assembly as representatives of them, we haven't had a chance to discuss such a point of the agenda. It is constantly mentioned by the European Parliament and how it is done in the parliaments of Europe. In no Parliament in Europe, ladies and gentlemen, it has happened that in one day MPs raise their salaries and that on the same day pensioners will be reduced. It never happened anywhere. That's a fact. That's what happened with us in Serbia. I felt that in this assembly today we should discuss health care, discuss instead of the Rules of Procedure, why they were taken away from doctors to issue prescriptions. Not only did we devalue the doctors, but we also burdened the patients to go to one doctor and have them go to another doctor for a prescription. (loud from the O.R.): That's not true. Yes, ma'am, it's true. You DOS haven't been informed, but that's why there's a roadblock in your town, ma'am that you keep throwing away. The villagers in your town are asking for the price of the raspberries to be decent, so they can live off their work. Instead of going to your town, you're in Belgrade. But they're waiting for you. Don't throw it away, it's not cultural. We with the SS are constructive and we've never been tossing you. I once told you to go home and cook your husband's soup, and now I'm telling you to go and solve... Also, ladies and gentlemen, great powers are given to the President of the Assembly. What kind of authority? Let me remind you, the President of the Assembly is the first among the equals. The President of the Assembly will receive, if you adopt this radical Rules of Procedure, the right to cast whoever he wants. It's like we're her students, like in first grade primary school -- you get a theme to write about your mom, and if you mention your dad, then you get a unit. This is where it will happen that if I mention peasants, and it is not the topic of the agenda, but the topic of the agenda is empowerment and the greater the functions of the President of the Assembly, I will get a warning. Also, ladies and gentlemen, it is said in one article that after the discussion is concluded in principle and in particular, the legislator has the right to address the proposed law once again. How will he know all the amendments submitted by the opposition, if not the DOS, and you can't stand the amendments, how will he know what we of the opposition have been saying? Since it is known that you DOS know how to speak well, because he has the final word, the people will say, well done, this is the law we need; but only at the moment of his speech. When the law is in place and when it needs to be implemented, then it will happen as it happened in the Sword, peasants will go out into the streets, as is happening in the city where the lady who keeps throwing herself, as is happening in southern Serbia. That's the kind of problem we're gonna have. We of the SSJ felt that the function of the MPs was to discuss the citizens of Serbia here, to discuss where the people who are left without work tomorrow, what are the new small and medium-sized enterprises, who is the founder of these enterprises and where these people's money to form those companies if they are out of work and if they are not creditworthy, if they have to give as an intubulation only their own apartment, which is worth 30,000 marks. What is such a capable expert in Yugoslavia, and there are large numbers of them, to do tomorrow? Also, I thought that instead of this Rules of Procedure, we were discussing young people in this congregation. Currently in Serbia there are 24,000 unemployed with university diplomas. What's the motive of those students who are now going to school, what's their motive for learning, and what's their motive for getting into college when they don't have a future. I thought it was being discussed in this congregation. Also, this Rules of Procedure empowers the President of the Assembly to appoint assembly committees. Where is it, ladies and gentlemen? Why is there a board president in the first place? Not if a board meeting is necessary, the president of the assembly has the right to schedule a committee session. That's not right. Ladies and gentlemen, the President of the Assembly has the authority, the discretionary right to remove someone from the session, if someone came out culturally for a pay phone and talked about pensioners, about our parents, about people who are half sick, about farmers who don't know what the price of cereals is. Ladies and gentlemen, that never happened in Serbia. The harvest is in 20 days, and they don't know what the price of the grain is. I suggested this morning, and now I propose to you from DOS and the chairman of the Agriculture Committee, who has not scheduled a single session, to request an extraordinary session of the Serbian Parliament with one item on the agenda and to propose that the price of cereals be 15 dinars. That's what the villagers who always went to the election and the ones that you and we always called for. Don't just do it in an election campaign, but do it when they need us when they need us. The Soviet Union will not vote in favour of the proposed Rules of Procedure on the work that is taking away the right of MPs. Dear ladies and gentlemen, no one burned until dawn. The next day, you will be the opposition, and you will be in a situation in which the opposition is now in parliament. The SS has always been constructive, when something was good in this room we voted for such proposals. Unfortunately, such proposals in the last 19 months have been very small. We advise you to return this Rules of Procedure, to accept who was last, because it is restrictive, and it takes away democratic rights from the MPs of the Republic. If this is adopted, Serbian citizens, to know that MPs no longer have any rights, nor can they fight for you, and who is the biggest culprit -- DOS majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-04-0.u21784	You have been presented with a report by the Administrative Committee on the examination of the proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the amendments submitted on the proposal for that decision. Members of the Committee of People's MPs Dusan Budisin, Petar Cvetkovic and Sladjan Mijalovic were appointed at the session of the Management Committee of Opinions. I ask, do the MPs, who have singled out their opinion, want a word? There is the word of the Messenger of the people Dusan Budishin, then the messenger of the people, Petar Cvetkovic. Does MP Sladjan Mijlovic also want a word? No, I don't. All right. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-04-0.u21785	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, as is the proposal missing, is the same procedure as the missing; I point first of all to the violation of the Rules of Procedure, which is Article 75, which says that after the end of the search, the committee submits a report to the National Assembly containing opinions and proposals from the Committee. The Committee shall determine the notifiers, and then, at the request of a member of the Committee, his opinion, which he has delivered at the sitting, shall be presented in the report of the Committee and shall have the right to explain it at the beginning of the search on the proposal for an appropriate act at the meeting of the National Assembly. This is where the search began, the report was later delivered, and then the word was given to us, who had issued an opinion on the board and voted against it. So much for transparency and legality. That's the first one. At the board meeting, DSS MPs said and announced that they would vote against this proposal; we are based on the following -- firstly, this is about the adoption of amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure by an urgent procedure, article 158 explicitly says when it can, and it is bypassed. It is said, among other things, that only when issues and relations are regulated due to circumstances which could not be predicted, and the adoption of an emergency law could result in adverse consequences, etc., the legislator is obliged to state in writing the adverse consequences resulting from the adoption of the law under emergency procedure. What the promoter did -- the proposer summed it up in one sentence and said that justice is an urgent process "of a more efficient and rational work of the National Assembly in the coming period, in which increased legislative activity is expected". Ladies and gentlemen, increased legislative activity is characteristic of every country in transition, including us. So it's nothing new. I mean, there was no reason for this change to be resolved by an emergency procedure. Other general acts, of course the Rules of Procedure, can be passed, but it should be answered by circumstances, in fact, what are the circumstances that could not be foreseen? He did not answer this question either. It's done randomly and casually. So that's one of the reasons why we're going to vote against it. Furthermore, the amendments to the Rules of Procedure have been experienced and interpreted as a typical daily-political act. Whatever it desires, first of all, is characterized by inconsistencies. Why - the content itself says that it wants to allow the majority to maintain the quorum provided for in the current Rules of Procedure, which, as we know, is 126 MPs. So 126 MPs are quorum, and it should be achieved by MPs, or political parties, who support the government, or a legislative proposal under discussion. What is to be imposed - that the artificial majority should move in case a political party does not support the law. They'd turn out to be funny in the eyes of the citizens, if they were to sit here and listen to the discussion of the law, which any political party, any of them, is simply saying that they think they can't adopt, that they're against him and that no amendments can make him. That's exactly what this is all about. What is now obtained by this way and by a new proposal -- you get that 84 number, and now it's going to be magical; it was also 138, when it was claimed to be a comfortable majority and that without the votes of those parties who are not willing to treat the government as commander, that number could always be provided, so we saw that it couldn't. I ask you then -- where is the indiscipline: is it with those MPs who won't sit in the hall when discussing a law that won't support or those who support the government; since this number of 131 has melted, and we have seen that it can't even get 126, then we have come wisely to 84. We will now practically come to the situation that one silent and obedient assembly of 84 MPs will sit in session and thus, of course, prove its value, participation in the work of parliament, and will not come under the influence of some politburo, who will seek medical confidence for the absence of the MPs. I don't know what the procedure looks like, though, 'cause I got out of high school a long time ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-04-0.u21786	Mr. Budishin, I'm warning you of a time-out.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-04-0.u21787	Just two more sentences; we have experienced this change as a death of parliamentaryism. Why -- because the three-degree work in lawmaking has now come down to two degrees. In this way parliament is completely demoted, especially the MPs, and those who do not want to be the government's instrument, but think that in normal countries parliament is still higher than the government. The government is just one high-ranking body. However, it works transparently, but not always, and brings reform laws, which are reformable only for someone; for the people of Serbia -- no. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-04-0.u21788	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Petar Cvetkovic. I would remind you that in the course of the afternoon work under Article 160(2), the National Assembly has adopted a proposal that unless the committees have submitted a report within a specified deadline of the draft law may be carried out in the National Assembly without reports from the Committee. Therefore, it is, in that way, a good will for Members of the People who have issued an opinion and for a representative of the Administrative Committee to be given a word in the course of the procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-04-0.u21789	Thank you to the President of the Assembly for your goodwill. Ladies and gentlemen, the DSS MPs have issued an opinion on the Administrative Committee and much has been said by Mr Budishin. However, given the shortness of time, I will try to say something further, although it is five minutes and too little to point out all the failures that have been given to such a Rules of Procedure, which has a small number of members, but makes it extremely difficult for MPs to work and leads to the situation in the country to practically prevent parliamentaryism and democracy. In addition to formal remarks, this is the case with regard to the mandated proposalor and the procedure in which the amendment and addition of this Rules of Procedure on the work of the Assembly can be made, there are essential reasons. And among them may be the most important in that, in a single sentence, it makes it very difficult for MPs of the National Assembly to work and brings them to the status of the government's executive body, i.e. one absurd, that the executive authority - the government of the Republic of Serbia - parliament, or the Serbian Parliament, is in a position to be persons who will only vote or verify the government's proposals. Thus, the very essence of democracy and parliamentaryism is cast out and led to absurdity. Today, on the Administrative Committee, we tried to find out who is the formal promoter of this amendment and the addition of the Rules of Procedure. As you know, you have received calls with which the Government's proposal with agenda, where amendments and additions to the current Rules of Procedure are proposed under point 1. On the Management Board of Mr Ceda Jovanovic's report, 84 MPs, the rest of the DOS, proposed their signatures to the government, and then the government put it on the agenda of this session; to find out afterwards, also on the Administrative Committee, that he is the Proposer, and what he is, it is seen from this proposal, the official MP, Mr Cedomir Jovanovic. The point is not, and it is not so important, regardless of what true confusion has been created and there is not much uncertainty, because lately the president of the DOS parliamentary group has been acting on this speaker and in this assembly as a supporter of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and it is therefore impossible to distinguish the executive from the legislative authority. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not convinced that this House is a legislative authority, nor can you give any argument to that. We can just give the opposite arguments. Here is only good what the government proposes, which advertises itself - on a good path. It is not allowed here to refer any critical tone, amendment or proposal if it criticises the government's work in any way; in that case it is unsuitable, anti-reformal, it should simply be eliminated from parliament. So it tends to be unanimity; it's in the view that everything the government proposes, without any critical possibility of contesting it, that's good, that's reform. We're witnesses, and that's what you people's representatives know best, who all these reform laws were. I remind you, the DSS parliamentary group was attacked because it did not want to give a quorum and supports the adoption of an alleged reform law, the Law amending and supplementing the Ministry Act. You know the essence of this law, an increase in the number of ministries and members of the government, i.e. the translation into the law of negotiation in a politburo called DOS Presidency; (after comments from the O.R.) of the rest of the DOS, I am correcting myself. Therefore, by not supporting such a bill, the DSS reportedly reofficing, and reform is so much more significant than the government's costs, it increases significant budget costs... (President-Time) I'll finish. Please give a warning to a gentleman who keeps throwing it away and in one sentence I'll finish it. There's nothing in the government's reform proposal. There is no reform law in this law which is next in a regular session; it is a law on violations, where the self-administrative socialist law on violations of 1989 is literally prescribed, with changes; for example, instead of the authorities for violations - magistrates, in 24 of the 28 provisions. There is no reform in a number of laws so far proposed for this parliament's adoption. (The President - Mr. Cvetkovic, it's the seventh minute, thank you and please... ) Just one more sentence - there are no reforms, and the reforms are only about acting. There's basically nothing. I'm sorry about the time-out.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-04-0.u21790	Does MP Sladjan Mijlovic want a word? No, I don't. ) Does the word wish for the rapporteur of the Committee, MP Dragan Sutanovac; president of the Committee? No, I don't. Are you answering for a word? Please, the word is by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the parliamentary group, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-04-0.u21791	Mrs. Micic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, seems to me that in these separate opinions she has actually overcome the impotence of the political concept that is in association with the parties of the former regime, rather than with the parties with whose help she came to power, she has tried to challenge the changes of the Rules of Procedure that make it impossible to block the Republic of Parliament. During the work of the Administrative Board, we heard several arguments criticising and challenging this kind of initiative. None of them are based on facts. The first and serious argument was made by one of the dignitaries who issued an opinion during the vote, contesting my right to propose amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Republic of Parliament as representative and president of the parliamentary group of DOS. Supposedly, I have no right to do so since they had not discussed this on the Administrative Committee before, nor was a broad discussion taken within the Republic of Parliament. The conversation is possible where there are two reasonable sides; where there is no reason, we are forced into this kind of behavior. I would remind you that in this type of behaviour that the DOS parliamentary group has resorted to, there is no difference in the behaviour of the DSS parliamentary group, which before the DOS parliamentary group proposed amendments and additions to the current Rules of Procedure on the work of the Republic of Parliament. If the president of the DSS parliamentary group could propose amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure on Parliament's work, then a representative of the DOS parliamentary group and a representative of any other psolanic group can do so, if there are enough MPs who support such a thing. It is a lame argument and it is the result of the infirmities of people who cannot stand up to such a serious response to the blockade of parliament that we have faced. The second objection concerns the procedure that followed the establishment of this item on the agenda of the Republic of Parliament. It is true that, as president of the DOS parliamentary group through the competent assembly services, I have sent a request to the Republic Government to include, within the framework of the agenda sent to the Republic of Parliament, the debate on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure and the debate on amendments of the Republic of Election Commission. It's our right. It is based on the Rules of Procedure and is by no means different from the rights we have used during the last year and a half of the work of the Republic of Parliament. Those whose facts were not disputed when they came to them, have no argument that could challenge this kind of initiative. The artificial majority is mentioned and the insinuation of the artificial majority through the amendments and additions of the Rules of Procedure. Most can't be artificial; she either has or isn't. Our alliance has been artificial lately, and for this reason we have decided that, regardless of the confusion that follows this kind of policy, we will separate work from work, reformers from anti-reformists, and regardless of the fact that some of today's opponents have been elected on the electoral list that we have supported as DOS, we will send a clear message to the citizens of Serbia that a political struggle is being fought within the Republic of Parliament between representatives of the former regime and our recent coalition partners, who have become much closer to them than we have, with whom they have entered the Republic Parliament. There's no legal basis for... (President - I warn you of time overrun) I accept; which on the Administrative Committee would challenge this initiative and therefore is an incorrect argument which has been made during previous discussions.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-04-0.u21792	You recognized each other, didn't you? (He speaks to the Messenger of Michael. Are you looking for a replica? Please, MP Dejan Mihajlov, president of the DOS-DSS parliamentary group. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-04-0.u21793	Dear Chairman, who falsely presents himself as head of the DOS parliamentary group, even though he is head of the parliamentary group of the rest of the DOS, we need to determine how many MPs there are I think that's the real name for that MP group. [[growls]] The second thing, the government's message to the reformed government, is that the reforms the government is carrying out over the Serbian people as test rabbits will leave great sacrifices. Parliament's adjustment to day-to-day policy needs and non-compliance with procedures I would ask you that the Rules of Procedure not only serve to punish one group of MPs, but all other MPs who interfere with the speaker as he speaks at the pay phone; so apply the Rules of Procedure. [[growls]] The DSS, I personally signed it, proposed last year changes and additions to the Rules of Procedure by treating one system of parliament's work. Here it is taken most restrictively from two systems to edit the work of parliament, so we will get a Rules of Procedure equal to those in Cuba, North Korea and all other countries known to be democratic traditions. So here, calling and bringing the DSS into contact with any other party of the rest of the DOS on this point, except for the SDP, which has a few solid amendments in the direction of preserving some dignity of this parliament, is talking about not knowing the elemental rules of democracy, parliamentaryism and building a rule of law. [[Zagor in the O.R.]] There is no "p" in this Rules of Procedure from the rule of law or "d" from democracy. Parliamentaryism is being abolished, and you will see: the next measure is the abolition of direct TV transmissions as liquids for which we have fought for all 10 years and the elimination of all that has been so far. When spoken from this pay phone, you cannot speak on behalf of 176 DOS MPs, you can speak on behalf of the rest of the DOS; the DSS will speak for itself. I would simply ask the chairman to give a future warning to those who abuse what was, for whom they received this election and who helped them. As much as you participated in these elections, so did we. Don't give in to someone else's feathers. If you're so sure of the trust that the citizens have in you, let's finally go to these elections, and measure our strength and see what your real power is. If you were so sure of what you're saying, you'd be going to the polls every two weeks; like if the Star had a strong team, she'd be playing a derby every two weeks to beat the score. So are you; if you are so strong, go to the polls every two weeks and show your strength. Don't run away from the election. Do not flee to dictatorship to secure your authority, do not adapt parliament to the needs of the government; it corresponds to parliament, not parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, with these amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure, you will end parliamentaryism in Serbia and introduce a soft dictatorship. Your responsibility is in this... (President: Mr. Michael, I'm warning you of an exaggeration of time. )......................................................................................................... And the citizens will know that they appreciate it in the next election.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-04-0.u21794	We continue a unique search on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly according to the application for word. The People's Messenger Joca Arsic has the word, and the next one declared for the word is the Messenger of the people, Miroslav Christodulo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-04-0.u21795	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, the controversy over this proposed solution has been going on for a long time. As has already been said, we have within a few months two amendments to the Rules of Procedure: first in September of last year, new today. I would agree with the opinions of individuals in the defence of this proposed text that 1/3, namely 84 MPs, are sufficient to work in principle, for debate on the proposed acts which are the topic of debate in this assembly, but that before that each MP, can speak for at least 10 minutes, that any MP can propose an amendment to the draft law, not a parliamentary group; as has already been done with these previous amendments, when the time for one parliamentary group is limited in the total time of five hours of debate. The head of the parliamentary group presented exactly how long it used to be, and how long the debates are now going on. Then it would be possible to search the debate all the proposed acts, the proposed solutions, the proposed laws. Then it's possible to separate the day they decide on such things. Since such solutions have not been made, since what has to be done has not been done, to emulate and level this system here, those who defend this practice that 1/3 is enough to conduct the debate, forget to say that in practice other debates are not limited time as restrictive as here is limited. We also had a debate on amendments, a discussion in particular: this proposed solution only comes down to the vote. I understand that, and if it's not true, I don't see any reason for any amendments to be submitted here and for that to change. Voting on amendments, and voting and debates, often know to be reduced to three minutes. If anyone is able to explain the proposed solution in three minutes, it's an honor to him. Some need to convince others. To convince others, not just to understand what is meant to be said, it takes a little more time. These are all some restrictive measures that apply here. It also mentions whether or not he has the right to rule. This is where the government accepted the promoter, but she therefore made a commitment. This is not the first time in this country's parliamentary practice. We had the Vidovdan Constitution and the Constitutional Assembly in 1921, where the government had arranged the entire Rules of Procedure. Whether it's right or wrong, she's assessed the public in the last 80 years and said she hasn't. Today we have this proposal, which is why it is not clear to us to the end whose feathers it was going from. It's said to be part of the DOS. There's no way it's 84 MPs. That's exactly the parameter for what we're supposed to need to conduct the debate. So, at least 84 MPs. For all these and the reasons that my and my fellow MPs spoke in favour of the position that this Rules of Procedure should not be adopted, I suggest that the motion for a decision not be accepted, so before the Administrative Committee adopted only part of the amendments which are quite a small intervention, as far as I have been able to see; and that is a special story to be delivered to us during the debate; when some have already completed the debate, what the Administrative Committee has decided on the amendments. In this way, we can measure our decision and talk about the very proposal for a Rules of Procedure. So this part that has been accepted is just one small make-up of this solution, which is extremely restrictive and devastating for what is called parliament. The name also came from the words "parlara" from the Italian parliament, which means speaking. This is where the speech of the Members comes down to a minimum. The reason is that the debate will be held for three days and that more effective work will be achieved and committees will be held in these two days; the President of the Assembly should particularly approve if the committee is to be held when the assembly is held; so we also have days to vote on it. If the committees are set on Mondays and Fridays, then the assembly will work for five days. Please, my right to attend to every committee cannot be challenged by anyone. Although I am challenged by the right to charge when I was on the board, and I was not in the Assembly this afternoon, and I was previously on the board, they dispute the right to do so, but the right to be on the board can't challenge me; and that I am participating, if this is the idea that in the best and most qualitative way through the board is being prepared by the session of the Assembly, and so far there has been no solution. Is this practice going to come back to life? I doubt it. If we can't secure a quorum with 126 MPs, as it says in the Constitution, and how it is foreseen for all the rules of procedure, then it's hard for us to be able to function on Friday and Monday. Thank you, and I suggest we not adopt this Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-04-0.u21796	The People's Messenger Miroslav Christodulo has the word, and the next one declared for the word is the Messenger Marko Jaksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-04-0.u21797	Dear Members and Members of Parliament, we have before us a proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia; it was dated on 30 May, and since it was a day of the weekend, many of us received this only on Monday, that is, yesterday, so we didn't have much time to prepare. So, the Social Democratic Party has submitted only four amendments to this, and it would probably have submitted four more if there had been more time. That's one general remark. So there's little time for a quality debate, that's what's going to be a feature of Parliament's new work if this Rules of Procedure is adopted. The Social Democratic Party, by the way, believes that a completely new Rules of Procedure should be adopted in this National Assembly and I assume that a working group of representatives of all parliamentary groups in this Parliament will be formed over the summer to propose a new Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. What should adorn this new Rules of Procedure is to treat all MPs equally, opposition and majority, and those who come regularly and those who do not come regularly, and those who agree and those who disagree, and those who write amendments, as well as those who do not write amendments, and those who for political reasons do not enter the Assembly and those who for political reasons attend every minute of the work of the Assembly. We're going to go to elections for sure once and for all, after four years we have to follow the Constitution, so what most of them are today, maybe parts of that majority, sometimes they're minority or vice versa, and then we have to sort of even it out, so that this Rules of Procedure is principled, and not that changes to the Rules of Procedure solve some of the political problems that we have at the moment. So the Rules of Procedure should be some text that applies forever, and that political problems are solved in some other way, such as dialogue between the divided parties. The Social Democratic Party has proposed something similar to this in the previous round of amendments to the Rules of Procedure, which the DSS proposed several months ago; at that time we suggested that the quorum be abolished as a legal category in the Rules of Procedure and that the day and time of the vote start in principle and in particular. But what we got I don't think it matches what we suggested; so this isn't what we suggested; it looks like, but it's been changed in some way that we didn't like very much. We don't think the quorum should exist at all, not that it's one-third; not at all. For example, when voting in the principle of the Labour Act, there were no 238 MPs here because they were obliged to come by the Rules of Procedure, but the parliamentary groups of the majority and the opposition prevailed to bring as many MPs as possible; there were people here almost dying who we brought to vote for or against that law. This naturally creates a large number of MPs at the moment of voting on an important law. We are concerned that the quorum should exist only at the time of the opening of the session of Parliament, for the reason that it could happen elsewhere in the city; at some parallel maintenance of the Assembly, for any reason more MPs come to the meeting than the meeting scheduled by the President of the National Assembly in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. So to prevent that, we have earlier suggested that the quorum only exists at the beginning of the session, and beyond that it should not exist at all. We have submitted four amendments; three of them refer to the provisions that provide that after the debate in principle on all points of the agenda, a day for voting, with a big "d", as it says in this proposal, (it says a big "d" everywhere); in the voting day, a vote should be held on everything. So we're going to apologize about 25 points on the agenda, I don't know what, in two or three weeks, then we're going to come in and we're just going to push buttons for a week. That means we won't know exactly whose amendment we're voting for, why we're voting for that amendment, which were arguments for and against. It is something that is bad in our opinion and we have suggested, for the best of intentions, and not to delay something, distract and strangle the work of the National Assembly, to pay a little more of our time here to come up with a better solution in the debate on details - we propose that after the debate in principle, the moment when the vote begins in principle, and then the debate in details and voting on details. So the difference is that we would continue to discuss details before voting on details, about each amendment, and not later, after 25 days, for example, when there's a big agenda. Also, we have submitted an amendment to the 9th Amendment of the Rules of Procedure and we suggest that it be deleted. The promoter predicted that Article 98 of Section 4 should be deleted; he said that if I look for a replica, and the National Assembly president felt that there was no basis for replication, I could ask the National Assembly to declare without a search that I still have the right to replication. It is proposed to delete this by remaining the final decision of the National Assembly president. The Social Democratic Party believes that there are cases where it is very important that the Assembly declares whether it has a basis for replication. For example, right here a year ago straight, one head of the parliamentary group insulted another MP here by national law. And then he asked for a replica, but then the president of the National Assembly, Mr. Martian, didn't give him a replica. I can't remember right now whether or not we've spoken about it, but I think it's a very good opportunity and I would very much like to vote for that MP to have the right to reply. It's one example that never has to happen again and I believe it won't, while the president of the National Assembly is the one that is now, but I want to say, in principle, it's theoretically possible for someone to be insulted by national, full, or otherwise, and to deny him the right to replication. We therefore believe that the National Assembly, without a search, still needs to be declared if the MP considers that his right to replication is denied, and that is only 15 seconds longer as the vote continues because there is no debate about it. We have had some more objections, but we have not turned them into amendments; only briefly, this refers to Article 10, where the President of the National Assembly decides to move away from the session; then to the members of the 2nd and 8th amendments where the Administrative Committee makes a decision on the violation of the Rules of Procedure, not the National Assembly. Also, which is very important, and we will support someone's amendment, if it is written, to Article 24 of this Rules of Procedure; this introduces the new 217a, which makes the difference between Members of the Parliament on Permanent Work and MPs who are not on permanent work. MPs are said to be on permanent duty, unless they attend sessions, to be removed from the list of Members of Parliament on permanent work. We believe that this provision is in principle the difference between MPs in this National Assembly. We don't think it's parliamentary, it's probably not even in accordance with the Constitution, and I hardly can find out now which member is being broken, but I mean, all MPs in this assembly should be equal. I agree with the argument that this isn't a company; we're not a company whose profits are going to come true or not, or we're going to produce some product that needs to be sold on the market or not, so our employer if we're not efficient enough says - you've been working a little bit, we haven't sold the product, it's a small profit, what do we do to you, go ahead, and we're going to bring someone else here right now. Parliament, however, is not a company, but the most legislative body, and here we represent the sovereignty of citizens in some way, although this is a proportional system, we have the Presidency of DOS and all these things that threaten parliamentaryism, but this is one institution of civil sovereignty, and we need to express our political views here. The political attitude can be expressed by not going in here. We of the Social Democratic Party have twice used that right. Once, during the debate on the Labour Act, and the second time when the Supreme Court decided to withdraw the mandate of one of the parties that joined the Social Democratic Party. I think the party that supports the government, the Democratic Party, once took advantage of that right, when it rose five minutes before the end, before six rose and refused to listen to one MP. I gave them the law then and I got up with them, but I'm saying it's normal and we should all have that right. Someone here said it would be the voters' assessment. We have every four years elections, and if someone doesn't come in for a day, it's his right; of course, voters will never vote for him again, but it has to be his right. So we're not a company that measures some of its profits or some of its efficiency. To end, to commend some of the provisions, not to be critical of it, since we're going to vote yes. We feel that it is very good to have a new sentence for physical violence in this congregation. So, when the sentence laid down in Article 105(6) applies, we introduce a new deadline for the ban on coming to the meetings of the Assembly and that is 90 days. This is not an increase in the penalty for exclusion from 20 to 90 days, but it is the introduction of a new 90-day sentence only when you pour water on the President of the National Assembly or when you insult moral and physical integrity; then we have the right to exclude such an MP without prior notice. That's the only case that's supposed to be 90 days away. We very much support it and it's very commendable. Also this three days for discussion, because the most qualitative debate in the Assembly is taking place on committees of the National Assembly and we think it is very good to take two days to discuss these committees.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-04-0.u21798	The People's Messenger Marko Jaksic has the word, and the next is Natasa Milojevic's MP. You're giving up. Then MP Petar Petrovic after MP Mark Jaksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-04-0.u21799	Ladies and gentlemen, I thought that today, instead of this Rules of Procedure that we were given and who we should talk about, we would bring a resolution, a declaration or anything like that, given that there are more than two months of Serbs from the Kosovo Mitrovica demonstrating that they are fighting for basic human and civil rights. Unfortunately, instead of a declaration of support or a resolution of the country of origin, which would have contributed to them, we have received a new rules of procedure which should make all that has been witnessed in the Serbian parliament for years somewhat reduced and reduced. On the other hand, we had the opportunity to ask for more than three months to form a Kosovo committee in the Serbian Parliament. I even asked the president of the Serbian Parliament three months ago for this point to be found on the agenda. Unfortunately, she didn't find herself, apparently for technical reasons, because they didn't make proposals for the board. In order to help our people, Serbs down below, who are unfortunately the only people who are suffering and living like in a camp, in order to help these martyrs, who have more than 100,000, I think the Kosovo Committee would have to form and define our policy in Kosovo. What is our policy in Kosovo? In a year's time, we've only actually made one resolution. We have, for example, for Miroljub Labus to say that parallel structures should be abolished in Kosovo, that the structures of the state of Serbia, hospitals, schools and anything else that is the image of the Serbian state below should be abolished.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-04-0.u21800	Mr. Jaksic, please return to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-04-0.u21801	These are the parallel structures Mr. Rexhepi and Mr. Steiner are talking about. Therefore, this parliament should deal with this work, instead of this and this Rules of Procedure, which we are given to deal with the problem and these problems, whether we are in favour of the survival of the Serbian state down there or not. As far as the Rules of Procedure itself are concerned, it is said to serve the Serbian state's reform and reforms of the Serb republic. What republic? Those republics, let's say, where in southern Serbia a monument is erected to terrorists and flag the foreign state, where the president of the Serbian government in Novi Pazar cannot speak in the House of Culture, which this state and this government have made, where we amputate part of Kosovo. Is she so independent, not to say maimed, not to say, circumcised Serbia. I think before that, we need to work out some other things so we can come up with the reform itself. At the very end, speaking of which, I had the opportunity to read that the DOS presidency had made a decision that, as far as I and Mr Antonijevic are concerned, he would not take away our mandates. I think after everything that's happened, after all the spit and all the newspaper stuff, it's all too degutant. We do not need such mercy, and we will share the fate of the other messengers. We're still made of some other fela, we've had much nicer and better offers than UNMIK, so we didn't agree.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-04-0.u21802	The People's MP Petar Petrovic has the word, and the following is the MP Marijan Risticevic, declared to be the next one.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-04-0.u21803	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens of Serbia who at the moment can monitor this transmission on channel three of RTS, which only sees one third of Serbia, i.e. it can watch and that is probably also some reason why this Rules of Procedure is on the agenda today. Instead of having a draft legislative project on the agenda today that will improve the standard of citizens of Serbia, student and student standards, standards of pensioners and all other citizens of Serbia, we have been discussing for the third time since we have been in this session on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, as if it were the most important thing in the world. The draft decision on amendments and additions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly is not a respected Article 158. The Rules of Procedure, which we have adopted here; for, in this way, this decision cannot be made by emergency procedure. There have already been stories about it, and I don't think it's worth the arguments to convince you of something you know, but normally you have to vote sometimes against your conscience. In the proposal for a decision, to begin in order, what MPs of the Assembly Club of the Soviets cannot agree to have given more amendments; we will try to improve the proposed text of the decision, and what we disagree with will be presented in several points. First, sessions are proposed to be held three days a week -- Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday, and board sessions are held on Monday and Friday or another day, if allowed by the president of the National Assembly. So, the board president doesn't have an autonomous right to schedule a board meeting, then when he deals with board members or when he finds it appropriate, he has to do it on Mondays and Fridays only, and in case he wants another day, then he has to ask for authority from the president of the assembly. I think it's an absurdd of its kind. It is also absurd to discuss a legal project in principle, and when it is finished, the debate in particular is changed, so when this is over, we wait for a time period of a few days when the president of the assembly will set a day for the vote. Look at the wonders, in the proposal for this decision, that day is written in a capital letter "d", as if it were a state holiday, when we come to the solemn suits to vote whether we adopt something or not. I think it will be the subject of studying some generations behind us as parliamentaryism and democratisation are stifled in Serbia at this time when DOS is in power. The motion for a decision gives too much authority to the president of the Assembly by giving him the right, in addition to those powers which he has so far and which he has used in a limited number of opportunities, to remove MPs from the assembly within a period now extended to 90 days. At the same time, to make one parallel, the 90 days are as long as the regular session of the Serbian Parliament in two regular sessions during the year. That's very interesting, and I think that legal theory and practice will have something to write and what to study. Finally, what SSJ MPs cannot accept is that MPs in this assembly are placed in two categories. One category is MPs to so-called with constant work, and other categories are those other MPs who are not on permanent work. If it happens, when this Rules of Procedure is adopted, and you will probably adopt it, that the MP for any reason, some of them are of a personal nature, is not in the room when the quorum is determined or voted, will have to bring an excuse to the President of the Assembly as a student in primary or secondary school, to go to the doctor and ask him to justify that he could not be there for these and these reasons when determining the quorum. I think it's this way that the MP is degraded. Gentlemen of the DOS, you and we were elected by the voters of Serbia, the citizens of Serbia and let us all protect the dignity of MPs, all of us 250. For all of this, and there are many other reasons why we will be talking about from the Soviet Parliament's Club of Representatives in the debate on amendments, MPs cannot accept the proposal for a decision on amendments to the Rules of Procedure's amendments on the work of the Assembly. (Dear Shormaz: I have a proposal for the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-04-0.u21804	Find a provision that says the MP can get word on the proposal. It was a practice, but we've abolished that practice. Find a provision and you'll get a word. The word is by MP Marijan Risticevic, followed by MP Slobodan Tomovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-04-0.u21805	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, let me say something about peasants. One of my esteemed colleagues rightly defended the peasants here. Everything would be fine if he hadn't done the wheat in June and July. To inform him that the wheat sowing was carried out in the autumn and that the price of wheat was set and it was published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" in the autumn. The peasants don't have to read "Official Messengers," but MPs who rightly want to represent them should know that the price is set on time before the sowing. So it was October or November, and it wasn't in June or July. I'm very fond of this esteemed colleague, and I'm very glad he's defending the peasants, but it seems to me that the late grandfather Trayko left him some family treasure, an hour of 10,000 marks, etc. My dear colleague will have to change his image. (President: Mr. Risticevic, please return to the agenda topic. ) However, to return to the proposal on amendments to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We're changing it again. During the last change, I did not support the change of Rules of Procedure until the end. She was proposed by the former president of parliament and I had a reserve there. The reserve referred to the reduced rights of MPs, but my current counterpart and former assembly president insisted that for his successful work, we adopt such changes and additions to the Rules of Procedure. So, I'm talking about those we adopted last fall. Thus, MPs are reduced to work on parliamentary groups, limited time for debate, etc. I voted for the president of the National Assembly that belonged to DOS, and now I don't know if they're DOS anymore. They call us something - DOS in the rest, and they're DOS outside DOS, DOS off themselves. So I had some reservations back then, but I agreed to change the Rules of Procedure for more efficient work. There are no reserves on these proposed changes this time. They are necessary for the sake of more efficient work and are not constrained by the rights of MPs, but by the MPs commit themselves to some work, to active participation in the sessions. Past changes and additions were necessary because of a single parliamentary group, we now have an obstruction or destruction of several parliamentary groups. Our former coalition partners, who have been breaking down for a long time over whether they are the government or the opposition, have finally decided that they are the opposition. As someone said, the raven that was squatting on two stakes seems to have disintegrated and decided to turn to one side. They finally discovered their true face. Their intentions are to challenge early elections by obstruction and destruction, to bring down the government of the Republic of Serbia, to join the old defeated forces, to return us to Serbia before October 5th. It is not difficult to assume that such a kind of government would make some border problem. (President: Mr Risticevic, please return to the agenda topic - amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure. ) Madam President of the National Assembly, if I do not stick to the agenda, what should we say about those colleagues that the Rules of Procedure did not mention, and they spoke here for five or ten minutes. So, I'm talking about amendments to the Rules of Procedure. Why is it not appropriate for someone to adopt far less rigid changes and additions to the Rules of Procedure than those adopted by us? So, I'm saying that at all costs they want to challenge new elections, join with the old forces, return Serbia from before 5 October and invent some border problem, homogenize, challenge isolation, print money, limit prices, introduce a conducting economy. That's why we're changing the Rules of Procedure to stop them. A lot of lies have been told here about the amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure. The first lie and the truth is that the government is a proponent of amending and supplementing the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. Those who claim it do not seem to know how to read, and if they did, they would know that the proposal was signed on behalf of the DOS parliamentary group by the president of the DOS parliamentary group. No matter how many MPs she has, we still have the right to submit proposals. The second great untruth refers to a quorum where a quorum for decision is being scratched. No constitutional basis has been violated here, 126 MPs continue to make decisions, and a working quorum of one-third has been determined, with the right. If one third of the MPs had the right to convene a session of the National Assembly, why would the working quorum for listening to the speakers not be one third? This even goes in favor of the opposition. Let's say the opposition collects 84 signatures, asks for an extraordinary session, and they show up, we boycott them, and they don't have a session. This is some kind of positive discrimination against the opposition and I don't give them the right when they resent it. The obligations of Members of the Parliaments on permanent work have increased slightly, but the very words "emergents on permanent work" mean that these MPs should be in constant work, that is, to accompany the National Assembly's meeting. Much has been said here about the relationship between the Parliament and the Government. It's claimed we're the government's authority. It is claimed by those who, during the last term, were the authorities and we to their government when they proposed laws (and we had one seven, eight sessions in two years) in the draft laws we couldn't move any commas. We are all witnesses here, and opposition and position, that we have returned to our government a single six-seven law, that we have adopted hundreds of amendments to government proposals, and among them amendments to opposition MPs. Well, those who were the government's authority in the last term now resent us who return the bill's proposals to the government, we adopt amendments to the MPs. They resent us for being an organ of government! If it's one of them, it's a lot. I was particularly struck by the fact that there was a dignity in the last term. That is what those who have left power say - that the past rules of procedure have regulated the dignity of the National Assembly. And, let's say, we in the last session, when we go up, skip one twenty feet. So much for dignity. Then they said there was tolerance -- when they came out for a pay phone, from the front row, the government said, "Publisher, mercener, we'll kill you," and every session a dozen times. If that's tolerance, then we had it. You said we had a right to talk. That's true, we had the right to speak here, but we had no right to speak outside, voters had no right to hear from us. So much, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-04-0.u21806	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Slobodan Tomovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-04-0.u21807	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the circumstances in which we are discussing a proposal on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have been advocating me to an anecdote from the time of that eastern bloc in which the Russians had their troops in the Czech Republic, Poland, Hungary and other countries. In that anecdotes he says - at the time of the carnival or the church (or the White Week at our place) a Czech fell unconscious and then they resuscitated him, the Czech regained consciousness, saw an American soldier standing over him, jumped, began to hug him "Living freedom, freedom came," etc. And this soldier says, "Nut freedom, masquerade." Now, in which the association -- well, let me explain, the association is that I thought, when I heard that the amendments to the Rules of Procedure were being prepared, that the proposer would become a result of remorse, because there was a Rules of Procedure, very rigid and very, very, very repressive, because of that, suggest something that would enable us now opposition MPs to express our beliefs, to convey the messages of that part of the electoral body that gave us the mandate, and that we simply do not reach for something that is allowed in the parliamentary struggle, and these are petty obstructions which, in some cases, grow into incidents, which no one, of course, justify. I thought, therefore, that DOS or the parliamentary majority of DOS would succeed in disciplining their MPs and that they would come here and give the quorum, and that it would not change the Rules of Procedure, as a matter of principle those Serbian proverbs -- daughter of diamonds, the daughter of diamonds, is objecting to. So let's just say -- here, we're going to solve it that way, and with the Rules of Procedure we're going to solve some other things. I thought so, however, when "new rulesmen, masquerade." And why the masquerade ball -- let's take a look at together why the masquerade ball, what's being offered as worse than what's been bad, what's being offered to be different? So far, the presidents of the committee could have autonomously scheduled meetings, when agreed, and now it can be Tuesday and Wednesday, unless otherwise decided by the president of the assembly. So we define the position of the chairman of the committee, and we add to the importance of the role of the speaker of the Assembly. So far, the board of directors has decided on everything, including where to sit with the MPs. Now we say - it will decide whether the Rules of Procedure is hurt or not. Okay, if we wanted to go further, which we didn't say - let the court do it. Well then, while the competent court determines whether the Rules of Procedure has been injured, etc. They've all forgotten who's been complaining about what's happened and it doesn't even matter if it happened anymore. So what we are offered -- we are offered to hold sessions on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays, to vote only one day, and we are offered that when we speak in principle, one third is enough. Why -- well, I guess the parliamentary majority would care to talk as little as possible, to vote what is preferred by the government. So if it's an interest, which I have to listen to what the one who doesn't agree with it says; I'll come, I'll vote when it's time, and that'll solve that problem. If that's the case, of course you don't have to listen now, and I really appreciate you sitting there. Thank you. So you don't have to listen to it, you don't have to just be there. We're going to tell you what we're going to say, it doesn't interest anyone anyway, because it's probably important to vote it out, not in a fight of opinion to say why, and why not this, not to explain to the public who is and why it's right. Furthermore, so far, we could, if as a proposer, we feel that there is something we should have more time to explain, at least theoretically, to get more time. Now that member's being erased, and apparently he can't do it anymore. So far, we have been able to decide whether anyone has a right to a replica or not. Now, when the President of the Assembly says no, there is no. It's kind of like those war movies, when that young man comes along and says, "There's no God." As far as I'm concerned, who said, and he says, "Commissor friend." So he said the president of the assembly has no replica. There's no replica, and it's over, so it puts an ad act. Furthermore, we can now, instead of all we could say, get a 90-day sentence; if the Assembly lasts three days a week, then whoever gets a red card, car by the end of the year. And I guess that's democratic. It may be, but I don't agree with that. And, not to abuse the time of my other colleagues who also want to say something about it, let me just say this: the MP in the Assembly is someone whom his party has chosen, therefore, he can only be held accountable to his party, possibly to the head of the Parliament, not to the Secretary of Parliament, because he is not their clerk and they cannot sanction him. The MP has the right to express his views and ideas, for he did not receive the salary because he was appointed by someone in the congregation, but by those who received the mandate. So that's what you're offering us, and that's why I'm saying, "Nut's rulesman, masquerade." And let me also tell you this -- wise Nikola Pasic, in his time, had one thesis, which he formulated as such -- when you are in power, he makes laws that will benefit you when you are in opposition. The promoter probably thinks it'll take longer than the Janitors in these areas, but, gentlemen, don't forget, no one's room lasted until dawn. We're not voting for this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-04-0.u21808	Thank you. National MP Milka Marinkovic gave up her application for a word. The People's Messenger Nenad Lemajic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-04-0.u21809	The esteemed chairman, honourable MPs, since the time the congregations were formed, first as a fundamental restriction on government, and later as a source of their legitimacy, the executive authority has been trying to limit them, or bring them down to formal bodies. The Roman Emperor Caligula, otherwise murdered after four years of rule by his Praetorians, is certainly the most drastic example of such behavior. He also introduced his horse in order to strengthen the credibility of the Senate. Today, a much more refined method of disciplining the congregation body is being used. Unfortunately, it is often the Rules of Procedure, which should improve the work of the Assembly. Today, we are having a debate on the draft Rules of Procedure on the work of the Assembly, full of controversial and unanimity views. Not only the proposal but also the circumstances in which it is presented in many issues. I would point only to one of these circumstances - the urgency of the adoption of the Rules of Procedure. Why it is necessary to bring this Rules of Procedure by an urgent procedure. There are many arguments against such a method of adopting the Rules of Procedure. One of the essential preconditions of reform, at least in the words of most MPs, is the stabilisation and reform of the system's institutions. It is doubtless that the Serbian Parliament should be the key institution of the state. A stable assembly that could meet all expectations must regulate its work with a Rules of Procedure that will not change according to how a government fits. It is certain that it cannot be a quality and agreed Rules of Procedure proposed directly before the sitting itself, without any fundamental debate that should precede the putting of this act on the agenda. The functioning of the Assembly is reflected in a number of important institutions. It is therefore simply inappropriate for the amendment of the Rules of Procedure to be adopted by emergency procedure, without the necessary consultation with all relevant political and congregation factors. Efficientness in the work of the Assembly cannot be achieved by the debate on essential problems being brought to the formal, and by turning MPs into tasters and the mere transmission of the government, but by the essential agreement of all parliamentary groups. We cannot turn the debate on important problems into a formal one and in practice kick it out of parliament. In this way we convert the Assembly, I would say, rather to the government's authority, some kind of praise agency and de facto its service. And, to sum up briefly, this Rules of Procedure is for daily use, for the current political need, and it will not contribute to the quality of the work of the Assembly, but rather remove the necessary discussion from this body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-04-0.u21810	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Bosko Ristic, and the next declared word is MP Milos Lukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-04-0.u21811	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, fellow MPs, is on the agenda of the amendment of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, which is in some way extorted by the state and behaviour of individual MPs in this Parliament, who, by their conduct and by the challenge of chaos, are trying to destabilise parliament, that this chaos that is being created here is being poured into the streets; so in a non-parliamentary, undemocratic way, they would try to win power and all the leverages of the authorities, in order to achieve their programme that they are truly implementing, not the one for which they registered in the Justice Ministry. We are here faced with secret and fictitious programs of political organizations, which are in action. All Serbian citizens have seen what has been happening in our parliament for the past ten days by a parliamentary group, along with a secret coalition with MPs who warmly support them. Now, dear friends, that is why we must stand in the way of this and ensure the efficiency of Parliament's amendments to the Rules of Procedure. These amendments to the Rules of Procedure do not in any way jeopardise the rights of MPs to parliamentaryism. The rules of procedure do not call into question the relationship between the strict division of powers in parliamentary and executive, as well as the judicial authority. It is certain that only the way MPs behave is arranged, that dignity, efficiency in the work of Skuština is ensured. Because, I must say, all MPs are here and sent as representatives of the people to bring such legal projects that would ensure the smooth work of the ruined economy, as we inherited, to ensure the rule of law, to provide investment for our economy, to start production, to secure new jobs; that is what our obligation in parliament is. The question arises - to whom does one efficient and quality work in parliament not suit? It's those groups that cause chaos and want to spill that chaos into the streets. Such measures as we want to bring into parliament are only preventing destruction, preventing the humiliation and degradation of parliament. I would remind you that parliament is the face of one nation, the face of one state, and that the whole world is looking at us right now through the conduct of Parliament. The new rules of procedure neither abolish democratic rights nor abolish parliamentaryism. They're all the same. They have equal access to the debate and only increases efficiency in the work of parliament. As for the division of the debate and the days when congregation committees will work, only congregation committees are given a greater opportunity and are given greater importance. For what? The assembly committees are now scheduled during the debate or at very short intervals before or after the debate. In the future, MPs will have the opportunity to attend and participate in the work of as many committees as possible, to prepare actively; as in many parliaments developed European countries, the most important political issues, the most important laws will be discussed on boards and already pre-prepared, with quality decisions, to give parliament a decision. Only the presence and reduction of the required number of quorum MPs in the debate does not in principle affect the legitimacy of this debate. Legitimity is needed in the decision-making process and in no way threatens the quality of decisions made by reducing the number of MPs required in the debate on the proposed acts discussed and which should be adopted later. That is why I fully support all the proposed changes, because I believe that they do not in any way endanger the rights of MPs, are not jeopardising democracy. Everyone has the right to express what is on his soul and what is his personal and political attitude, no one prevents him from participating in the work, and those who are interested in participating in the debate will certainly participate in the debates for which the quorum is not needed as a decision-making process. That's what the citizens expect from us. They expect us to work here. They expect us to be responsible and to pass laws that guarantee the prosperity of citizens in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-04-0.u21812	Thank you. I apologize to MP Milos Lukic, the secretary informed me that the Serbian Unity Party has used the time allowed to discuss this item on the agenda. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, the criteria are the same for everyone. The word has a People's MP Bora Drakulovic, and the next one registered for the word is MP Vojislav Jankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-04-0.u21813	Dear fellow MPs, I've prepared a little something to say about this unfortunate Rules of Procedure, because it seems to me that he is worse than the worst that anyone has ever adopted and I don't believe he'll ever be adopted. The draft decision amending and supplementing the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia significantly and restrictively repealing the rights of MPs. This seems to be by limiting the work of the MPs to certain working days of the week. It is then up to the Administrative Committee to decide not to refer MPs to the infringements of the Rules of Procedure immediately, but to do so within 24 hours. In this way, advertising for the breach of the Rules of Procedure becomes groundless and pointless. The right of MPs to request a declaration by the National Assembly on their right to replication is also denied, as has been the case so far. On the other hand, the solutions envisioning that the president of the National Assembly can express the measures of distance from the session give too much authority to the speaker of the Assembly and to the harm of the MPs. The measure of distance from the 90-day session is not in line with normal conditions for working in parliament. It's inconclusive to predict such a measure. It is a democratic solution that provides for and decides on any amendment without the right of the applicant, as well as other authorised persons, to explain the amendment, or to give their opinion on the amendment. It is unacceptable that the status of Members of Parliament in permanent work in the Assembly is conditioned by their presence when determining the quorum or during work at the session of the National Assembly, since the MP has been elected a person, that his rights and duties have been established by the Constitution. In all, this amendment to the Rules of Procedure abolishes democracy and introduces dictatorship into parliament. I'm sure we'll soon feel in this congregation proof that it is. The answer to this will certainly be June 28th, let's see what the people say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-04-0.u21814	The word has a People's MP Dusan Ilic, and the next reported for the discussion is MP Dragan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-04-0.u21815	Honorable representatives of the government, let's try for at least one moment to forget who the MPs representing the government are and who the MPs are that don't support the government. Let's try for a moment to see what's really good for parliament and for parliamentaryism in Serbia and what's really good for us as people's constituents and representatives of the citizens' will, as my colleague, Svezanovic, from Gornji Milanovac, says. The proposal of the Rules of Procedure is certainly not good for parliamentaryism in Serbia, and even poses a great danger to it. Why? Because that's one half proposal. The promoter took, truthfully, certain experiences from parliaments, as he likes to say, developed democracies. He only took experiences that match those environments. I'll try three things to explain why this proposal is half-assed. When we talk about quorum, as the Kragujevac MP says, there are parliaments in which the quorum does not even exist, or is 20% quorum or even 20 MPs, and these are parliaments where there are several readings of the bill. We don't have it here. That's why... Mrs. Milka, I'd really like to ask you not to disturb me. I know this is of no interest to you, and you're only interested in gossip, stories and quarrels with the MPs of the SRS. Allow us who are interested in doing this and try even your colleague from Kragujevac to get acquainted with my views. Thank you. For example, parliaments with no quorum and where there is a working quorum have several readings of the bill. Is it possible now in one parliament that has a five-hour debate, unlike those developed parliaments that have a debate of a few readings, and which lasts a few days, to apply this working quorum and whether that is the right thing to do with our MPs' proposals and amendments? So that's the first drawback and the first half-view and the first half-proposed proposal. In this proposal for a decision, all other applicants except the Government shall be denied. Now I'm going to make that very specific. Article 92, which is deleted, says that the proposing, or authorised representative of the act's proposing at the start of its presentation, may request that the National Assembly grant him a long time of exposure, by indicating how long the time extension requires and explaining why it does so. Proposer this 92nd member deletes. Then, article 4, which says, "The National Assembly may, during the session, without a search, make changes in order of agenda points, with the agreement of the promoter." I'm only interested in an MP as a promoter. What does this practically mean? That means that the consent that protects me as a bill promoter no longer exists. The government may remove certain issues and certain drafts of the law from the agenda so that these legislative proposals proposed by other promoters and not by the Government never come to the agenda. So that's something that also restricts MPs as legislators and people's electors. The third, and most dangerous, is the expression of the measure of distance and removal. It is true that there are these measures in developed parliaments. I will call on one concrete example, as it requires of us, and what is against this proposal, Mr Panajotovic, in the parliament of the Republic of Slovakia, means countries in transition, countries we may need to look up to, and which is a serious candidate for the European Union and pursues European integration, the distance measure is expressed in just one day. That is when the MP is allowed to make a statement about every draft law. And not only about the proposal, but about taking part in every vote that exists and that occurs during the procedure. With such a proposal for a 90-day distance, a practical day of voting is created. That's the most dangerous thing. There is a possibility, with extreme application of this measure (for which, I will say it openly, I do not believe it will happen, but let's open that possibility), creating a day of voting. This means that some MPs will not be able to plead on a legal proposal, which I think is really inadmissible and that it is most dangerous. The fact is that such a single proposal exists in the current draft Rules of Procedure, where it is 20 days. I'm going to say frankly that I think it's wrong. We must not deny the MPs at any time to plead. That's what's most dangerous, and I repeat, creating voting days is something that's very dangerous. I've tried really with these three equative examples to convince you that this proposal is not good. I believe I've at least convinced someone of that. I spoke on the board, but unfortunately it had no effect. It's a big question if it's going to work now. I want to believe he will. I call on the promoter to withdraw this proposal if there is still little sense for parliamentaryism in Serbia. I hope that the next Rules of Procedure will really be something that protects parliamentaryism in Serbia, rather than turning parliament into one government service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-04-0.u21816	The word has been made by MP Dejan Mihajlov, head of the DOS-DSS parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-04-0.u21817	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I will start from one term used here by those who have condemned the use of this term used by the predecessor of Ms. Micic from an earlier period, Mr. Tomic. As we protested and sought new elections and different laws, he spoke of us as the forces of chaos and madness. It has been said here many times for those who are against this Rules of Procedure that the forces of chaos and madness are. I warn you of the terminology used here and that it is equal to the terminology used by an authoritarian regime before this. This speaks of the nature of the change in this Rules of Procedure and the intention of the Proposer to put the Assembly in order, but not the order of discussion here, that citizens can be witnesses of all the facts that we present, but the order that everyone votes in favour of the Government's proposals. These amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure do not contribute to the better work of parliament. On the contrary, they will disable or simply remove work from this parliament. This parliament will be brought to the level of the assembly of bird growers or fishermen, with apologies for bird breeders and fishermen. Interest in the work of this parliament will only come down to the day for the vote. The draft laws the government proposes will go through without any debate or control. The parliamentary majority will arrive on the day of the vote, with a big "d" as if it were a holiday, as someone said in the solemn suits, and vote in favour of the government's proposals obediently. The government's best MPs will be the ones who spend most of their time in the hall, almost 100%, and manage not to write any amendments or almost never go out for a pay phone. If these are MPs according to the government's criteria, then she does not need MPs - then let us set up a meeting of the heads of parliament groups that everyone has as many rights as its parliamentary group numbers; to abolish the debate; to abolish the Assembly; and then once a week or once a month in a brief debate, the six heads of parliament groups say: the parliamentary group of the rest of DOS 107 or how many MPs, we 45, and you have no options -- our votes are so worth it; and that this is how the debate, voting and everything else is done. If someone sees democracy like that, that's fine. Here today, no one has been able to convince, I believe neither the public nor the MPs to contribute to the democratisation of parliament and the consolidation of parliament as an institution. All the predecessors have managed to convince us today, which is that reforms must not wait, that reform is and that we must sacrifice everything: both the rule of law, democracy, parliamentaryism and everything else. There's no excuse for an emergency procedure. What's the excuse for an emergency procedure? Whether these are consequences that could not be predicted or if there is an increased legislative activity as stated. This means that the government's legislative activity so far has been small and it is one of the best criticisms of the government's work we have heard so far; we have stated that the government's legislative activity has been small, insufficient, irresponsible and unserious; the fact is that there have been a lot of proposals for the government's laws that have been returned because they are bad. Not to mention only the Ministry of Justice, whose bill in most cases has been changed and returned. But this is about the government, not about Parliament. It only speaks of serious debates being held in this House. Unlike parliament under the SPS, where there were six or seven sessions, where laws passed, where 30 or 40 counts worked in one day and where there was no democracy at all, we will take this parliament, with all the consequences that it had, where the laws were being returned to the government and which began, with all the consequences of physical accounting and everything else, to look like a parliament where something was going to work, where different attitudes were being faced; and someone again wants to introduce us into the pre-democratic period that we had during the Socialists, where discussions were not being conducted, where discussions would not be conducted, and where MPs would not decide where the government would serve and MPs would implement. It's not democracy, it's not parliamentaryism, it's the introduction to dictatorship. Ladies and gentlemen, the consequence of all of this will be the abolition of direct TV broadcasts, you will see in a month, slowly, from then on, then, you will see, there have been these initiatives and while Mr. Martian was president of the Assembly, we managed to prevent it. So far, we've still got direct TV transmissions, and we'll see in a few months if they'll be there. They were alive, and they saw it. The Rules of Procedure mean, above all, the adjustment of laws, rules and procedures to the parliamentary majority, which is something very bad and which should not be allowed in democratic and legal states. Mostly, the system is respected and are mostly MPs, the government and everyone else obliged to respect the state, not to adapt the rules and procedures to themselves. We have a reverse procedure here, where a stable government is wanted, and an unstable state. This is exactly the way for us to get a stable government, and a destabilised state, a state that will be in deep political crisis, and where discussions will not be held in parliament; those who disagree with government proposals will not be able to express their arguments in parliament, but in this way, the parliamentary majority is pushing them into extraparliamentary means of fighting, as the greatest parliamentary commitment and the greatest achievement of democratic parliaments produce sitting and pressing the taster. The day of voting is a simple taster's day, there is a special value of obedience, as a criterion above all else. It's not parliament, it's not democracy. We as DSS disagreed, nor will we ever agree, and we believe that the amendments to the Rules of Procedures that we proposed last year were restrictive enough, but they were the mirrors of a system of redecorating the work of parliament where two systems did not combine. In editing Parliament's work, we have the following opportunities: firstly, to limit the time for discussion in principle, but to remain the necessary quorum throughout the debate; we have taken this system where the debate in principle is limited to five hours; the second system is that it does not require a half majority for the work of parliament, but a smaller majority, such as here one third or even less, but that discussions can last longer and that there are, as one of my colleagues from the party said, two or three readings of the law. This is where that possibility is lifted. With this proposal of the Rules of Procedure, we take the most restrictive provisions from both systems and we get the most restrictive rules of procedure from all countries in Europe. If we take Mr Lipelt's statement, the rapporteur of the Council of Europe, which says that the independence of the parliamentary mandate is a cornerstone of European democracy, there is no such thing as independence. The rules of procedure seek to take away any independence in the exercise of parliamentary mandates, introduces a working commitment to what is called a political struggle. It introduces a working obligation and wants to arrange, not only the work of one group or one party, but it wants to introduce here a way that exists in some company and wants the president of parliament to make a director of the company, who will subscribe everything to efficiency, and we will be employed. Ladies and gentlemen, the most restrictive provisions in these two systems are seen in the fact that we have a limited and time of debate in this Rules of Procedure, and we also have an unnecessary need for a quorum not to exist; a third of the MPs should be present to begin the debate; unable to provide 131, 126, or as long as it takes for the government to be stable, the figures of 84 are resorted to and the most restrictive measures to preserve the Government. And it's allowed, but it all has its price. As DSS MPs, we answer to citizens for what we do and answer to our party. Simply, if we fought for some rules and procedures while we were opposition, it's immoral to be against it when you're in a position. In this case, it comes to the position that we've advocated one thing then, and when the government has been sweetened, let's completely crush the opposition, let's totally crush those who don't think in any case as well as we do. By adopting or discussing the rules of procedure, which have such provisions, the citizens of Serbia are told that they, the government of the Republic of Serbia, want to conduct the work of Parliament. It is not good for the government to set the agenda for the Assembly, and on that agenda to amend and supplement the Rules of Procedure. That's not good. There are simply some acts in which the government must not interfere. If the Government has not granted this assembly the authority to report on its work, which is mandatory under the Government Act and by this Rules of Procedure... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... I'll use my next 10 minutes. If the Government has failed to respect this assembly's report on its work, to tell her what she has done, how much she has done, whether she has stayed on the reform course or not, whether she has put her foot in reform or not, that this report is being discussed here, that this report is being adopted, so that all citizens can hear what is done and what the Government is doing, and not that it is being served through the communications bureau or other services. That is the way to conduct the debate in this House. If an Anglo-Saxon example of the Rules of Procedure is taken, or this work of our Parliament is determined by the Anglo-Saxon case, then it should be known that in the British Parliament every Wednesday the Prime Minister and all ministers sit, so that MPs who do not support the government can ask them anything they want and are directly transmitted. When were we as MPs in this House able to do that? Never. Has anyone punished the government's representatives for not attending government meetings, even though it is their right to do so? When was the last time you saw the Prime Minister in this assembly? When was the last time you saw any minister? You can't remember. Maybe three times in this year and a half. All this is about the fact that the government wants to manipulate Parliament's work, to regulate Parliament on its own, and to simply put an end to parliamentaryism. What happened when the Ministry Law was passed, I said it was the abolition of parliamentaryism in Serbia. No debate is allowed on a law that is so important for Serbian citizens, a law that should strike the basis for the reconstruction of the Serbian government, I would say here, for the extension of the Serbian government. There was a lot of talk here about the various costs used. Who's talking about the cost of the largest government in Europe. We have the most numerous government in Europe, which has a lot of official vehicles and we want to expand it further.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-04-0.u21818	Mr. Michael, please return to the agenda. These are the amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-04-0.u21819	We're not going to talk about the government having the most vice president in Europe, our government. We return to the provisions concerning the Rules of Procedure; it introduces discrimination against MPs, which is totally contrary to the Constitution. The Constitution guarantees every MP that he does his job on his own, on his conscience and on his obligation to the citizens. The only judge in making political decisions in this House are citizens who will give us trust or not give it to us in the next election. You can't judge our work the way you want it: based on card-reading (where there are more cards than there are MPs in the hall, we have allegedly obedient MPs sitting, the law and practice that existed that MPs can speak not of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, but of making a proposal according to the Rules of Procedure, which is not prohibited in any word in this Rules of Procedure. You exercise the right to prohibit anything that is not explicitly permitted by the Rules of Procedure. It's a theory of law that's been abandoned since the Middle Ages. We have in modern theory the right to allow anything that is not explicitly prohibited; this rules allow only what is allowed. Nothing else is allowed or there are double arches for individual MPs in this congregation. One MP is allowed all: to earn, shout, and the other is not allowed anything. Thus, simply, the consequences of seducing order in this House bear both MPs who influence the confusion in this hall and those who lead. Giving the President of the Assembly a job opportunity to say a 90-day measure is simply something scandalous and unconstitutional; because he cannot have the President of the Assembly discreetly to remove and change the blood count of this parliament, to influence the vote, to throw half the MPs out of this room for 90 days, so that we can get 124 MPs kicked out of the hall for 90 days, to have 126 MPs ambushed and into reform spirit bring reform laws. Are those reforms? Someone mentioned Caligula. You're making Parliament according to the recipe of Caligula. Ladies and gentlemen, Serbia does not need such a parliament. We need to protect our dignity and this Parliament. The Democratic Party of Serbia will not vote for these changes and additions to the Rules of Procedure, as they deeply insult parliament, citizens of Serbia and all those who want a different state. Speaking of denying the quorum and not attending sessions, let the camera record MPs that demonstrate political will in the same way as demonstrated by the Democratic Party of Serbia by not attending certain points of the agenda. Let the cameras show double standards in this assembly. Let the cameras show the inconsistencies of those who propose MPs who fight for the citizens' interest in taking their mandates and overcoming electoral will.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-04-0.u21820	Mr. Mihaylov, for the second time I'm warning you to return to the agenda and it's 6:00 p.m., so please be parliamentary and bring the discussion to an end.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-04-0.u21821	Finally, as I said, the MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia will not support this Rules of Procedure, they will not support further restrictions of parliamentary rights because it deeply insults the intelligence of this people, because the people who once freed themselves of a kind of dictatorship must not allow themselves to go into a new kind of dictatorship and no one in this assembly is allowed to undermine Serbian citizens again, because they will show their will already in the first extraordinary elections that will be in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-04-0.u21822	We'll continue the work tomorrow.
