ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-04-0.u19716	Dear citizens of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, gentlemen of the Ministers, dear guests, allow me, above all, to refer to the presentation of the signatories to this agreement to redecorate relations between Serbia and Montenegro that we heard yesterday. Four representatives of the government spoke, of which two signatories. Unfortunately, we have not heard anything that would make us change our mind and vote for the adoption of this agreement to redecorate relations between Serbia and Montenegro. On the contrary, we even heard diametrically contradictory opinions, particularly Mr Batic, the minister of justice in the Serbian government, who even ordered his MPs to vote against this agreement on relations between Serbia and Montenegro. Prime Minister Djindjic made an apology yesterday to the opposition and Serbian citizens for not having been consulted and for not having been discussed before the Serbian Parliament. That's good, but it came too late. Mr Batic tried to transfer all responsibility for signing this document to the president of Yugoslavia, Mr Kostunica, who was doing everything himself, brought everything before the final act, according to him, and who is the only one responsible for signing this document. The Serbian Unity Party cannot accept this argument. We believe that he is guilty, above all, of the President of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, Mr Kostunica, but that he is as guilty as the Government of the Republic of Serbia, because if they did not know what it was about, if they were put before the final act, which is why they signed this agreement. That's a legitimate question. I expected the esteemed Dr. Miroljub Labus to explain this agreement to us from an economic point of view, but there was not a single word about whether we would have a common market, a common customs and a common currency. I expected him to explain to us how it is possible to create some kind of a para-state, some kind of provision, which even has much less economic elements than the European Union has, which has one single currency, such as the euro. And in the new Serbia-Montenegro community, we will have two currencies, different in two countries: only the euro in Montenegro, in Serbia. It's unacceptable and I don't think such an agreement could be signed. So, unfortunately, we couldn't hear anything from those who signed the agreement, which would convince us that such an agreement is good for the citizens of Serbia and the citizens of Montenegro. The show, which will be called Serbia-Montenegro, is created, it should be said openly, by the will of several people, those who have signed the agreement. And they can't avoid responsibility for that. No way! Neither President Kostunica nor Prime Minister Djindjic nor Professor Labus. No one from Serbia has been asked. No questions asked Serbian citizens. There were no round tables on this subject, for example, public debate. No debate has been held in parliament, and I am not talking about whether, God forbid, a referendum is scheduled, or a plebiscite, in which citizens would declare whether they want to live in such a state, which is so called and which is so arranged. When Tito renamed FNRJ to SFRY, then there was a debate in six republican parliaments and a decision was made not in his cabinet but in the Federal Assembly These new owners took the right to determine for themselves what the state would call itself, how we would live in it, and how it would be arranged. [[growls]] Really undemocratic, at least non-democratic. But that is why the citizens of Montenegro were asked: sixty-six thousand citizens of Montenegro are respected, and 8.5 million citizens of Serbia are not asked what state they will live in. I hear from the DOS audience, they ask when they're asked. Dear gentlemen, here they have defiled several months, several times a week, Mr. Predrag Bulatovic, Mr. Dragan Soc, Mr. Bozidar Bojovic, the leaders of the opposition from Montenegro, the SNP, the People's Party and the Serbian People's Party, and representatives of the government in Montenegro, Mr. Djukanovic, Mr. Vujanovic. You asked them, both opposition and power. And they're satisfied. Only the marginal parties in Montenegro, such as the Liberal Union and the Social Democratic Party, are not satisfied with this agreement because they want Montenegro, now and immediately, independent. And no one asked Serbian citizens. These are the legal representatives of the citizens of Montenegro, and through them have been questioned and consulted by citizens of Montenegro. No one has asked any leader of the opposition what state we will live in, what will be arranged and what will be called. And I can't blame that. It's okay. Although, of course it's not right, because 1,256,000 citizens voted for all opposition parties in the previous elections, but you didn't even ask the citizens who voted for DOS. You didn't consult them either, but you allowed Javier Solana to bring you a written document from Brussels to just verify it and sign it. The same man who bombed Serbia-Montenegro less than three years ago, inflicted so many human and material sacrifices on our country. It's not good for him to be our best man. It's not good for the state to be made by the order of the Western forces. What about Kosovo and Metohija after three years? The agreement clearly states that each Member State has the right to separate after three years. Isn't that the European Union's plan or part of the European Union's work, that on the same day that Montenegro is separated, and it will separate, because this agreement allows them, without any pain and with the recognition of the international community, to separate both Kosovo and Metohija on that day, because, according to Resolution 1244, Kosovo and Metohija is seen as part of the sovereign Yugoslavia. Since Yugoslavia is no more, neither Kosovo nor Metohija are in the form of Serbia, or the common state. It says in this agreement that all the authorities are moving on to the Successor, i.e. Serbia if Montenegro is separated, but this is too unclear and no mention of Kosovo and Metohija is mentioned anywhere, except Resolution 1244. Please, is it possible that this agreement is worth more than Resolution 1244 of the Security Council? So this lower act can't edit Resolution 1244. This act that's written on three pages in total, and three and a half rows, these three pages edit how we're going to live, how our children will live, how we're going to change all our ID cards, passports, driver's licenses, and change everything again after three years. Imagine what it's cost for citizens and what it costs for the state. Everyone interprets this agreement in their own way. You see, both in Montenegro, the SNP, the People's Party and the Serbian People's Party celebrate this agreement as the survival of the common state in their parliament. On the other hand, the ruling DPS party celebrates the agreement as an independent Montenegro, delayed for three years, and in the meantime will establish all of it, what they did not have before. The agreement means further conflicts in Serbia (they were already created yesterday); this agreement means further conflicts in Montenegro; this agreement means further conflicts in the common state. How in Serbia? Well, you see, the list is in progress. In the Raška area, or Sandzak, as the Muslims call it, you have ads on every bander that reads - Muslims, plead as Bosniaks, and take Bosnian for your language. Watch out, please, Bosnian. I would understand -- Muslim, I would understand -- Turkish, but why -- Bosnian? When was Bosnia in Serbia? Will you allow the Bosnian language to be spoken in Serbia? I ask you to understand that this is not good; the responsibility for this is to the leaders of DOS, Rasim Ljajic and Sulejman Ugljanin, they are their posters. That's not good, to whom the Serbian language bothers, were the ancestors of Muslims not Islamised Serbs? What does the Bosnian language mean? I'm asking you not to be that. But I am telling you that this agreement will irritate all chauvinists, all those who want to make their states in Serbia, and that this will go hand in hand to separatists in Vojvodina, in the Rasko area, not to mention Kosovo and Metohija, they are already celebrating this agreement, as independence of Kosovo and Metohija. (President: Time. I thank you, Madam President. The Serbian Unity Party will not vote in favour of this agreement, and I will continue my presentation in the final statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-04-0.u19717	The word is by Mr Mujo Mukovic, deputy president of the DOS-Reformists Vojvodina and the Sandzak Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-04-0.u19718	The Honorable Presidency, respected signatories of the agreement, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the position of the parliamentary club Reformist of Vojvodina and the Sandzak Democratic Party is that this agreement is the best possible solution under the given circumstances, including the international community's opinion. We have already said that it is far more important from the dilemma of the Federation or the confederacy to establish a minimum of common functions that Member States will transfer to the community. I think the Sandzak Democratic Party has been more sincere in this than many who, even then and now, have advocated the common state. This is also understandable because the Bosniak national community is particularly interested in peaceful solutions on the issue, because one part of Sandzak, as you know, is in Montenegro and the other part in Serbia. We, of course, support the internationally accepted principle of non-violence between Serbia and Montenegro. However, the border must not be an obstacle to establishing full communication between Serbia-Montenegro's citizens, as well as Bosniaks living in Serbia-Montenegro. Sandzak de facto in a cultural and spiritual sense represents a rounded continent, therefore, one region. Why is this agreement the best solution possible? When we ask the answer to that question, we have to ask another question - what was the alternative. You heard in the opening statements, and this really says that the alternative was the only difference, which from the point of view of the Bosniak national community does not suit us at all, that I am not talking about other state issues. Second, it has been established that this minimum of common functions has been established and thus halted, at least temporarily, the process of disintegration in these areas. Thirdly, a maneuvering space has been obtained in the form of a transitional period of three years, when things can go in two directions. During this period, the content of joint functions can be deepened and improved, but, truth be told, in an unfavourable development of events can be reduced or completely lost. On the one hand, we fear that in Montenegro this period will turn into a pre-referendum state that will last for three years, where minorities, as well as Bosniaks living in Montenegro (there are about 17%) will be under a permanent review of the sovereign bloc, which is not a good position for a series of whom, especially for minorities. On the other hand, this maneuvering space can be used for a more serious political organisation of Bosniaks in the Montenegrin part of Sandzak, which is what we support, which, when circumstances make them do so, could, as citizens of Montenegro, have a crucial impact on the survival of the common state. So, the starting grounds for redecorating relations between Serbia and Montenegro, although they do not guarantee the survival of the common state, give a real chance and we will therefore support this document. In the end, I'd just say a few words about the appearance of my predecessor, although that's not the subject, I think we've heard all sorts of nebulises about Muslim language here, etc., and this isn't the place for me to take some class on these things. The Bosniaks will declare how they will plead, and this state community must respect it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-04-0.u19719	Are any of the presidents of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? Please, Mr Branislav Ivkovic, president of the SPS parliamentary group. Here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-04-0.u19720	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the predecessor tried to explain my statements on the list in the Raška area, but he did not tell us whether he was in favour of speaking Serbian in Serbia, so also in the Raška area or in Sandzak, as they call him, or to speak Bosnian. Tell us, are you Bosnian in Serbia or not? If so, then you, sir, are a separatist and it is not good, because you are a member of the Serbian parliament. If so, sir, it is not fair and correct to the honest Muslims, or Bosniaks who want to be loyal citizens of the Serbian state. If you introduce the Bosnian language in Serbia, then there is nothing more from the common state. You didn't explain that to us.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-04-0.u19721	The word comes from MP Branislav Ivkovic, president of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-04-0.u19722	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. Deputy Prime Minister of the Federal Government, this speaker has been told that during the last 12 years, an uncontrollable process of decomposition has been under way in these areas. I don't think it's an uncontrollable process of decomposition... Throwing it out of the O.R. ) Madam Chairman, the same MP always has problems with the basic elements of home education. It could not be said that there has been an uncontrollable process of decomposition in these areas in the last 12 years; there has been a very controlled process of decomposition, precisely because of those who have been working towards and achieving their globalistic goals, mixed and managed by these areas. It can't be said that there was no desire for good international co-operation in these areas. There has always been a tendency to co-operate with all the important factors that really wanted and wanted well in the areas of the Balkans, especially the Serbian people who had, and today has, a fully justified desire to live together in one country. Always welcome in these areas were those who had good intentions to bring peace, prosperity, economic development, and good international co-operation. Within the Serbian people, every national community could live peacefully without any problems and was fully protected. Unfortunately, the Serbian people have been exposed very often to separatism, torture and terror, precisely from individual national communities. Of course today, the SPS is absolutely ready for good international co-operation. We have also shown in our programme declaration our desire to enter our country into the European Union. In this regard, we consider that we need to co-operate with the European Union, to have good relations and to create preconditions for our country's entry into the European Union. That is why, to say the least, it is not fair of the same European Union that in the image of the mediator, the man who is to help in these areas, sends to Solan, who is remembered in these areas and recorded in very black letters so that he remains in one of the most negative traces in the history of the Serbian people; the man who issued the order for aggression on this country; the man who is the image of destruction. It is a natural reaction to every document, which someone takes for himself to sign, as Mr. Kostunica, with present members of the Republic and the Federal Government here, that Serbian citizens estimate that it is destruction, not creation, destruction, and not a better future, because it is the image of Mr. Javier Solana. However, we had the opportunity to learn from Mr. Labus that, basically, Mr. Solana had absolutely no document when he came here and that he was really a mediator between the two documents that were prepared. On the one hand, he was Mr. Kostunica, with a DOS and SNP document, meaning the Montenegrin opposition, and on the other hand was Mr. Milo Djukanovic, with a document of Montenegro's position. Only in those negotiations were there no parliamentary Serb opposition. I repeat that it would be much easier for the negotiators to have united positions, if you want the consensus of all political important parties, parliamentary parties, because, if anything else, they could call on the opposition and be much more firm in the negotiations and perhaps achieve a far better result. On the other hand, they took for themselves the right to negotiate, and they didn't even ask us to do it, what they took for granted to sign, and they didn't ask us if they would do it and what someone now wants us here in parliament to adopt what others already signed, in fact, to be juryd for other people's actions. We won't do that. But we must say -- if you negotiated Mr. Kostunica and you, Mr. Djindjic and Labuse, with your documents, the three of you, and Mr. Milo Djukanovic and Filip Vujanovic with your document, the two of them, you lost the war, because you three, menly speaking, were defeated by the two because you had Mr. Solana in front of you. What's Mr. Solana's identity? Mr Solana is the image of the European Union. How did the European Union become? The European Union has become the so-called "functionist model." The Englishman David Mitrani developed a theory "by writing", which means "world by piece", a theory that meant that states start to co-operate in areas that are least problematic. The least problematic areas are economy, science, technology. So Mr. Solana was the image of it. Mr. Solana was supposed to be a figure of collecting pieces in areas that are least problematic, and precisely in this European Union, as it was created, in the roots of Mr. Jean Monnet, who theoretically worked it out... (President: Mr Ivkovic, please return to the topic of not giving us a lecture on the European Union. ) Mr. Jean Monnet and Mr. Robert Shuman, Minister at the time, in the '50s, France, essentially created a European Union with this theory of "bi-pissis". This means, in the least neural areas, and primarily in the economy, in science and technology, to bring countries together. You had Mr. Solana who certainly had that theory because he represented the European Union and you didn't win that battle, because this document, which is signed, guarantees essential sovereignty, which is economic sovereignty. At a time when we have one coin in Europe, one customs union, free flow of goods, resources, money, literally one central bank, Mr. Solana convinces the two of them against Kostunica and the two of you here to accept two separate markets, two customs systems, two banks, two coins. What kind of state is that? No state, absolutely. You should say that. That negotiating battle is won. How are we gonna fix it? We will fix it by, as the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, a parliament in which MPs who have been elected to work for them, to think of them, to think about their future and the future of generation in these areas, we say - we want the state. You gentlemen have done well, you have negotiated, you have shown good intentions, you have not done well in these negotiations. This parliament has the right to say it does not want to accept such a thing. We simply do not want to accept a document that does not guarantee a normal state in the basic, essential space, which is an economic space that guarantees development and a better standard for citizens of Serbia, a country that is intended for separatism and destruction over the next three years. He can also talk about turning around (reveal, if that's true)-- in fact, the negotiations weren't three to two and one neutral, but it was three to three. Then tell the truth. Mr. Javier Solana came to finish the job that began on March 24, 1999. Say -- at that green table at the Federation Palace there were three to three, say -- Solana came to thank Milo Djukanovic, who helped in the essential intentions of taking down the Socialists and Slobodan Milosevic from power. When you came to power, you spoke in your election campaigns - put Slobodan Milosevic away, we will preserve Yugoslavia, we will preserve good relations with Milo Djukanovic and Montenegro. Mr. Kostunica is not here, but when we entered as a banana (177) The state of the United Nations, he spoke - we saved Yugoslavia. How did we save Yugoslavia? Yugoslavia is nowhere, Yugoslavia no longer exists. She really went to Marica. That's what this is all about. Then say it was three to three. We have to ask you why you signed it. Let him sign one, and why did you two do it? You shouldn't have done it for future space. That's why we Socialists don't want to verify this document; we want something else, we want to give our opinion. This parliament should not adopt something that someone has signed. This parliament can reach a conclusion on the document it has been offered. In that sense, the SPS and I as president of the parliamentary group, we asked that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs , as a body that conducts a previous debate, as a body that assists this Parliament's work, consider this document that is inevitably intruding into the constitutional arrangement of our country; and that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is considering our proposal for conclusions that we have submitted to the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. [[elevator in the O.R.]] I would like to inform you that the SPS parliamentary group, and I signed it, has submitted a proposal for conclusions to the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. In this act, we propose an evaluation of this document and demand that a constitutional commission be formed... (President: Mr. Ivkovic, you've exceeded your time. )......................................................................................................... on the parity principle (I am finishing immediately), as well as to make it a constitutional document. Our proposal is for the constitutional document to go to a referendum and to accept the citizens of Serbia. In all, we today have a document signed by the president of the SRJ, the vice-president of the federal government and the president of the Republic government, a document that the Socialists will not accept, a document that we consider not to guarantee the survival of the common state of the Serbian and Montenegrin peoples and other peoples living in the SRJ. Simply because there is no fundamental element of sovereignty within it, which is economic sovereignty, we suggest that the conclusion we have proposed for this assembly - that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is meeting, forming a committee and in line with the desire to establish good co-operation with the international community, the European Union is proposing a more appropriate document guaranteeing the survival of the SRJ. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-04-0.u19723	Thank you. The word is from Mr Marko Petrovic, president of the DOS-New Serbia parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-04-0.u19724	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Vice-President of the Federal Government, as representative of the New Serbia Parliament Club, whose position on this issue has been known in the public for ten days now, I remind you: we are against adopting such a document, by letting it know that if the signatories of this agreement, some of which are present here, and some of them are not, in their opening statements, taking some of the facts that we have so far from the press, I will explain later and why, because from other sources we could not find out -- it is possible to change our position. But right now, let me tell the gentlemen here, who takes this situation so unseriously that we can smile, and to their enthusiasm, we haven't changed this attitude, gentlemen. Now I allow you to be a little serious. So, what happened here in the meantime? From the cabinet session (March 22nd) to the moment when MPs received this document, until the session of this parliament with this agenda, only six days passed. In those six days, nothing new has happened, and we, as a parliamentary group, as well as some other DOS parliamentary groups, will not support this document. Of course, we expected Mr. Kostunica, president of the federal state to be present here as the first signatories and to explain to us what's been going on these few months in the negotiations. We couldn't find out anywhere, except here, in these few exhibits how many Prime Ministers and the Vice President of the Federal Government have brought to us here. So something was going on behind the cover, and we didn't know what was going on! At the same time, we couldn't make a different decision. Mr. Kostunica did not come here to expose to us the beginning of this session the fact that it was the backdrop of all the agreements. Of course, Mr. Djindjic and Mr. Labus did, and we thank them for that. There is one small problem: Mr. Labus also said that only 5% of what was the DOS initial document was accepted. All right, and that's politics, 5% might be enough if you ask for a lot. We think it is insufficient and that this document is just as unserious as the former Yugoslavia, the one Yugoslavia, which, after the adoption of this document, is clearly going to be adopted, will no longer exist. So this document is just as unserious, which, of course, will show time. Also, an apology that the Yugoslav and Serbian public are not familiar with this document, that MPs are not familiar with the content of this document, is not some excuse for what happened, I repeat, from 26 March to today, for these five or six days. The result of all this is that this parliament has been put into a teat; this is shown by the quorum problems, shows also the disobedience or indiscipline of that political group in DOS, the DSS, which has announced that it will vote for this, and at the same time is not present here. All of it, that time teat these 250 people were put in shows that we're still going to make something quick. So we can't stand behind the document that's being brought in quickly. We ask ourselves: is it possible to bring one such document quickly; and is it possible, after all, to make one third, fourth or which Yugoslavia this way? Is it possible to do again what we did on the Frog and in the Eggs and where we didn't? Is it possible to make the same mistakes again? Of course, it is possible, but one thing will not be possible; that this document is not voted here; and in what, knowing the background and the mood of the MPs, I do not believe; this document will be voted obviously. However, if voted, in subsequent procedures for the completion of this document and all the legal acts that will follow it, we will be actively involved as a parliamentary group, especially in one thing - to arrange the elements of things that all Yugoslavia has so far praised, whaled and embellished, which are: the right veto; the key that was introduced in relation to federal units, parity; then we all finance this community, and only some of them benefit from it, according to how small or large they are. Therefore, there is another problem that is being imposed there: if it were not the background of all this and 30,000 employees in the federal administration who work here in Belgrade; that it was not the background of not accepting this 30,000 people, who work parallel to our republican state administration, that they could not be here (bought from all over the former Yugoslavia and make up one parallel state, which we, even we from DOS, are very often talking about); that there is no problem with the survival of those 30,000, and I can freely say the phantom employees, who will not know what we are doing in that parallel state. The next thing you know, the very interesting thing is what these MPs of the future assembly are going to do, how they're going to choose. It's very interesting and, according to all of this, I think the future discussion, which will last twice as long here as usual, will most likely not bring about a change in our attitude, which is negative this time.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-04-0.u19725	The word is Mrs Nada Kolundzija, president of the DOS parliamentary group - Democratic Alternative.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-04-0.u19726	The Honorable Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Prime Minister, Vice-President, the Honorable fellow Members of the People's Parliament, what we are discussing today, and what we should generally say if we try to be responsible and take care of what needs to contribute to Serbia's better position in the future, then we will try to install, or at least propose what a document called the Constitutional Charter should contain as guarantees of Serbia's protection of Serbia's interest in a community of Serbia-Montenegro. What we have today is actually the end of a disintegration process that's been going on for the last 10 years. This is the result of a policy that thought the state was defending itself by sending soldiers to Slovenia, Croatia, Bosnia, which is killing and which ultimately remains something that was not the state they wanted to defend. There remains something not even a comprehensive Serbia, because one part of Serbia is under international rule. So we here now have to answer a few key questions -- do some think that this Yugoslavia should be defended by the military, and if they need to come out and say so. So let us not deceive citizens that a state that is a community of the two republics can be defended by force and created by force. It can only be created with the goodwill of both federal units and a measure of goodwill to create a common state. This document that we have today is a minimum of that common goodwill. Serbia has neither been allowed to stand up nor can be placed as someone great, as a big brother who has the right to blackmail and threatens to stay with him, otherwise he will get beaten. That's how someone used to do it, and we've always been beaten up and we've always been the victims of such a policy. Some say that Slobodan Jovanovic would roll over in a grave if he saw a constitutional concept like this, and I think Slobodan Jovanovic has been rolling over in the grave since 1945, since no constitutional concept is something that would survive in normal law. So what's important now is that on the one hand, those who advocate a strong Federation (even there are those who want a unitary state here, because they also think that Montenegrins are Serbs and that they have no right to question their own status) have to say how they think they do it; and, if that is the force, then most Serbian citizens are certainly not for it. On the other hand, there are those who believe Serbia should go through its own statehood, but then let them answer one question before -- how should Serbia do so at this time, in which there is no sovereignty over one part of its territory. Let them answer that, or how they will restore sovereignty over that part of the territory, whether they will again send soldiers against the international community to restore sovereignty. Let them say it publicly, and then they will see if Serbian citizens support such an option or not. I don't think they support it. What we are trying to do today and those who were authorized negotiators are not being questioned, and I think it is wrong to question the status of those who talked about this; never the nations talk about it, always the ones who are authorized to talk, because I can't imagine what the people would look like. In doing so, there are those who think that as a constructive opposition, they could contribute with their firm stand, and their firm attitudes have led us here, and I think it was not good for them to participate and help with their firm attitudes. So now we need to talk about what our goals are, what Serbia's interest is. Serbia's interest is to be part of European integration. European integration is the only guarantee of maintaining Serbia's sovereignty. Only in European integration can we preserve our territories and we can count on Kosovo and Metohija to be part of a set called Serbia. This agreement guarantees us the approximation of European integration, and that is what is important. Another important issue for us is the Kosovo and Metohija issue. Do we protect Kosovo and Metohija in a community with Montenegro, with guarantees from the European Union, with co-operation with the international community or Kosovo and the Metohija, imposing our views on Montenegro, ignoring their right to ask themselves what kind of community they want to live in and whether we give Albanians the right to say so too - here in Belgrade they want to force themselves and forcely impose a solution on us. Then they will receive support from the international community that they have nothing to do with such a Belgrade. We think we have to show that we understand what the world looks like, how the world works and how the rules work. With this agreement, we show it. No one should be fooled that this document is something where Serbia is equally close to some solid state or some independent status. So, we're in this agreement somewhere in the middle, but what's good with the current situation is that in this way Serbia has the opportunity to protect its interests in that community. In this community, which was created by force, the state-of-the-art constitution, Serbia had no opportunity to protect its interests and was constantly paying a high price for such a state-run community. One who will not admit that Montenegro functions as an independent state, and that Serbia acts as a state dependent on independent Montenegro, it will not recognise what was done in the previous period. So, Serbia is creating this kind of relationship with itself to protect its own interests, and what I think is important, which among the conclusions of the Serbian Parliament should stand, in the constitutional charter, as the highest document to develop relations between Serbia and Montenegro, is the decree that the Security Council Resolution, which gives Kosovo and Metohija its seat-finishestatus, is passed on to Serbia. This would allow Serbia with its constitution, which would follow, to define the Kosovo and Metohija issue after a transitional period.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-04-0.u19727	The word is from MP Bojan Kostreš, president of the DOS parliamentary group - the League of Social Democrats Vojvodina and the League for the Shumadi.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-04-0.u19728	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the Social Democrats League Group of the League and the League for the Shumadi League will support this proposal, for the simple reason we think it could not be achieved at this moment. We think that the people who represented our country at these talks have achieved something that is most real at this point and that was the only thing that could be achieved. We in the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina think this is only a transitional solution to an independent Serbia, internationally recognised Serbia, Serbia that will be recognizable in Europe and that will be part of Europe. We think that during this period until this independent Serbia we should define what the future Serbia will look like, of which it will be, bordered, what regions and what provinces it will have in it, so whether it will be a Federation or a regional state. That's what we think should be defined during this period. Also, what needs to be defined in the period ahead of us is to agree once already whether Serbia is a national state or Serbia is a state of citizens? Our opinion is that Serbia must in any case be a state of citizens, a federal, modern state. We don't regret Yugoslavia, because, according to us, Yugoslavia hasn't existed since 1991. All the rest were some Milosevic's creations. The Frog Constitution has given us only one attempt to create a great Serbia and we think it is not good and it is good that we end up with that name - Yugoslavia. Anyone who regrets the Frog Constitution and the frog's Yugoslavia actually regrets the concept of Milosevic's great Serbia, and it will actually go the same way as Milosevic. He may not go to The Hague, but he'll go to the dump site of history. What I have to say is that it bothers us in Vojvodina, and to object to the people who spoke on our behalf, is that Vojvodina is not consulted, that the Vojvodina administration is not involved in these talks. Unlike the Batocina municipality, Vojvodina was a constituent element of the former Yugoslavia. So, Vojvodina, as a constituent element of the former Yugoslavia, has not been consulted, is not included in these talks -- thus continuing with the tradition of the Milosevic, frogish Yugoslavia and its anti-constitutional and purgatory coming to power. He came to power in 1988 with the coup and violation of the Constitution, and by not recognising and not including the Vojvodina in these talks, our delegation extended it, and that is our biggest complaint to the negotiators. Another thing that must be clearly defined in the period ahead of us is that the new community will be financed, how Serbia will finance itself; let us think that, in accordance with the money that is brought from certain regions to Serbia and into the common budget, so should the political influence and political power. One more thing, I have to look back at yesterday's event and Mr. Kostunica's lack of presence at this session. I understand the man, he, besides Stjepan Mesic, is the only politician from this space who has succeeded in his mandate to break up the country he is chairing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-04-0.u19729	Thank you. Are any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The word has the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Dr Zoran Djindjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-04-0.u19730	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to say something about the critical remarks referred to on this proposal. I do not mean the details of this proposal, because this is a concept, which only through the actual works of the Constitutional Commission, whose members will be elected from this Parliament, will be specified and what will then be declared by this assembly. I want to say something in principle, because this is about a concept that rests on several of its internal limitations and several assumptions, and it was the subject of all negotiations. As I said in the first report, I don't think it was real much more and much better to do, if we talk about these basics. If we talk about some details, surely, in any situation we can do more, but I don't think the essence would be much changed. And we've heard that this proposal isn't good, that this plan isn't good, but I don't think anyone said it wasn't a realistic insinuation heard convincing arguments that it was possible for a better, realistic one. So, the fact is that our reality is not good and the fact is that we can't come up with some ambitious programs to solve our problems, because our problems are abandoned, our problems are also historic, our crises are not only due to the poor management of the country, although there has been a stage of catastrophic land management, but it has only accelerated our crisis. We inherited structural crises in the region; the problem of defining national statehood, which we did not solve in the 19th century because of the relationship between the great forces that existed; the country and nation, which Europe solved 200 or 300 years ago, is being resolved here these days. We need to be aware that these are the consequences of huge tectonic disorders on the globe, where we are the last part of Europe still shaking. And the one who doesn't see it, he doesn't see reality. We need to understand that the sooner we stop it, the more chance we have of our children and our grandchildren doing something reasonable in these areas in the future. So I know the plan isn't good, but I know he's good enough to stop disintegrating processes and that it depends on us to what extent we'll work constructively in the future. If there are more destructive than constructive forces, this plan is too weak to stop it, but it is the consequence of the process that occurred in these areas in the previous decades or perhaps in the previous centuries. What critics have not put into discussion at any time, when they have suggested something better, is that other partner, namely, Montenegro. The question is -- what was he and what is half of Montenegro's citizens ready to accept as some kind of compromise. It's not about Solana, as Mr. Labus said. Of course, Solana, I will tell you very openly, came and said - the European Union's position is that you agree. Since you cannot agree on how to hold a referendum in Montenegro, there will also be a conflict -- whether a referendum can be held that will recognise both sides. Since Montenegro, according to public opinion polls, is divided half-half, there is no referendum, because there will be conflict. So, agree, the leadership of Montenegro and the opposition of Montenegro, means, two sides representing half-half Montenegro, and representatives of Serbia-Yugoslavia, agree, whatever you agree, the European Union will accept. The only thing the European Union can't accept is that you don't make a deal. The situation was such that the agreement was not in sight, because it was a controversial fundamental thing: whether it would be one state, with an internationally recognised subjectivity in foreign policy, and this is the symbol of a "one chair"; it is not a "one chair", but a matter of the international character of that state; or whether it will be two states, two internationally recognised states, which will then seek their own ties. It was a stumbling block, and until the last night, until the last moment, there was no compromise. And when a compromise was reached there, some other consequences and some other compromises followed. I have tried personally, and in various ways, to influence that this other Montenegrin side, which is for independence, accepts both without international intervention and without international pressure "one chair", which means one country, but it has not brought success. I can tell you, with full responsibility, that the position of half of Montenegro, meaning the part that was for independence, was very hard until the last moment, at the cost of going to the separation, and that of the referendum, with the disputed legitimacy, with all the consequences that would follow. We've had enough of this in our previous history. We're sick of somebody saying-- well, I'm gonna do it, and then let's see what happens, I'm gonna play with matches in the gunpowder, and then, when he starts shooting, then I'm gonna say-- well, let some firefighters come and put it out, probably maybe I didn't cause it, but somebody else planted it. We must be very responsible and, as I said yesterday, aware of the high degree of risk that exists today in the region. Look at the state of the region today - just please look at the state of the region today compared to Europe, what is the political situation and what is the economic situation. We have Romania, which after ten years of enthusiasm in the first wave -- no more Ceausescu family, no more Securitate, democracy comes -- after a year of democracy, miners tear down the government, then five times change governments. And today we have a government that is virtually similar to the one that was at the beginning, with huge problems in the organisation of society, in the economy of the poor population. Let's look at Bulgaria -- the Prime Minister is the emperor, the president of the communist state. Let's look at Macedonia -- deeply divided, warring country. Let's look at Albania, the ruling party torn, a major crisis in society. Let's look at Montenegro, see Bosnia and Herzegovina, see Croatia. And finally, the only bright spot in international public opinion, the only thing hoping for is the integral force of democratic processes in Serbia. Read the reports... I like the principle of those who trust themselves and do not trust the reports of international expert groups. [[Applause]] They were principled and they didn't believe when those expert groups told them what was going to happen. Unfortunately, that's what happened. Fortunately, now these expert groups, and the World Bank, and the International Monetary Fund and the European Union, say -- Serbia is a country that can reunite the region. With its democratic processes, Serbia can run a very problematic region towards European integration, ladies and gentlemen, provided Serbia is able to solve the problems ahead. One of the problems is the character of the common state. For too long, this question has been open to us, hoping to solve it in a better way, to wait, to risk a new crisis in that space. The new crisis was very close to the issue of organising a referendum in Montenegro: under which conditions will be organised; which percentages are enough for one or the other to be in the majority; and if the other side does not accept the legitimacy of the referendum, what will then be done; what will happen when tens of thousands of people go to the streets to protest, either on the one hand or on the other. It was programmed for this year. So those who hope that it might come to that soon, they had their chance to wage their wars. You've had your chance to wage wars and you've shown this people the price of it. Let those who want to win in peace... Ladies and gentlemen, the patriots have led Serbia into wars, where there should be glory, and gain and increase of territory. [[Applause]] After all these wars, Serbia was both smaller and weaker. For the first time now, we have the opportunity to become strong in peace and allow those forces in this society who want to take responsibility for themselves to try. You've had a chance to try and show what you know and know; 12 years, and 50 years before that. So, you want another 100 years? We have a year and a half behind us and you already measure that year and a half as if it were more than your 50-60s. It's not. So the very unpleasant thing I have to tell you -- that's that we're going to have to be realistic in solving our problems. [[Sagar.]] Not only with regard to Montenegro and not only with regard to the future state. We have two more big problems ahead of us in the next two or three years. The second problem is Kosovo and Metohija, and third co-operation with the International Court in The Hague. So we solved the first problem this way. Another problem in this congregation, in this public, we should also put it on the agenda, so let's see, let's not stick our heads in the sand, which is waiting for us in two, three or five years. The moment will come very soon. There's no such thing as empty patriotism, ladies and gentlemen. The fact that there's something in your heart isn't enough. It's got to be in your head, and it's not enough to be in your stomach. In the head! So we need a serious debate on what we will do in two or three years, when the issue of Kosovo's status and Metohija is on the agenda, and this will come on the agenda, because the constitution of Kosovo and Metohija, the Thai framework, is also scheduled for three years. [[Applause]] Maybe it'll go on. Something may happen positively in the meantime, but we, as responsible people, already have to make some consensus in society and some options about potential solutions. The third question is co-operation with international organisations, which are not only likable to our people and our people, but also unsympathetic. We also need to have some consensus here, to get to that fourth thing, which is important to us, which is the arrangement of Serbia itself through a democratic constitution. All of us have to do this in the next two or three years to be prepared for what we all want, which is the European Union. Because we have to resolve the issue of our state status, of our constitution, of our arrangement, in order to run, because we cannot enter that union as an unresolved, unregulated state, means something where they are very strictly regulated among their members, which is the European Union. So these are painful stages on our way out of the DJ century. We solve problems that our ancestors in the DJ century couldn't solve, because they had the Austro-Hungarian Empire, the Turkish Empire and we were constrained among them. And, of course, England, Russia, France, which led their politics, a little for one, a little for the other, across our backs. That's what we now have as a legacy and we can't choose here. So we have to solve these problems as soon as possible to address the problems of the J.J.I. century. And that's a question -- economics, that's a question -- standards, that's a question -- jobs. How is our region currently standing? So 50 million people living in all these countries that I've counted have the same gross social product as Greece, which has nine million inhabitants. This means that 50 million people living around us, together with us, produce as much annually as Greece, which has ten times fewer inhabitants. It's our economic strength. It's the power we count on when we talk about force, when we talk about the conflicts we're willing to engage in. So let's be realistic. We're very dried up. We don't have the energy to spend it on finding the ideal solutions. We need to concentrate our national and civil energy on resolving these issues, one by one, so that we can turn to the most important issues, which is the standard of our population and the involvement of the European Union. Therefore - aware of the objections that the heads of the parliamentary clubs have made and agreed with the majority of criticism that this solution is very problematic, very transparent - very frankly: that is what I think too. But I think it's the best possible real solutions, and that's why I recommend that you, as MPs of the opposition, think about it one more time, because this really isn't a party issue, and no one has participated in this from the point of view and the agenda of your party. In all the programs of all our parties, it's about real federalism. There is no party whose members participated in the negotiations, which is political or ideological for the solution that is now being offered. No, from the point of view of our party programmes, this is a very missing solution, as well as from the point of view of your party programs. But I ask you, this time, to overcome party programmes and to show the world that the Serbian Parliament is one body of the highest sovereignty of citizens, who, responsibly and consciously, will stand behind one realistic concept and say, despite everything we resent, we are aware that this leads us one step further, we will vote for it, we will try to fill that country with its real political content and that in three years it is much better than it is now in this proposal. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-04-0.u19731	I thank Mr. Prime Minister. The word is by MP Momcilo Trajkovic, according to Article 89. Rules of Procedure. Limited time is five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-04-0.u19732	The honourable MPs, dear guests, in short, are really a key issue - how to stop the disintegration processes in the Balkans; can we take the position that follows us, and that is the geostrategic position that we are, in fact, the key partner of the international community in the Balkans, are we going to take that position, so that we can solve all our issues completely. I really think that we need to find a solution that needs to be a nucleus of integration in both our country and the Balkans. Is this the best? Apparently they say it's not good. I am a supporter of a truly common state, and if we fail to find a common language with those political forces, with which we naturally need to find a common language, then the question arises: when will we start the process of disintegration? However, I have one reserve, and this reserve applies primarily to the Kosovo and Metohija issue. The reason, also mentioned by Professor Pelevic, is the question: is the agreement sufficient guarantee to replace Resolution 1244, especially given that Resolution 1244 actually guarantees the sovereignty of Yugoslavia in that part of our territory. I think it was necessary to make efforts to get stronger guarantees, above all, of the Security Council, so that we could get into these processes more freely. Otherwise, I doubt we can have a guarantee that in three years, Kosovo and Metohija really stay within Serbia, or the common state. Let me remind you, we have said that the constitutional framework is against Resolution 1244 and we have brought this declaration here, that elections in Kosovo and Metohija are unacceptable, so we have accepted it. We passed the Law on Local Self-Government, in which we did not treat Kosovo and Metohija as part of Serbia. Here, now these days a list is being made in Serbia without Kosovo and Metohija. And now, in the end, we accept one document in which there is no, I want to repeat it once again, there is not enough guarantee for me that Kosovo and Metohija will really be part of the sovereign, that is, part of our common state that we are creating today. That's the most delicate question for me, which is why I think we should ask for enough guarantees, I think we still have to look for more guarantees to make it happen. Mr Batic has a very interesting idea - an independent Serbia. I'm not far from it either, but politics must be brought into line when it comes to Serbia and Kosovo and Metohija. The policy leading towards Kosovo and Metohija today is very dangerous for me, and all the moves that have been made so far have only always distanced Kosovo and Metohija from Serbia. God forbid I am right, I will do everything to help Kosovo and Metohija, however, be part of Serbia's sovereign, that is, our future state. Here, I've had so much. I believe that this insufficiently defined attitude towards Kosovo and Metohija is very dangerous and that all those who seek an independent Kosovo, especially Albanians, are celebrating it, and I hope that Serbia will make an effort not to give them the satisfaction. Otherwise, I think we'll take great responsibility if we don't stop these processes. Albanians believe this agreement is actually another step closer to its independence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-04-0.u19733	We are continuing a unique search on the starting grounds according to the order of the registered speakers. The first speaker is Mr. Rodoljub Sabic, followed by MP Zoran Cirkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-04-0.u19734	Dear ladies and gentlemen, ever since the first time this document was presented to the public, this document has, in a very obvious way, caused serious polarisation and completely conflicting views. And today it is clear that there are several politically organized groups of people who have completely conflicting views and who, at first sight, have nothing to do with this document, not so much with the content of this document as with its possible conconsequences cannot agree. I'm starting to think there's something we have to agree on. This is a historic moment, and there's no pathetic. Every time a national parliament discusses a document, whose adoption should be represented and that it has the consequence of some transposit of global relations, two peoples, two states, the adoption of a new constitution, that is, a historic moment. As such, it implies that participants of that moment set certain standards of conduct and define their relationship to that moment. To begin with, it certainly excludes such small, small, irresponsible games with a lack of quorum in the Assembly, and in any case excludes iglom, smir, false pathos, false emotions and, in particular, some kind of virtual projection, some sort of supposedly existing reality and allegedly existing past. So, what exactly are we doing right now? Are we giving some kind of professional evaluation of some seminar at the constitutional law column, gentlemen who are not students of the second year of law, or are we actually making a political decision? Mr. Kostunica, Djindjic, Labus, have not submitted to us here some piece of paper that should be the ideal of their views on the arrangement of a complex state. They brought us something that was the result of painful and difficult, serious and hard negotiations with another group of politicians, who in this context represented some interests that did not coincide with ours. They brought and said, gentlemen, we don't consider this ideal either, but that's what we could and we suggest you accept it. You gentlemen decide, not them. This agreement still does not oblige us, we will accept it or we will not accept it, but by making that decision we cannot manage our ideals about the fine, ideal theoretical constitutional and legal solutions of complex states or our beautiful desires. It would be wonderful if we could now declare and adopt here principles of the American Constitution, or German or why not Swiss, but we can't. So we have to manage what is realistically possible. And it's not true that we actually have three options here. There are two options here. At this point, we can decide on a quick momentary, de facto break-up of relations with Montenegro, with all the conconsequences it carries, I mean extremely serious conconsequences, perhaps even inconceivable from this position. I kind of understand the opinion of those who advocated it yesterday as a possible concept, I share the view that it is an attractive opinion, but I don't believe that it sees possible, possibly catastrophic, consequences of such a quick definition. Another solution is what we are offered: a loose state alliance, a strange state form, a confederation that may not exist anywhere, but something that is defined after all. I say a more realistic loose confederate than a virtual Federation. The third solution is gone. Those who claim to be here today we decide to liquidate Yugoslavia, do what I said at the beginning that it's actually forbidden, projecting virtual reality. So, which one of those Yugoslavias doesn't have anymore? One who was the leader of all the free-loving countries of the world, the one who defeated the NATO Pact in the war, the one who had brilliant foreign policy solutions, thus building herself a fantastic position, a confederate with Greece, a pact with Russia and Belarus, the one that had a phenomenal economy, in which a young man could be enriched by millions of marks. You're definitely not here. If they think of another Yugoslavia, then they have to come out and tell us how many years before the arrival of the DOS in the government in Montenegro de facto does not apply the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, how many years do federal laws apply, how many years do the decisions of the federal government and decisions of the federal authorities of the administrations not apply in Montenegro? Does the Yugoslav money apply in Montenegro, does it work in Montenegro, the National Bank of Montenegro? It's not working, gentlemen. So let's forget that story. Today we decide which solution we will accept: whether we choose what we are offered or are for the immediate end of relations and for the independent path of Serbia in the world. I'm saying, what we're offered is better, at least for two reasons, not getting into an analysis, in the contents of a document for which, of course, given its own personal ideals about some kind of organization of the state, I don't think it's good, but I know it's possible. So it has at least two values: one thing is that it's virtually converted into reality; one Federation that only existed imaginaryly will become one real confederation; and another, which people, why not new people, and new processes that can be combined with processes that are dominant in our environment, get a chance for three years. They've been in the history of seconds for three years, but they're a little bit saddened. In the name of being indisputable, the Social Democratic MPs will vote as the government proposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-04-0.u19735	The word is by MP Zoran Ćirkovic, followed by MP Novica Đuraskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-04-0.u19736	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Serbian Prime Minister, Vice-President of the Federal Government, respected journalists and gallery guests, New Serbia's position on the paper was expressed by the head of the parliamentary group. I'm simply saying that I'm just commenting on the provisions of this text, so I'm going to do it in a taxicab order as it's written in the text. It is good that the Agreement is agreed upon for discussion and verification in the congregations of the member states of the future common state. That's what this first chapter of the Initial Foundation is about. Second, the Constitutional Charter, as a surrogate for the constitution of the common state, to its surrogate state. Under three, the initial review provision revitalises the intentions of the signatories of this paper and the High Representative of the European Union as a witness. This country is on glass feet, even if it survives a grace period of three years, how much hope it will be on the oxygen of the international community. The name of the state union - it would be a better common state than the state community. It is certain that the name Serbia-Montenegro is better than the former name Yugoslavia, however, is somewhat weaker than the real name that the common state of Serbians and Montenegrins is called New Serbia. Here, we as a party are prepared to sacrifice our party name on the altar of the common homeland. The agreement provides for five joint institutions, which are well-attracted: a) it is difficult to imagine the mechanisms of alleged overvote protection, and that the mechanism protects the principle of political justice and justice; what is certain, the future Serbian-Montenegro Assembly will be impossible to decide; b) a solution on the president of Serbia-Montenegro, who is also the president of the government of the common state, is not badly proposed, we just don't know how it will function because the cabinet of the Prime Minister is seriously reduced, and its powers are severely restricted. Indeed, once again, I underline -- it would be much better if this paper were to stand -- the basics of the common state, than the state community. What is this consistency of foreign policy, if the intended rotation in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the proverbial dissent is at the beginning of the disabled? What is the unity of command in an army commanded by consensus? How can internal economic relations function in a coherent manner if a common coin does not work? These are the dilemmas that make New Serbia truly skeptical of this agreement. Serbia-Montenegro's court provides for constitutional -- judicial and administrative -- judicial functions, and has no institutional jurisdiction whatsoever. Well, then that looks like a country peace council. Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, New Serbia has made fundamental remarks on this paper that is on the agenda today. We do not dispute the need of a common state, the common state should exist. The common state was established in 1918 at the Grand Podgorica Assembly, when Montenegrin chiefs decided to unite with Serbia. Montenegro has never united with the state of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians, nor with Yugoslavia. Montenegro is part of the Serbian state. Of course, since this paper mentions the historical rights and rights of the statehood of Serbia and Montenegro, it is indeed true. The Berlin Congress created two Serbian states or, rather, principalities: the Principality of Serbia and the Principality of Montenegro. Why were two made? Two were made, due to the free phobia that Austria had towards the creation of a new Serbia. Two countries were made for the reason that Bosnia and Herzegovina became the protectorate of the Austro-Hungarian monarchy. Two states were made and a corridor was made between them, which remained in the Ottoman Empire. The corridor is a plural and new market Sandzak, along with the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. The only problem that could not then be created was the dynastic clashes between Petrovic and Obrenovic's dynasty. The moment there was a dynasty shift on the Serbian throne, and when Petrovic's dynasty was compromised enough in Montenegro, the dynastic problems were no longer an obstacle to the common state. If we're talking about the actual state, if we're talking about some continuity, Mr. Prime Minister, your government is in continuance with that Serbia that established this symbol. However, AVNOJ's symbol was removed from the common state, the one still called Yugoslavia, but this AVNOS is not. Approximately, this is the AVNOS symbol. You said, Mr. Prime Minister, Communism has fallen. I'm expressing my suspicion; as long as there is this satanic sign on your government's memo, I doubt that Communism has fallen. The Montenegrin nation is a product of communism. The moment communism falls, the Montenegrin nation will return to its wing, return to its natural waterway, return to its country's queen, return to its native people, return to Serbia. When from a natural stream, let the east take its own course, there is a gravitational need to return to its queen. If he doesn't come back, it'll only become a gunpowder or more dead. If there's a gunpowder or a dead body, it'll be a mosquito litter. The mosquitoes are treated with dodithium, and the queens need to be protected by a sanitary corridor. So before we use it to do (i am not for such drastic measures), let us make a common state in which the Serbian people, as a native people, as a state-of-the-art people, will finally have a state of trust. So, the need for the existence of a common state, once again, we respect, but we are not prepared to support the envisaged modes written in this paper. Once again, I thank you, and on behalf of the New Serbia Parliament Club, I will also speak in the final word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-04-0.u19737	The word has been issued by MP Novica Djuraskovic, after which, MP Dragan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-04-0.u19738	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the distinguished guests, were talking yesterday and today about the document offered to us, history was being discussed. We've been going back from 80 to a couple of hundred years, and I'm just going to remind myself of some events over the last year. The head of the Social Democrats League Group of Vojvodina, which I belong to, said, and I will repeat: "The League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina thought and today believes that representatives of Vojvodina should have participated in these talks. "SRJ President Vojislav Kostunica remained deaf to the proposals. He felt, like his predecessor, who is now where he is, that it was better to decide and ignore others than to sit down and talk. We've finally come to what we've been offered, which I don't think we should say. The first paragraph says that the document is referred to congregations for discussion, not adoption. Based on the opinion and possibly the conclusions that we will draw and adopt, which will be in line with the opinions expressed here and vote, will be joined by a constitutional charter. So, ladies and gentlemen, let's say, let's put our minds together, let's say what we think, put that on paper, adopt that and make it possible to make a constitutional charter. I must point out one more thing: the text of the Constitutional Charter will be drawn up by a commission whose members are delegates to the Serbia, Montenegro and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. I must remind you, as well as all citizens of Serbia, that there is another assembly in this country, because if the president of the SRJ is elected by the will of the citizens, then the Vojvodina Assembly is also elected by the will of the citizens of Vojvodina. If he participated in the talks and the formulation of this agreement, and he did, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, I must remind you that Vojvodina also has an Executive Greater, Government and Prime Minister of that government. We cannot ignore the fact that Vojvodina exists. In all this work that awaits us, which I think will be well completed, the writing of the Constitutional Charter must include representatives of the Vojvodina. In order to give up once more disrespecting the views of the citizens of certain regions, not to say an area of two and a half million people such as Vojvodina, we must finally understand and give the right to tell us what we think, to respect our opinion on how Serbia should look arranged and how we can all find a place in that Serbia. I hear from some that they're dealing with the Serbian national interest. Gentlemen, none of you who are talking about the Serbian national interest has defined the Serbian national interest so far. I'll tell you, I'm a Serb, both father and mother, and grandparents, etc. I'm a Serb at birth, not a Serb by profession. What is the national interest of Serbs, what is the national interest of all citizens and of all national communities in this country? In my opinion, it's a well-organized rich country, and every citizen of this country is equal to the citizen of the state they live in right now; it's there because some of them have driven him away, which made it impossible for him to live here; let's try to get those people back. And if we can't get them back, we can make a country that will have enough influence in the world to allow them to be equal citizens of that country where they live. It is the national interest of both Serbs and all citizens of this country as well as those who are not in this country now. Let us try to accept the reality of what it is - that we no longer call Free Milosevic, or The Hague, or the former government, without saying her name that I would not give a chance for a replica, but that we simply realize that this is inevitable and that we have to get out of this only united one; that we are able to admit that we are in a situation where we are in the next three years and that we are trying to find a solution to these problems that have accumulated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-04-0.u19739	The word is made by MP Dragan Markovic, and then by MP Bratoljub Janackovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-04-0.u19740	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Vice-President of the Government, the Soviet Union feels that this agreement is not good, and we wanted to propose a single solution - to call a referendum, to bring one and another people to the referendum and to declare whether they were in favour of this kind of agreement. We think that no people, either Serbian or Montenegrin, would accept this agreement at the referendum, because this agreement brings people no better tomorrow than politicians and political parties. It is known that 58% of citizens came out of the last elections; out of that, DOS received 70% and opposition 29%. It means that you DOS gentlemen didn't get most of the voters enrolled in Serbia and that you have no mandate to decide on one and another people. Having listened to yesterday's presentation by Mr. Prime Minister, I find it not convincing enough; nor has the Vice-President of the Federal Government, a G-17 expert, Mr. Labus; he, as an expert and economist, says it is a good thing that we have a special currency and it will be a special customs duty. I remind him that Serbia has no way out of the sea, and Montenegro has, complete transit goods will go through Montenegro and that percentage of customs will remain in Montenegro. I also remind him that every citizen will have to pay 3,000 dinars when personal documentation is changed: ID cards, driver's licenses, passports and other documents owned by every citizen. Also, I couldn't accept this story by Mr. Labus (and these days we see in the press that Mr. Labus's ratings are growing, I guess because they opened up more savings in Serbia in certain cities than children were born in that month and they took a brand from citizens of 30 dinars, and the market value is 60 dinars); I remind you that when you speak as an expert, you take a little care of some things that are known to citizens and that such a thing will not be accepted by citizens. Listening to yesterday's presentation by the Minister of Agriculture, which appeared twice in this assembly, once when it was an omnibus law, when he wanted to show that he took care of the citizens of Vojvodina, and forgot that in Vojvodina the citizens lived on agriculture; yesterday he wanted to convince us, he said, it is good in this agreement that the same number of ministers are scheduled to have both Serbs and Montenegrins. So how is it that the same number of ministers that both Serbs and Montenegrins have, if there are 600,000 in Montenegro and 8 million in Serbia. I don't think that parity is good. But he forgot that he promised that the price of grain for agricultural producers would be 11 dinars. He double-crossed agricultural producers and paid them seven dinars. He forgot that he promised them a price of 15 dinars for a sunflower, so he paid it for 12 dinars. I expect the Minister of Agriculture to join the Assembly these days with a proposal: what is it that the Government will offer to agricultural producers; on the basis of seeing which agricultural culture they can now sow on their property, which will bring profits. Also, yesterday, listening to the minister of justice (I think he's an expert if he's a minister of justice), so he says this agreement is not a good, formally-lawful one, then we should return him and not accept the agreement proposed by Javier Solana, the man who pressed the button to bomb the SRJ. Imagine, the president of our country at the press conference says - let me welcome our friend; he's a friend of Javier Solana. Javier Solana is our guest and we have to cooperate with him, and we can never say he's a friend, because we know what they did to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia in 1999. Furthermore, our President Vojislav Kostunica was not able to come here to this hall, not to look us MPs in the eye, but to look at the citizens; and even these MPs reportedly went out, and three of them came in to make quorum, because they were told - within two minutes if you don't enter this hall, you will be taken away from your mandates; they are overloaded, real cakes, opened to the pie maker, the other day they took away a cake from the Prime Minister. It's a joke to them, they took a little cake, so those from the Democratic Party say you brought such a small cake, so we can just put two candles in the cake. The Democratic Party would like some big cake where 10 candles can stop, they think they'll rule for 10 years. It's a dispute between the two largest parties in the Assembly Hall, and the citizens have nothing to live on. Also, the one who should come to look us in the eye is probably ashamed, because someone will ask him why he released 1800 Shipara terrorists from Serbian prisons, while at the same time not demanding that Serbs be released from the Albanian case; currently 36 Serbs are in Albanian prisons.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-04-0.u19741	Mr. Markovic, please return to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-04-0.u19742	It's all a subject, Your Honor, but how do you get in whenever I speak? I begged God not to come in, and you came in. All right, I'll cut it short. Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen, the president's wife writes a new constitution, where she rips Serbia into six provinces - and now that we change the documentation and when someone asks us where we come from, we will say: we are from Serbia-Montenegro; and when this constitution is proposed and when someone asks us where we come from, we will say from Serbia and Vojvodina. I suggest that the DSS MPs no longer enter here, because with them this assembly and the government have no support. I hope someone will pass this on to him, but most likely he is watching this assembly, and I ask him not to write us any more letters (as did the former ruling party... and then they write letters, back specialis, crime, etc.), that it no longer works, because Serbian citizens don't have time to wait. Also, ladies and gentlemen, our president of the federal state says in the morning -- I call on Serbs to go to elections, and his deputy living in Pristina, the one to be trusted, says in the afternoon, and every day to come, that Serbs should not go to elections. He divided the Serbian people -- the Serbian people from Cosmeta are now in Serbia and the "Return" coalition is powerless to do anything on its own. The president of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia does not ask a question at every meeting -- Serbs from Cosmet and Cosmet. It's his mission, and he doesn't do it, ladies and gentlemen. Some say Serbia is on its way. Serbia-Montenegro, but I don't know if Montenegro is on the right track. I say Serbia is on a tractor swing. Mr. Prime Minister must know what a jerk is. Maybe he didn't have a chance to drive on a skater, I was driving, and you were driving on that trotine -- but to know that Serbia is in a very difficult situation. I live in the country, where 2,000 people live, every day I have contact with the citizens, and they say it's very bad, but they say this -- we believe Zoran Djindjic in Vojislav Kostunica. Not because they love him, ladies and gentlemen, but they say like this...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-04-0.u19743	Mr. Markovic, I warn you to return to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-04-0.u19744	... I'm done. Zoran Djindjic says -- today is Thursday, tomorrow I cut off one ear and you put on a hat; Zoran Djindjic tells you -- I'm pushing my hand in your pocket on Saturday and I'll take it all out of your pocket; and our president of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, the one who says he can only look us in the eyes, doesn't tell us anything, but when he hits his hand right now, we faint and when he puts his hand in our pocket rips our pockets and our jacket.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-04-0.u19745	Bratoljub Janackovic has the word, followed by Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-04-0.u19746	The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable President of the Republic Government, the Honorable Vice-President of the Federal Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, after yesterday's quite convincing, and I would say to the sincere, statements by the President of the Republic Government and the Vice-President of the Federal Government on the conditions and circumstances under which the document was offered, as well as after today's further clarification of the Prime Minister of the Republic Government, only unwitting, those who have problems with understanding the reality and complexity in which we live, can dispute the document offered and the need to adopt it at today's session. I honestly believe that there are no inconsistencies here amongst us, I hope that there are no problems with understanding reality and that we will adopt the proposed agreement without any major problems today or tomorrow. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, for the first time since 1878 and the Berlin Congress, which recognises Serbia's modern statehood, versus Russia, and with the aim of Austria and Germany, a document that is before us in a convincing enough way mentions the statehood of Serbia and the alleged assumptions for restoring its European statehood. It has been confirmed that such a Serbia is desirable and acceptable for the European Union. Serbia is invited to achieve and understand its role in the region in return, but also its role towards the legacy of the former SFRY, all in the spirit of the European Union's interest. For me and New Democracy, and I think for all of you, there is an unrepeated time of challenge for building a European state of Serbia. The European Union has just opened a process "for the constitutional framework on Europe". For the first time in 200 years, the Balkans has been seeking to see us as a whole and a community. Serbia - the European state should count on it to transfer many of its classically understood functions to the European Union and its institutions through the stabilisation and accession process. Citizens of Serbia, in addition to the European Conventions on Human and Social Rights, I am confident, will enjoy the protection of the European Constitution. On the aforementioned road -- Serbia in the West -- I would say, however -- Serbia on a good path -- Serbian citizens must serve both Parliament and government. Politicians are therefore obliged to overcome the rivalries of daily politics and act as statesmen who live in accordance with their time and understand European processes. Dearly respected, the parliament is responsible for the European state of Serbia. Serbia's parliament, today or tomorrow, can adopt "A Agreement on the Principles of the Serbia-Montenegro State Community", but only as an act of recognition and renewal of Serbia's statehood and as a framework for the co-operation of two, in European terms, independent states, Serbia-Montenegro, which does not distance us from the process of stabilising and joining the European Union. So this parliament is obliged to provide the state of Serbia and its citizens, its government and institutions, with all legislative capacity for the security, economic, political, cultural and social transformation of Serbia on the principles of European societies, immediately and without retention, while taking over the work of the federal assembly and the federal government. Serbia no longer has time to wait and spend. Respected, Europe's most important message through the Agreement on Principles is: "The European Union guarantees that, in the event of meeting other conditions and criteria for SAP (Stabilisation and Association Procedure), the agreed principles of constitutional regulation will not pose an obstacle to the rapid conclusion of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement." Taking into account the above-mentioned guarantees, political parties, especially those who view themselves as the most important, do not have the right to exhaust Serbia, its Parliament, the government and citizens in endless processes of negotiation, gossip and outwitting. It is selfish, because of some personal positions, to give the new assembly of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro legislative capacity. She doesn't have them, she can't have them anymore. Serbia cannot and must not be stuck in the processes of violent, blackmailing building of political will and political culture for a new and efficient, strong Yugoslavia because of the personal vision of any individual, his party or family. That kind of Yugoslavia is really gone. Serbia's fate also cannot depend on a political concept of power in Montenegro's parliament, and finally, on the political success or failure of one, according to all the controversial political project called the Coalition for Yugoslavia, which no one can safely claim to be effective in the direction of European integration, for which no one can claim with certainty that, if it gets power in Montenegro, it will not continue to move more decisively towards, in a European sense, sovereign Montenegro, which, of course, I would welcome, and probably you. What can Serbia expect and accept? Serbia can accept that in the future assembly of Serbia-Montenegro's state union, conventions or directives on the basis of laws, which would later, as full laws, be adopted by Serbia-Montenegro's parliaments, are being published and adopted. As for the institutions of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro and their functioning, our goal is indeed not and should not be more than a minimum framework of coordination, representation and co-operation, all of this with the supervision of Europe. After all, courts that are only equating practice cannot be guaranteed law enforcement. A state community that doesn't have a finance ministry has no budget. Therefore, the political force that insists that the constitutional charter of the state community provides for the adoption of comprehensive laws certainly did not understand the message that our goal, the aim of the parliament of Serbia, is the next - Serbia, the state of Europe, in the constitutional union, the state of Serbia under the constitutional umbrella of Europe, not at all at the expense of some new Yugoslavia, even though it was also called the Serbia-Montenegro community. Dearly respected, Serbia's parliament should express its understanding and support for the movement of the society and the state of Montenegro towards Europe and European integration. In addition, the creation of a European, independent Montenegro returns in a certain way, with guarantees from the European Union, historic and state rights to Serbia to succeed Resolution 1244, by exchanging interests, negotiating and deciding Kosovo's final status and Metohija. Ladies and gentlemen, the fact is that Europe (certainly its country) has done much more harm to us than we have done to Europe. But tell yourself here - what are the periods of Serbia's takeoff and development? Is it those who have been provided or have happened at a time of partnership and co-operation, exchange of interest and settlements with the forces of Europe? Is that the period from 1878 to 1914? Is that the period from 1922 to 1936? Is this the period after Titus's Bled Agreement with NATO and playing on the West map from 1952 to 1990? True, it was a period of authoritarian regimes, but more or less integrated in the interests of the West and the great powers of the Euro-Atlantic space. Now we can say, however, that it was a period of benefit for the citizens. Is there anyone here who wants to run things in another, anti-European direction? Dear gentlemen, I ask you from this place to invite the presidents of the countries and the governments of the European Union to define, under their jurisdiction, a European conference on the status of Kosovo and Metohija soon. Parliament and the Serbian government should and can express state readiness for Kosovo and Metohija's vision as a specific European region, open to Serbia's society, so why not also tell Albania's society. For the construction of a civil society in Cosmet and its institutions, only the European Union can confirm its political, economic and legal capacity. Ladies and gentlemen, Serbia's parliament is in front of a historic watershed. In order to express his self-loathing and political maturity, the understanding of Europe and European processes, it is necessary to bring a declaration of accession to European security, economic and political integration. At the same time, he would show his readiness, but also a general assumption of the direction and content of Serbia's constitutional and political transformation. Serbian statesmen have spent a great deal of time trying to impose a minimum and strong Federation, Yugoslavia, through a process of strengthening a political option that has no state and parliamentary authority in Montenegro. No one has the right to put Serbia in a position to depend on the will of certain political parties, or the parliament of Montenegro. Who does not show a minimum of self-respect in this regard is not worthy and will not be worthy of the Serbian state. Dears, let me finally propose to this Parliament the text "Declaration of Understanding and Respect for the Interests of the European Union and Serbia": 1. "The Serbian Parliament recognises and supports the European Union's position to recognise Serbia's statehood on the basis of the state of play and historical rights. 2. Serbia's parliament confirms its attachment to the European Union's request that when adopting the principle of the Serbia-Montenegro state union agreement, it respects the state of Serbia and its parliament as the bearer and representative of Serbia's state sovereignty. 3. The Serbian Parliament expressed its gratitude for confirming Serbia's view as a desirable member of the European Union. 4. Serbia's Parliament welcomes guarantees that the European Union, if there is independence in Montenegro, the sovereignty of Resolution 1244 takes over Serbia. 5. Serbia's Parliament respects the need for an active approach by the Serbian state to resolve Kosovo and Metohija's status, primarily through the institutions of the European Union, Serbia and the provisional institutions of Kosovo and Metohija. Six. Serbia's Parliament accepts responsibility to take over all the institutions and responsibilities of the former Yugoslavia, in a way that ensures Serbia's smooth integration into the European Union and the Euro-Atlantic security structure. "And in the end, the New Democracy MPs will certainly support the proposed text of the agreement between Serbia and Montenegro, because, respecting it so far, it is indeed a real framework and the only possible solution to this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-04-0.u19747	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic (infringement of the Rules of Procedure). )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-04-0.u19748	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, despite the silent voice, the predecessor injured the Rules of Procedure, Article 101, paragraphs 1 and 2, under which he was obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly and address the other MPs with respect. Namely, those of us who are not going to vote for this proposal called it an unwitting, and even people who have problems with understanding, which I could further interpret as disabled people to understand something, which I could further interpret - people limited in my psychic capabilities. I'm going to vote against, but I'm not unwitting at all; and I'm inviting you to take some test, you and I, so let me prove to you that I'm not falling under this other category of people you're talking about here. We're just trying, we don't have political power, we probably won't have it, to stop this agreement, although I don't see any of your political power. Yesterday, the Prime Minister waited five hours for you to secure the quorum. Today it was on the edge again. If not for those of the DSS, you for your Prime Minister, who rarely comes into this assembly...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-04-0.u19749	Mr. Nikolic, you had no right to replicate, you replicated to the gentleman.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-04-0.u19750	I'm not replicating the gentleman, please. You didn't give him a quorum, but he's sitting there, and he's probably got a lot of work to do. But I'm just trying to convince you that the violation of the Constitution is not subject to political power. We're trying to stop you from hurting the SRJ Constitution. This is some public debate, communist. When does the National Assembly declare changes to the Federal Constitution, Article 1, 2, 3, 6, 77, concerning the names of the State, the jurisdiction of the republic, the jurisdiction of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia? Only after the relevant proposal is in the Federal Assembly, when it is adopted to the Federal Assembly by a two-thirds majority, does it give consent to the Assembly of the Republic of Members. And you here are predicting this agreement to have a commission come up with a proposal, on which the Serbian Parliament will give its consent, and then, this constitutional charter, will replace the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. We're not unwitting. We want with all our heart good to this country, whatever her name is. I can't accept it if someone tells me I don't think with my brain when I'm thinking about the state. You should have told me in May of last year, when the Prime Minister took part in writing a declaration on Kosovo and Metohija, where we said we did not accept Hans Hekerup's constitution. You should have, Mr. Djindjic, told me at the Palace, I saw you in 1993, you were at Radovan Karadzic's...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-04-0.u19751	Mr. Nikolic, you didn't get the right line, you went out to advertise the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-04-0.u19752	... And I didn't even see him that day, but I saw his associate, Ostojić. So avoid you accusing us here of not thinking well of the state just because we think otherwise. You accuse us of everything you have evidence of, but that we are not well-intentioned towards this country...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-04-0.u19753	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-04-0.u19754	... I wouldn't dare say that to any Serbian citizen.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-04-0.u19755	In fact, this was an abuse of the Rules of Procedure, since you answered the word by the Rules of Procedure, and you used the right to the replica. I don't think there's any damage to article 101. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. If you're not satisfied, let's make a statement. You're pleased. Natasa Jovanovic's MP has the word, followed by MP Vlatko Sekulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-04-0.u19756	Madam Chairman, before I begin my discussion on such an important subject, please "close these windows that are pounding in the National Assembly" So we can keep working. [[cause of the sawdust]] The adoption of these starting bases, as these papers were called, specifically several papers that we received as MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, to redecorate relations between Serbia and Montenegro, are the beginning of a final process of destroying Serbia-Montenegro's common state and raising a new Berlin wall between the two Serb republics. Accepting more than 95% of the demands of Montenegrin separatists is a classic issue of the interests of the citizens of Serbia and Montenegro, and an explanation of such an act, which we heard from the president of the Republic government and vice-president of the federal government, is nothing more than a political trick to undermine the reality and enormous dissatisfaction of citizens of Serbia-Montenegro, who, under the common state, mean a strong community and the functioning of such a community. That, the so-called agreement was signed in an anti-constitutional manner. You could have met with your mentor, Javier Solana, as many times as you wanted, but you've counter-signed it. Well, then against the constitution, as Mr Nikolic reminds you of earlier, you put it before the MPs of the National Assembly, and then, by such a so-called agreement, you will verify the anti-constitutional state that has been in the second federal unit in Montenegro, which has no respect for the federal institutions, the federal constitution and federal laws at all. The question now arises for all people -- why the DOS Quislin regime wants to vote in favour of such a so-called agreement. Well, first of all, because the dissatisfaction of citizens with your policy-making is growing and bigger and to protect your positions and positions of criminals who are incorporated into the top of the state government, into all the structures of our society. It's so normal. The application of such a fraud agreement will cause inconceivable damage to the Serbian national interest. What's standing here, the so-called agreement, I guess you've read it a lot, isn't any federal functioning of the state, because there's no meaning here at all about the Federation. It's some freak from a state that won't work at all, which you're several times, consciously or unconsciously, yesterday, or wishing it, and you've admitted it yourself, and that, first of all, is what Americans want. An international recognition of the referendum has been provided within three years, which is the requirements of the damaged Dukljans. On the other hand, for the next three years, separatists in Montenegro will use what they say to promote Montenegrin statehood and historic fraud and personal wealth. It will also be a place for Milo Djukanovic and for you in Serbia who are still in power to take advantage of such a period (be sure - you won't meet him until the end, but for at least these few months until your end) for further fraud, for personal gain and for all that you, as an unnatural regime in Serbia, Mr Djindjic, together with your brothers, are doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-04-0.u19757	Miss Jovanovic, I give you a reminder under Article 103.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-04-0.u19758	Rotating chair... Well, Mrs. Micic, you know, I can't talk to you about hair dye, although you might like it. I have to talk about serious things, because I have the honor...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-04-0.u19759	Miss Jovanovic, I give you a second warning under Article 103. [[Sagar.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-04-0.u19760	... that as a representative of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group, I am talking about serious issues. Now, as for the rotating chair, I assume you've heard of the United Nations, that's that evil instrument in the hands of the United States, that will be used by separatists from Montenegro to promote their sovereignty and put on the market and Montenegrin statehood in the international order. As for those who are now raising their voice and who have appeared here, first of all, I mean MPs from the DOS majority group, who, in the absence of your arguments for something like this, have been framed to speak in favor of such an agreement and to liquefy because of it, I would say that these are Serbs with a small "s", politically in any case missed personality, marginals on the political scene of Serbia, who... [[Sagar.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-04-0.u19761	Miss Jovanovic, after two warnings, I take your word from you, on the basis of Article 104, and I ask you to leave the pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-04-0.u19762	You'll have to tell me why. You'll have to explain to me why, and you'll have to find a way to get me off the phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-04-0.u19763	Please leave the pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-04-0.u19764	You will have to explain to me why, on the basis of which member, what I said was not true, and I represent one parliamentary group and, I believe, most of the Serb people who think so.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-04-0.u19765	Miss Jovanovic, please step away from the pay phone. The previous speaker pointed out the violation of article 101 because he found himself offended, because someone told him... (Natasa Jovanovic detests. I don't have to warn you. Miss Jovanovic, please leave the pay phone. You found yourself offended because someone told you that you were unkind, and you object when you get a punishment, because you call someone a fraud, and everything else. I don't want to talk to you. Please leave the pay phone. The MP won't leave the pay phone. ) I ask the Security Service that since the MP Natasa Jovanovic will not leave the pay phone... I'll set a break of 10 minutes, and if you don't want to get off the phone, I'll call security. [[Sagar, disdain of MPs.]] I suggest to the National Assembly that the People's Parliament be given a measure of distance. (Zagor, many SRS MPs detest, voices - determine the first quorum...) I've decided to take a break, and after that, we'll put the motion to a vote. [[The President of the Assembly gave a break of 10 minutes.]] [[Resume session at 13.40.]] Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, since we're already approaching break time, the break would be in 20 minutes, setting a break by 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-04-0.u19768	Dear Madam President, members of the presidency, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Republic and the Federal Government, I think it would be useful to refer first and foremost to those historic events of the past 10 years that have led to today's discussion of this agreement between Serbia and Montenegro. We are all witnessing that Yugoslavia, which has even been the subject of this speaker, has not existed since 1991. The country, as already said, dreamed of by our ancestors, including Negos, who considered Croats and Dalmatian brothers, such Yugoslavia from Vardar to Triglav has not existed for more than a decade. Let's just remember what event definitely put an end to Yugoslavia's existence. It was the decision of the then-SFRJ presidency of July 1991, which withdrawn JNA from Slovenia. It was an act de facto recognised by Slovenia's independence, de facto the disintegration of the former SFRY. Long before the de jure ceased to exist, our former state, which had still remained in good and good memory for many Serbian citizens, as well as in the former Yugoslavia's space. There and such a decision, which we can also view from a legalistic point of view as an act of betrayal of the country at the time, was made by the SFRJ presidency thanks to the votes of five members, four of which were from Serbia, and one from Serbia-Montenegro. To remind us, it was Branko Kostic, Bora Jovic, Sejdo Bajramovic, Jugoslav Kostic and the fifth crucial voice, Janez Drnovsek as representative of Slovenia. On such a case, we can see that all the claims made by those who said they were for Yugoslavia, where they built their political position in the past decade, were in fact not sincere. I think first of all of the previous, Milosevic's regime, which spoke of defending Yugoslavia, and in that decision, proved that it was not for the defence of Yugoslavia, but that it committed treason and, then and such Yugoslavia as it was perceived, based on the consent of the people who lived in that Yugoslavia. Of course, this was done for the creation of a nationalist project, a project to create a great Serbia, some of which set its limits in that famous line of Karlobag, Ogulin, Karlovac, Virovitica. Everything else that happened in the space of the former SFRY, hundreds of thousands killed, hundreds of thousands displaced, hundreds of thousands of displaced families, destroyed cities, houses, property, was just the inevitable and logical consequence of such a folly, a nationalist, which was motivated by an overwhelming hatred and nothing else. The hatred was wrapped in various coasts, wrapped in the landscape of the protection of the interests of the Serb people. However, when we look at today the results of such a policy for the Serbian people, not only in Serbia but also outside Serbia, we can only conclude one thing: that there was no more tragic policy in the interests of the Serbian people than this policy of Serbian nationalists that happened in the past 10 years; and it had nothing to do with what Serbian patriots thought in the 19th century when they spoke of the liberation of the Serb people from various conquerors and those who pressured that people, not only in Serbia, but also outside Serbia. Therefore, we can talk a lot about this hatred, but what I am as a socialist and as a responsible politician is particularly affected by is that even for these speakers, the words of hatred were repeatedly expressed when some MPs said how much they hated other peoples. It best reflects that this nationalism has no other generator of its strength, but simple hatred and nothing more, and that everything else is just a simple lie. Of course, during that period of 10 years, Serbian nationalists tried to create some pandan of creation, which would replace that formation that answered one of the fundamental interests of the Serb people, which is that they still live in one state. That is how the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia was created, which has always had the tendency to join its composition and those territories that were located in other republics, as they call them, Serbian countries. This and then the SRJ were created on the basis of an agreement in a very narrow circle, without confirmation of legitimacy, especially in Serbia, and it ended the way it ended. It is particularly important that such a creation led to Serbia-Montenegro being at even the edge of the war at one point. If we remember in 2000 and all of the activities implemented by the Belgrade regime at the time in Montenegro, we can only conclude that there are exceptional similarities between what was happening in Montenegro, that is, between Serbia-Montenegro and what was happening in Croatia in 1991 and 1992, respectively, in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 1992 and 1993. In such a situation, when Serbia-Montenegro was on the verge of war, without saying there were no relations between the two republics, that the federal state had not functioned, the new democratic government faced inherited problems since October 5th. The result of their efforts, as well as the efforts of those who have advocated the maintenance of such a community between Serbia and Montenegro, is this agreement that is before us today. I think that agreement has its positive side. It is an agreement agreed with the European Union, brought thanks to the assistance that the European Union has given us, and we as a country and as a society that wants to integrate into the European Union must take care of what this community of countries and peoples expects from this space. I just want to point out that the European Union is not just one economic or political creation. It is, for me, even for the Social Democrats that I belong to, a union of common values, and among other things, the co-existence of tolerance, respect for human rights. In light of what we have heard earlier from speakers who have asked whether certain nations exist, whether there are certain languages or not, we are specifically talking about the Muslim, Bosniak or Bosnian language or the people, we can only conclude, if we accept human rights as a category, that we cannot establish to another individual how he will plead and what language he will speak. He has every right to declare himself as Bosnian or Bosniak, Serbian or Montenegrin and has the right to speak the language he wants. There are no other criteria, I cannot impose others on an individual what he will call himself and what language he will speak. If you, fellow Members of the People, were on the list today, i.e. these days in Serbia, declared as Icelandics, Eskimo, penguins or whatever, a certain number of Icelandics, Eskimo, penguins, or whatever, would be registered in the list, because this results from the inalienable human right to declare to whoever wants the nation to belong. In addition, when it comes to the European Union, it has been said repeatedly that the European Union is going into increasingly more integration, that it is introducing a single coin, and that we are all witnesses. This integration and the introduction of a new coin in the European Union did not take place in 1950, it did not occur in 1960, when the consequences of World War II were still felt, but after 50 and change years, after the end of the worst conflict in Europe. I think we need to keep this in mind, this dialectic and this dynamic of the development of social relations in Europe, when we talk about what we want to achieve in relations between Serbia and Montenegro. I think it is already a great success that compared to 2000, when there were exceptional tensions between the two republics, we are still at the door of the creation of a new alliance between the two republics, which will completely normalise relations between Serbia and Montenegro. However, since we are here to speak primarily about the interest of Serbia, the citizens of Serbia and the Serbian people, I think another positive feature of this agreement is that it finally contains certain guarantees of Serbia's territorial integrity in its text. Namely, the model already known in international and legal practice, which is the model by which Russia has inherited the former Soviet Union, can also be applied adequately to Serbia in accordance with the letter of this agreement. So, if after three years Serbia-Montenegro decides they no longer have a community, Serbia will automatically become a co-executor of this alliance and will not again apply for entry into the United Nations. It will automatically implement resolutions relating to this area, especially in view of Resolution 1244, which guarantees Serbia's borders. I think that is important, given not the various flossules about sacred countries, whether Serbian or Albanian, but the fact that, if defeated in this space, Serbian nationalism, Croatian nationalism, must also be defeated by Albanian nationalism. There is no defeat of Albanian nationalism unless Serbia's territorial integrity is guaranteed. I think that's one of the crucial reasons why we have to be interested in the application of this agreement. What I think is the most significant reason why this agreement should be supported, my fellow Social Democrats in this assembly will support this proposal for an agreement, is this: it gives us a three-year period of time to round up the structure of social-economic relations in Serbia, to build institutions, to build a market. I think it's particularly important if we keep in mind that today, according to the latest statistics, there are over a million and two hundred thousand people without a job. Dear colleagues, I don't think there is much national interest in all of us sitting in this assembly until new jobs are opened and the fight against unemployment in Serbia. This agreement gives us the basis to deal seriously with this problem. (Vojislav Seselj: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-04-0.u19769	There's no basis for replication. Read Article 98. You are neither mentioned by name, nor by function, nor misread your exposure. If you have recognised yourself in determining Serbia's borders, it does not give you the right to replication. (Vojislav Seselj: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, but not to use the right replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-04-0.u19770	You have violated two members of the Rules of Procedure -- Article 98(2), because the previous speaker was insultingly expressing himself to the Serbian Radical Party. You broke article 100 because you let him talk here about everything that came to his mind, and 90% of it had nothing to do with this agenda point. He's even here talking about how everyone has the right to plead as penguins. It is the right of all to plead, but whether someone is going to be normal and to plead adequate or abnormal and to plead as a penguin, it is a matter of psychiatry, not of these congregation speakers. Secondly, someone may have declared themselves a Bosniak, like a penguin and a Martian, but it's not scientific evidence that there is a penguin, Bosniak and Martian nation. You had to intervene here yourself when he was insultingly expressing himself on Serbian borders on the Karlobag-Ogulin-Karlovac-Virovica line. There are Serbian towns and villages, Serbian churches, Serbian history and Serbian cemetery. You can laugh at that. The fact that you are laughing at it and that you are not reacting to it is actually saying what history has happened over Serbia, that such people will come to the Serbian parliament, who will laugh at sacred Serbian countries.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-04-0.u19771	I don't think there's any damage to the Rules of Procedure in Articles 98 and 100. Also, I think you know that well. (Vojislav Seselj: To vote. I would like to put a vote on the remarks that members of 98 and 100 have been violated. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. For 42, against 112, the abstentions, were not voted 21, a total of 175 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has made a decision not to violate the Rules of Procedure. (Zarko Obradovic: Replica. You have no right to a replica. No mention of your MP group, nor were you mentioned by name.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-04-0.u19772	fellow MPs, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I went out to protest the presentation of a previous speaker who spoke negatively about SPS representative policy and SPS policy in relation to Yugoslavia. Our pledge has always been, and today, to preserve Yugoslavia, the common state of Serbia-Montenegro and citizens living in the two republics. I view this exposure as only one failed attempt to give a subsequent interpretation of events that have marked the past decade. Of course, I'm not surprised, because it's not a lonely example today on Serbia's political scene. I must say that in relations between Serbia and Montenegro, and thus at the level of Yugoslavia, there was a crisis in the late 1990s, when a separatist government in Montenegro made its own independent Montenegro project. How difficult this question is to speak and an example of DOS. Remember, a few years ago, on your part, it was said that we had not solved the democratic issue and that with the change of government in Serbia and at the level of Yugoslavia, the issue would be resolved in itself. There's been a change of government. Your political associates are in Montenegro. You had the opportunity to resolve that question and failed. The problem is much more complicated than it seems and it has always depended, and in history, on the relationship between the dynasty, and today on the relationship of political forces in one republic and another. You said that question would be settled. This agreement shows that it isn't.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-04-0.u19773	Please stay behind the pay phone, since you're the next speaker. After MP Zarko Obradovic, the word has been given by MP Sredoje Mihajlov.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-04-0.u19774	The Honorable Presidency, fellow MPs, Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Vice-President of the Federal Government, speaking of a document discussed today by the assembly, DOS representatives said, in public and yesterday, a number of positive assessments, assuring us into content that is not available and ignoring all the bad consequences that this document will produce if, as it is, without any changes and additions, it is being translated into other documents and applied in practice. But when we put aside the political evaluation of the signatories and face the truth, when we look at the facts, and they're inexorable, then there's a whole other picture of this document. The basics, as they are, are not acceptable to us socialists and we will not give support to this document, nor will we be for its adoption in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. There are many facts that confirm this view of the SPS MPs. Let me just mention some. First, we are against this document because not all relevant political entities in Serbia-Montenegro participated in it, as well as those involved. Only DOS representatives participated in the talks with Serbia, although DOS representatives before and after October 2000, said the issue of the common state was a question of Yugoslavia's fate and constitutional solutions. It should be recalled that this document is a framework for all future constitutional solutions, not and cannot be a matter of one party or one political option, and this was particularly said in the role of criticism by the Socialists and the SRJ Constitution. As if it would never happen to be about such an important matter as the fate of the country, DOS itself talks. The fact is, DOS did what he said it wouldn't. The DOS alone, on behalf of Serbia, discussed the fate of the joint state of the SRJ, and, of course, with its signature it abolished the state and is responsible for it. There was no desire or hearing from DOS, that other political entities should engage in discussions on such an important issue. The talks were held without the participation of the Republic or the Federal Assembly, without respect for other political parties, without producing an appropriate platform, without talking at a round table, on a constitutional committee or anything like that. Now, when an agreement has been made and signed, when the whole job has been completed and Yugoslavia has practically been abolished, DOS wants the Assembly to verify afterwards what has already been done and it has been done badly. It is illogical that the DOS's partner did not participate in the talks on the fate of Yugoslavia at the federal level of the coalition "Joint for Yugoslavia". The coalition members are excluded from talks on the fate of Yugoslavia through the consent of the DOS and the separatist government in Montenegro. The government has conditioned that even the federal prime minister does not participate in the talks, while DOS did not want Serbia's president. However, both agreed on Solana as a participant in the draft agreement. He did not need to be modestly assigned to the role of witnesses, as the document says. He wasn't a witness, he wasn't even a middleman, and more could be said to be a commanding officer. The way he treated our country, it was seen in 1999. He not only signed an order to launch the bombing of Yugoslavia, but also followed what NATO planes bomb and what goals they achieve. The same Solana also found with his signature that Yugoslavia had ceased to exist. Secondly, no issue in Serbia-Montenegro's relations, which has been opened by the separatist government of Montenegro over the past few years, has been resolved by this agreement. On the contrary, a simple finding of the existing situation was carried out, without any qualitative progress, and in some areas solutions are worse than existing ones. Third, we are against the signed agreement, of course, and because of what it contains. The agreement is an agreement by the signatories that Yugoslavia ceases to exist without the new common state being created at the same time. It's not just about the name of the state, it's about the content and call it the new state, which is essentially not. You can't talk about a common state when no one can answer the question of whether it's a Federation, a confederacy or something else. It is not possible to talk about a common state, where two currencies, two central banks, two borders and the inability of free flow of goods are foreseen. You can't talk about a common state, where there should be special markets and two customs duties. It is not possible to talk about a common state when the content of the business and decision-making of the intended institutions is not known, when a consensus is decided by the military command, etc. Fourthly, this agreement not only breaks Yugoslavia, but also politically saves Mr Djukanovic. The announced referendum on Montenegro's independence certainly would not have succeeded, at least not at the will of the ruling coalition. The referendum is actually delayed for three years, so all other jobs can be completed in the meantime. Solana, of course, is for the break-up of Yugoslavia and the common state of Serbia-Montenegro, but not through referendums, but to do so through the agreement of the ruling elites of Serbia-Montenegro. If this were to be done through the referendum, then the right cannot be denied, for example, to Republika Srpska, which Western countries do not want to allow in any way in the Balkans. For them, it is unacceptable for the Republika Srpska referendum to decide to join Serbia. That is why it seems all about the decomposition, the fragmentation, the destruction of Yugoslavia, but also Serbia, to come together through some document, a recognition, a calling state, and the unwillingness of citizens that the West in Solana would not be able to control. Fifthly, we are against this agreement because it is not signed by a legitimate but self-proclaimed representative of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Under the Constitution of Serbia, which is still in force, Article 9, the Republic of Serbia is also its state unity, and that is expressed by the President of the Republic, and he is not a signator of the Agreement. Fellow Members and fellow MPs, the SPS is for the preservation of the development of the common state of Serbia-Montenegro, for the democratic Federation, for the state of equal members, for a country that will have a single foreign policy, defence, market, coin, customs and tax system, human rights, by European standards, for the republican form of government. The proposed document on the principles of Serbia-Montenegro's relations, as presented to the assembly, does not contain all the elements that the Socialists advocate and as such it is unacceptable for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-04-0.u19775	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Sredoiah Michael, has the word. He gives up. The word is a folk letter from Zlata Đeric, followed by a folk envoy, Marijan Rističević. You're giving up? Okay. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-04-0.u19776	Dear President, honored guests, colleagues and fellow MPs, I have an obligation to demonstrate the political position of the New Serbia MPs' club that, as we have said so far, will vote against this agreement. We realized that this solution, at this point, is one of those offered to Serbia and the Serbian people, was being extorted by circumstances, by various events, by pressures from the outside and from the inside, to be the way it came before us. However, we cannot accept it at all, that is our position, what has been said here about many separatist ideas from the former Yugoslavia, from the former several Yugoslavias in which the Serbian people and the Serb community entered the most. The Serbs introduced their territories into the few Yugoslavias, introduced their dynasty, brought the people in, entered their statehood, and always went out with less. All those who took less into that marriage left with the states. Today, there has been talk of possible tensions in Montenegro regarding the referendum. On the one hand, it's clear mathematics, we have 600,000 citizens of Montenegro in front of whom we are a bit afraid, and on the other hand we have ten and a half million citizens, citizens of Serbia, who no one has asked at any moment whether they are for a common state with all those who did not want the common state with us. What we will vote against is that we believe that such a document is dissatisfied with the Montenegrin people and citizens, and the Serbian people, or Serbian citizens, are humiliated. Certainly humiliated, and above all by the temporary state. Imagine, temporary and occasional state; temporary rule, temporary organs. That doesn't leave a sense of seriousness in front of this people, and certainly not in front of the world community. What's particularly unacceptable here is that we feel that we live in a country that currently exists at the very edge of probability, and its longevity or sustainability depends on the sense of humor of individual politicians. As for the language category, which I have to respond to, language is an exact thing, and not everyone can pronounce by language anything that he speaks. Absolutely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-04-0.u19777	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic gave up the discussion. The People's MP Zivko Selakovic has the word, followed by the MP Aleksandar Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-04-0.u19778	Madam President, Mr. Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Vice-President of the Federal Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the position of the MP group of the Serbian Unity Party on the document of the initial basis for reorganising Serbia-Montenegro's relations is well known. You heard him mostly from the presentation of Professor Pelevic and Mr Dragan Markovic. In addition to all that, here is still our comment. In front of us, we have one contract that has been made out of a country of 84 years of age by some kind of half state, with an arm's length of three years. A sovereign state has been created an addictive half-state, in which it has been given the European Union's right to judge according to its findings and in all state-law relations between Serbia and Montenegro. The common state no longer exists, because where there is no common economy, customs, currency, there is no common state, to understand what I'm talking about. Montenegro's secession has been agreed, which will be fully legal, constitutionally guaranteed. The reason Montenegro's secession has been delayed is that the European Union plans to declare Kosovo and Metohija an independent state over three years, so it will be easier to implement it at the moment of Serbia-Montenegro's breakup. To make evil even bigger, Serbia's defence and foreign policy were put under the direct control of Milo Djukanovic and indirect control of the European Union. Thus, Serbia loses its sovereignty and collapses to the level of joint defence, although his, I think, Milova Montenegro, gives barely 14% of the recruits. The same is true in the domain of foreign policy and joint finance. Serbia, which has about 10 million inhabitants, must allow the rotation of diplomatic representatives half-half with Montenegro, which has just over half a million inhabitants. It's not only injustice, it's subjugation and humiliation of Serbia. Djukanovic can promote his independent Montenegro with taxpayers' money. This inappropriate contract is not only the destruction of the Serbia-Montenegro common state, but above all, the surrender of the Serbian state's sovereignty in the hands of foreigners, which we already know are well aware of towards Serbia and the interests of the Serbian people. What does the agreement and anti-Serbism of Milo Djukanovic mean, which has reached its goal in this contract? It is about the national and religious tearing of the Serbian people, the union of the Orthodox population of Montenegro, and the suppression of the Serbian state from the Mediterranean, as it was done in 1913. These dubious goals are now being achieved with help, unfortunately I have to say, the current authorities in Serbia, which no doubt contributes to Montenegro, or most of all to Milo Djukanovic. This is something the Serb Unity Party parliamentary group cannot accept, and it is precisely work to support the inappropriate act, nor to be an accomplice to treason against the Serbian state and the interests of the Serb people. Finally, with all this in mind, the MP group of the Serbian Unity Party tells the Serbian Government and the promoter of this act: 1) that all opposition parliamentary groups in the Serbian Parliament are necessarily asked what they are and what state they want to live in; 2) that in the constitutions on the re-alignment of relations between Serbia and Montenegro, all opposition parliamentary groups in the Serbian Parliament, as Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic himself has recognised in one hand as a failure to make up this act; 3) people who have signed this agreement must take individual responsibility for the citizens of Serbia as creators of the same; 4) one very short, and I think at this point and the most frequent message of the Serbian Party's party is: to urgently discuss the emergency elections in the Republic of Serbia and that on all levels.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-04-0.u19779	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-04-0.u19780	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, article 101 of Section 2 has been violated. The Rules of Procedure, which says that MPs are obliged to address one another with respect. You know, when an MP calls him something that doesn't belong to him, as if I were now to address Miroljub Labus with the President of the Republic, it would be a kind of demeaning, because we all know that he isn't yet, although he wants to be; or, if Djindjic were to refer to the Archbishop of Canterbury, it would be a kind of demeaning, because he's not and probably can't become, I doubt he will. This is how this member of the Rules of Procedure was also violated when MP Selakovic named Borislav Pelevic as a professor, because Borislav Pelevic was never a professor and would never become one, and he might want to become one, because he studied more than 20 years at the Faculty of Political Sciences...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-04-0.u19781	Mr. Seselj, I warn you that you are violating the same Article 101.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-04-0.u19782	Let's clear up now who's breaking. I draw your attention that MP Selakovic named Pelakovic from the professor. If he's really a professor, then I'm breaking it. Maybe it's a head shot doctor, I don't know, and I'm not getting into it, but the professor certainly isn't, and I guarantee it with his head, because he hasn't finished any college yet.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-04-0.u19783	Mr. Seselj, on the basis of Article 101(3) and Article 103, I give you my first warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-04-0.u19784	For what?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-04-0.u19785	Because you bring forth the facts of private life and insult the messengers of the people.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-04-0.u19786	I'm not presenting any facts in my private life. Only here do I require that you, on official duty, prevent anyone from calling anyone who doesn't have or doesn't deserve it. You can't call a doctor someone who's not until he's a professor of someone who's not a professor; you can't call a doctor someone who's not a professor; you can't call a doctor someone who's not a professor; you can't call a doctor someone who's not a doctor and you can't call someone who's not a doctor who's not a professor; you can't call someone who's not a bishop. You are required to take care of it, and since I have now convinced you that you have violated the Rules of Procedure, I demand that you withdraw that sentencing notice.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-04-0.u19787	It's not according to the Rules of Procedure either. I won't withdraw that warning, and that's your second warning. Are you satisfied with the answer and would you like to make a statement? (Vojislav Seselj: How can I be satisfied if you don't want to take it back? You're not satisfied. I would like to vote on the remarks made by MP Vojislav Seselj that the Rules of Procedure in Rule 101 have been injured. For 18, against 92, the abstention of three, did not vote 56, a total of 169 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has made a decision that the Rules of Procedure in Rule 101 have not been injured. The People's Messenger, Aleksandar Vukic, has the word, and after that, the People's Messenger Stanko Kovacevic. National MP Stanko Kovacevic gives up. After MP Alexander Vukic, MP Zoran Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-04-0.u19788	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the text of the so-called The initial basis for redecorating Serbia-Montenegro's relations is one of the most unprecedented legal-political acts never seen in parallel-law policy practice. No one's ever written anything like that before. No one's ever done anything like that before. If, within these starting grounds, the constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the constitution of Serbia-Montenegro and the constitution of Montenegro, we will have a state that is not a state, something you can call a state freak or a monster state, something that has never occurred to anyone to be created. We had according to the 1992 Constitution a hybrid model, a federal-confederal model, and that was what bothered the MPs of the SRS before; we were bothered by those provisions that were closer to the confederal rather than the federal arrangement, although we, Serbian radicals, would like to have a single Serbian state. Realizing that kind of reality, we've calculated -- it's okay, we have to accept the federal arrangement, but confederally in no way at all. And then we had the constitutions of federal units, which in themselves speak enough about the fact that there are elements of the confederal model in which MPs are elected in the Greater Citizens and the Greater Republic; even in the Council of Citizens there was no and no respected principle -- one voter, one vote. But all of this is incomparably better than what we got from this agreement, because this agreement no longer has shared sovereignty, which otherwise has to be avoided, because legal-political theorists don't even know how to explain all types of so-called. a complex state and how to explain where unique sovereignty is, or where it is not, how this sovereignty is divided. There's no more shared sovereignty here. In this agreement of yours, this problem has been avoided, but unfortunately, on the contrary to what we wanted. Sovereignty encourages the vulgarization of the Latin word "superanus", meaning supreme, highest. Those who today have, under this agreement, the supreme, or highest power - are members of the Republic. There's no division of sovereignty. It's one of a kind of sovereignty. Montenegro and Serbia do. There's no common ground anymore, as some people don't know enough about it. The common state is synonym for the federal state. There's nothing in the Federation, this isn't a confederate. There are in historical terms four of the most famous forms of a complex state. These are: personal union, real union, confederation and Federation. There are no more confederates in the world today. We had more than nine years, the United States from 1778 to 87. It was that, if you'd like to follow the 1974 Constitution. SFRJ; had a confederation, a kind of form, and the former Soviet Union -- he even provided the right so-called "The Soviet Union" in article 72 of his constitution. Federal units that can step out of the Soviet Union if they decide to do something like that, and today we have one form of state order, which has nothing to do with any of the above. It's more like some kind of real union. The personal union cannot be, since there are no successions, which happen to match. The real union isn't. This kind of community, I don't know what to call it, has even less authority than a real union. Even examples of a real union in history, such as Austria (created in 1867, and abolished by the Sangermen and the Triann Treaty since 1919 and 1920), and later the Union of Iceland and Denmark (repeated in 1944), had more common functions than this freak that imposes on the Serbian people. Why did I say "imposure"? This is a kind of self-controversy constitution, because no one has asked the Serbian people, neither in Serbia nor in Montenegro, whether they want an agreement like this and whether they want a constitution within these starting grounds. No one has asked the citizens of Serbia or the citizens of Montenegro. It comes from a titoistic idea that some other people live in Montenegro, that they are not Serbs but Montenegrins, rather than coming from His attitude and the 1851 Law of Vladika Danila, which says Serbs and Montenegrins are members of the same Serbian people. And then someone says, and that's what the prime minister announced this morning and yesterday -- we stopped the disintegrating processes. But this is not Croatia, this is not Slovenia, this is the same people as our people. There's no difference between us, except that they were lucky or unhappy to be born and live 400, 500 or 600 km south of us. Why was it necessary to bring such a starting base? Ignorants from DOS laugh, as usual, ignorant people who don't even like to read books, so they can't even know anything about it. I must tell you that in Montenegro this is done with this agreement in order to avoid the declaration of the people of Montenegro, because most people in Montenegro are indeed for a common state with Serbia. When I say a common state, it means federal or, if you will, even for the single state of the Serb people. To avoid that, in order to survive Djukanovic in power, to survive these disintegration processes, which will continue in a year, two, three, so that they can hold and withdraw political figures and Serbia-Montenegro, to do whatever they want, in the way they want and how they will - that is why they needed this agreement. I'm not surprised by those who want to say this deal isn't good, but it's realistic at this point. I'm surprised by the president of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, who is a lawyer who says this is a Federation, although minimal. There is no minimum Federation. In theory, it doesn't mean anything, in practice either. What kind of a maximum Federation is that, then? It's never written anywhere, nor will it write, and this has nothing to do with the Federation. If that's something that's realistic, then don't say it's a good solution, because it's a bad solution, which is even worse than the 1974 solution. That's what every law school student in the first year will tell you. I still remember when, just over ten years ago, I studied at the law school at Mr. Labus's, attended exercises and lectures. I may not have learned anything, but I got 10, so watch Professor Labus evaluate. So he was then talking about this state of the federal-confederal type that wasn't the state in the right sense of that word, that it was a bad constitution. Of course, not as bad as the 1974 Constitution, but a bad constitution. And then what are the starting points, which today praises and defends, incomparably worse and the worst that anyone could ever put together. This is about alleged joint bodies, institutions, and it is said to be the assembly, the president, the council of ministers and the court. No assembly, no president, no council of ministers, no court. That'd make someone think they're some serious dishes. They only have administrative -- judicial office, for acts by the Council of Ministers, nothing more. Even the foreign-political function you will have, to a greater extent, held at a republican level than at that allegedly common level. We don't even have a common army anymore, because Montenegrin recruits serve the army in Montenegro, and Serbian recruits serve in Serbia. Well, then what is success, then what is there that is well accomplished, then what is there that is happiness for our people? Mr Batic made a relatively accurate legal analysis, without a conclusion, I will not go into it, as the newspapers write, whether he prescribed it from Ratko Dimitrovic, as far as it is, or not, but he ended up with something that is devastating for the Serbian people, ended up with an adventurous thesis -- we are against it, but because it needs to be separated from Montenegro as soon as possible, and we are about to create advent Serbia. We from the SRS are for something else. Why is Republika Srpska less Serbia, will you be Serbs in Republika Srpska tomorrow, just because they're separated by this border on Drina, to call the Republicans, not the Serbs, or they'll be Bosnians or members of the Bosnians, and I don't know which people, so we can create our own avionics country and say, Comrade Tito, we swear to you, that's what you've come up with, that's our only country, we can't do otherwise. We must oppose this agreement and the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group has done so and will always do so. There's no talking here about the idea of rule of law. These basics are the idea of negation of law. The word constitutio has its true meaning since the Magna charta libertatum. This has nothing to do with anything. In the history of law enforcement, no one has ever made such an act. It never occurred to anyone to make it like this. I'll finish, seeing as some of the ruling majority are pretty funny what I'm saying, John Golsfordi said in time - if we don't think about the future, we can't even have it. We in the Serbian Radical Party are thinking about the future. That's why we're going to be against these starting grounds and try to keep the state at least what little we have left. All those who want to help us in this business and live in the Western District, I call on tomorrow at 15.00 hours to attend the great national rally of the Serbian Radical Party in St. George's Square in Sombor, and I call on the entire people, all Serbs, all of Serbia's citizens to help us in this great and difficult business of taking down the international DOS regime.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-04-0.u19789	The People's MP Zoran Nikolic has the word, followed by MP Miodrag Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-04-0.u19790	The Honorable Presidency, respected fellow MPs, Prime Minister, Vice-President of the Federal Government, will first come from the already expressed views of the Socialist Party of Serbia and the assessment we have not changed since there is a Socialist Party of Serbia that Yugoslavia is the state that best safeguards the interests of both the Serb and Montenegrin people, and all citizens living in these two republics. Also in this assembly, my colleagues from the Socialist Party of Serbia have pointed out the non-acceptation of this document, which has been called - the starting points for reorganising Serbia-Montenegro's relations; we see it as a bad starting point for resolving bad relations between the two republics. Why are these bad bases? Because first of all they're legalizing the political reality that the prime minister was talking about, which is really bad. Why the legalization of something bad? Why does Serbia's signature on a clearly expressed desire for Montenegrin leadership to split unilaterally and independently from this state community? Why does Serbia, in its own way, lend credit to the Montenegrin leadership to do so and what is Serbia's interest in the whole story? Speaking of the participation of the European Community, we have heard from the prime minister that Europe has shown, in all these discussions, a constructive relationship in this story. We look forward to it, and we welcome it, if that's true. If Europe has sincerely demonstrated a constructive relationship when it comes to the relationship between Serbia and Montenegro, if it leads to the preservation of our common state, it will indeed be the discontinuity of bad moves, bad estimates, which exactly Europe and the European Community have done in the last 10 or 12 years, keeping track of their moves, to a good extent, of many fatal consequences and events in these areas. I will not waste words on the list of these poor estimates - from the premature recognition of Croatia and Slovenia, the Badinter Commission, etc., to inclusion in the 1999 aggression and destruction of our country. But for good wishes and good intentions, it's never too late, and if they're really good, we welcome them. But we cannot help but notice that the end of JJ and the beginning of JJI is a time of political, cultural and economic integration in Europe, but these integrations are not reserved and are not valid for the Balkan area, for the space of the former Slovenian states; for now, disintegration and breaking of already formed state communities have been reserved for us. I think that, and if we can understand the disintegration of the former SFRY as the wish of the then nationalists, the nationalist elites in Croatia and Slovenia, who dreamed of this century's national state, with several centuries of delay, absolutely unacceptable that the European Community supports the breaking up of Serbia-Montenegro, the countries which confirmed their international subjectivity by the Berlin Congress in 1878, introduced in the first Yugoslavia in 1918 and which thus not only expressed their willingness to unite, but also the willingness for wider integration, as Yugoslavia was. The crackdown of that country, our common state, Serbia-Montenegro, and from this aspect would be a completely non-history and retrograde phenomenon. But how all bad things can be good and how we really are in a parliament where we are discussing all the conventions of an act, we must try to find some good sides. I can see possible good in this agreement in a few facts. The first is that it is really possible that in the next three years there are more radical changes on the political scene of Montenegro and that we can come up with partners with which we will actually create a better state than we have now. That possibility exists. Also, if Europe really comes with good intentions to realise this agreement and talk to the state of Serbia-Montenegro from the aspect of accession, or an association and stabilisation agreement, then the principles of this agreement will force us to a higher degree, at least economically, the integration of this space, than we have now. So, Europe has these mechanisms, and if it wants to apply them, it will in some way make us at least economically integrated to a greater extent than we are now. But I am sure that some answers will come about these questions three years ago. We're about to enter the World Trade Organization. It's an organization that primarily deals with customs, 90% of its jurisdiction. If they accept Serbia and Montenegro as one country, it means they will not accept it with two tariff systems, with more customs rates now present; or they will accept us as one state, with one tariff and the same customs, or we will admit that we are not a common state. I think joining the World Trade Organization will be about a day of "D" that will also decide on the existence of this community. What's wrong? In the shortest, and there were words about it, it is not good that the negotiators decided to take responsibility (although they bear responsible functions in this country) for themselves, without citizens' opinions, without the opinion of the parliaments, to put the signature on one document which well predetermined fate in these areas; and also for choosing a paved path to change the Constitution, not a constitutional, parliamentary path for these changes, and for choosing an unauthentical way of forming a state community. All countries have so far been united, primarily on an economic basis, and the poor economic relations have been accompanied by appropriate political relations. This is just the other way around. Here it moves from political foundations and totally separated economies and really looks like building a house without a foundation. As regards the Constitution and the constitutional platforms set out in this Agreement, they are also atypical. The constitutional platform is mentioned as a term in the Middle Ages, when the ruler gave certain privileges to the authorities, so it is not excluded that even now some world ruler is giving us some privileges, the authorities, here in the Balkans and the possibility to at least jointly agree on a divorce, or how the respected professor Markovic says - that the international community has given us the mandate to agree on a Separadian modus, which means the way that we will separate, without it being at the expense of Montenegro. All in all, although this agreement is bad, we Socialists remain attached to the idea of Yugoslavia and, within the limits of our political power, in the further work on this constitutional platform, we will do everything to make relations between the state of Serbia and Montenegro better and make the country better than it is now and that is what can be counted on from our side.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-04-0.u19791	The People's MP Miodrag Stamenkovic has the word, and then the MP Predrag Canovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-04-0.u19792	Ladies and gentlemen, the starting points that we are discussing today are a political agreement on the formation of a state community that is a strange hybrid and a provision, a three-year-old state, or a trial state whose functioning, unfortunately, will be completely blocked, in our opinion, by the solutions that have been incorporated. In the absence of time to comment on them, I'll only mention two. These are a one-home assembly, with certain positive discrimination from Montenegrin lawmakers, with mechanisms for protection against overvote of member states likely to be installed, a consensus. Another drastic example is that the military is commanded by the Supreme Defence Council, which decides by consensus, and the recruits will serve in their own Member State unless otherwise stated. It's a safe way for our army to become two armies and logistics for the definitive separation of states. Normally, there is also the European Union that will help achieve these goals and regularly monitor this process, meaning mentor and we protectorate. All of this should be a common path to European integration without borders, customs and different currencies, and we are starting from the fundamental opposite in all of this - we have a divided market, two currency systems, special banking and customs systems; this can only slow down our European integration. The consensus that is constantly mentioned, which insists on as the prime minister says, will refer to Serbia's head. We are witnessing that the last few days in the Montenegrin parliament have killed our fellow MPs by explaining that this is a state that is not really there, but it is also devastating for Montenegro and humiliating for Serbia. Over the past 8.5 decades, we have had a process where all of our so-called brotherly republics used Serbia-Montenegro to reach their countries, for one single reason -- because they had clearly defined objectives and a national programme. Unfortunately, until today, we do not know that Serbia is ashamed of itself all the time and that it is the greatest and should be constantly apologized. In short, since we do not have much time, we in New Serbia suggest that we definitely turn to ourselves, reject the unnecessary burden of the so-called federal government (and I apologize to Mr. Vice President) and the non-existent parliament, and definitely remove one political and constitutional illogicality. It is a way to define and establish democratic institutions much faster in Serbia and end economic reforms. And, in the end, I just want to point out that we from New Serbia are significantly different from the others who disagree with this concept because we are neither for unitary Yugoslavia nor for any, God forbid, socialist federal Yugoslavia. We, ladies and gentlemen, are for Serbia to definitely turn to itself, its interests and its tradition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-04-0.u19793	The People's MP Predrag Canovic has the word, followed by MP Miroljub Veljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-04-0.u19794	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, respected members of the government, my discussion on the so-called Initial Grounds for redecorating Serbia-Montenegro's relations will be of exclusive principle. It is obvious that the proposed document to redecorate Serbia-Montenegro's relations is an imposed solution to the leadership of our two republics, i.e. the state, by part of the international community. In addition to yesterday's discussion, the prime minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Zoran Djindjic, recognised it in a way. After all, everything that has been going on in the last ten and more years in the territory of the former Yugoslavia has been under the auspices of the Western forces, i.e. the NATO Pact. That part of the international community has never tried to respect the historical and national interests of the Serb people in these areas. When they wanted to impose a solution, they had neither the international right to the non-violence of borders nor the Constitution of Yugoslavia nor the constitutional right of the Serb people to self-determination. Whenever they faced resistance in the Serbian people, they resorted to blackmail, pressures, sanctions, bombings, even two Serb territories are currently under their occupation. And it's not about any international administration, it's about a clean occupation. Just to clarify, we have never said that Kosovo and Metohija, including Republika Srpska, are under the occupation of the international community. They are under the occupation of a work of an international community called the NATO Pact, which is two separate things. As long as that part of the international community, Mr. Milo Djukanovic was needed to achieve their goals, they warmly supported him in his separatist adventurous policy, however, now that the circumstances changed, they left him at least for a while, at least three years. It is well known that Mr Milo Djukanovic, who thanks to whom, was held and held in power in Montenegro. But that's reality, that's true, but what's devastating is the fact that he has tied the historic fate of the Serbian people in Serbia-Montenegro to his authority and his authority. I guess the government is a variable category that shouldn't change the historical facts and at least the historical roots of a nation. However, some have evidently come to a different understanding of the exercise of authority. The starting groundwork on the arrangement of Serbia-Montenegro was brought almost a hundred years ago, and when Serbia-Montenegro united. Not to talk about an agreement between Serbia and Montenegro since 1866. However, Milo Djukanovic appears to be the first ruler in Montenegro to remember that these relations should be redecorated as is appropriate to his political interests. Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic made a particular argument here yesterday that he tried to explain why a true Federation between Serbia and Montenegro is not possible at the moment. However, it should be recalled, it was not long ago, before the Democratic opposition of Serbia came to power, that its leaders were making arguments that were trying to explain that the Federation between Serbia and Montenegro would be able to function exactly if it came to power. Yesterday, it was also pointed out here to the danger of further disintegration of Serbia. Remember, in the pre-election campaign, the Democratic Opposition of Serbia represented itself as the only possible integration factor. What happened in the meantime, what happened in the meantime, what made that initial argument change now by a completely different argument. Unfortunately, one such important document that defines the fate of the Serb people in Serbia and Montenegro signed five of our statesmen without asking for coverage in the opinion of the people, and yet with the presence of war criminal Javier Solana, who instead of going to prison for crimes against the Serb people, creates the fate of the same people. The very fact that the European Union has delegated him to intervene in the signing of this agreement best tells us how much this same Europe even cares about our opinion. Despite the state institutions being established in the agreement reached: the assembly, the president, the council of ministers and the court, considers the document offered by the Soviet Union to continue disintegration of the Serbian National Corps, i.e. by further dismembering the Serbian national tissue. For these reasons, the SSK parliamentary group will not support the proposed document on reorganising Serbia-Montenegro's relations.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-04-0.u19795	The word is by MP Miroljub Veljkovic, followed by MP Milos Nesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-04-0.u19796	The document, this paper with which the Republic government came before this parliament, is a document that will realise the final destruction of the existing state. The politics of the Western forces that the Serbian ethnic Corps is completely fragmented, so tiny that it never represents any political, economic or military factor in the Balkans ever again, with this approach to solving our internal problems, enters the final stage. To achieve such a policy, America and part of the Western forces used various methods, of which the dominant was a naked force. This was particularly escalating in 1999, with the brutal bombing of Serbia, and one of the main contractors is the same Solana, whose signature we see on this paper, which is pretentiously called - the initial basis for redecorating Serbia-Montenegro's relations. The world's largest military machinery amputated Republika Srpska, took part of Republika Srpska and eventually occupied Kosovo and Metohija. They did all this with a combination of political and military pressures, where the military force, or military pressure and aggression, was dominant. However, the procession of Serbian ethnic tissue did not stop there. It's just that the job has to be done. Only this time, other methods are used. America and its Western allies managed to install two extremely cooperative regimes in Serbia-Montenegro on the job: in Montenegro, a regime that is openly separatist, and in Serbia, a regime that is not open to separatism, not counting this black Batic, but which is essentially working on it. In the pre-election campaign, DOS promised citizens it would preserve the common state, and today they simply compete in the activities of creating and rounding their own feud as soon as possible. Here, and Dinkic stubbornly rushes to transform the National Bank of Yugoslavia as soon as possible into a national bank of Serbia, normally with him headed. Dear People's MPs, what did we hear yesterday from the most responsible officials in this country? First, a letter came to us from one whom the people of mercy called "Vojabez of the Earth" and informed us that at the end of this session they would address the National Assembly. But not to "child Grujica", not to Ceda Jovanovic. It is as if it is important whether Mr Djindjic or Mr Kostunica will speak first. Maltene made a state problem on TV yesterday. Not nearly as much as Mr. Djindjic, nor Mr. Kostunica will listen in this country, let alone what order will he speak in. The Prime Minister also spoke to us. He first informed us that the public in Serbia did not welcome a new solution. Normally, the public in Serbia did not welcome this solution, Serbs are a wise, smart and state-of-the-art people. Furthermore, the prime minister told us that he was not consulted on these starting grounds, I guess that's where he wanted to complain about Kostunica, or that he had finally learned from that philanthropist Solana. However, Mr. Labus denied it because he informed us that Solana absolutely did not interfere with the negotiations. Now I'm in a dilemma that one of them is not telling the truth. The prime minister then apologized that this parliament was not consulted during the negotiations. Like, no respect for democratic procedure. Right after that, Mr. Prime Minister claimed that even if we had been having some kind of debate here, if this house had given some kind of a platform to negotiate with the state authorities, it wouldn't have changed anything at all, we would have had the same solution. What did Mr. Prime Minister tell us yesterday? He told us two things: firstly, that we are a country of very limited sovereignty, that it will be as the boss says, and in this case is the boss of Javier Solana; secondly, that this Parliament has no special influence on the work of the state authorities. I suggest to the Prime Minister that the parliament be abolished. If we cannot give you a framework and a platform in which you will move when you negotiate the most important state issues, then why are we spending this much money on the work of this Parliament, why are we wasting people's torment? Mr. Labus informed us yesterday that he was, listen to this, terribly indisposed when he heard this was signed, so yesterday he got a little moody, and I can see he's in a mood today. Immediately, normally, after cheering up, he hurried to run for president of Serbia. Whoever says "man" -- if a federal ship goes down, let me get on this federal boat. I wouldn't comment on Batic's discussion, because it's really completely meaningless and I don't want to waste precious time. Dear People's MPs, yesterday we witnessed a great farce, making a farce out of this nation's greatest historical and political issue. Unauthorized negotiators, note, the unauthorized negotiators weren't even fundamentally politically honest to tell us yesterday -- Solana, this mentor, ordered us to do so, and so we had to do, not to make such verbal exhibitions here before us. This morning you attended another such verbal exhibition by the prime minister, Mr Djindjic, to prove something that cannot be proved. You're probably wondering, honourable MPs, why is America pushing for such a temporary solution? With such a co-operative power in both republics, both Serbia and Montenegro, they could have completely destroyed the country immediately. The answer is that there is a very simple reason. Temporarily, there is a need to ease extreme tensions in Montenegro for three years. It's not raining on America right now in the Balkans. In these three years, the government in Montenegro and the government in Serbia will institutionally separate brothers by blood and faith, and the job will be painlessly completed. Dear People's MPs, this is the kind of freak we absolutely don't need from the state, even if she lives only three years. We do not need in Serbia here, nor do we need our brothers in Montenegro. Simply execute the warrant right now. You know that folk-- the longer the disease, the harder the death. Don't mumble your people for three years and eventually execute that warrant. It's not fair, and it'll be extremely harmful. You will temporarily undo 200 years of Serbian history. You cannot choke and suppress the idea and ideal of the Serbian people in Serbia, Montenegro, Republika Srpska, Republika Srpska, Kosovo and Metohija, to live in a single state. You simply cannot undo 200 years of fighting the Serbian people for a single state. I don't know if you know that there is absolutely no house in Shumadia that has not laid at least one life on the altar of the country for this sacred ideal of a single Serbian state in the past 200 years. I repeat, we need a unique state of all Serbs and other peoples who live with us in our ethnic areas. We need one president, one parliament, one government, one army, one police force. We need one monetary, one fiscal, one banking and one customs policy. We need one common economic space. In one word, we need a state, not a freak from the state. It's a national programme and it's a Serbian Radical Party programme.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-04-0.u19797	The word has a folk MP Milos Nesovic, followed by a folk MP, Miroslav Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-04-0.u19798	The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, the Honorable Vice-President of the Federal Government, when we analyse the initial basis for reorganising relations between Serbia and Montenegro, my views are the following: The SRJ no longer exists. This is the result exclusively of DOS and Montenegrin representatives' policies. I say DOS, because the most called legitimate representative was not involved in the negotiations in front of Serbia, which is the president of the Republic of Serbia. However, however, a solution to some kind of community of Montenegro and Serbia, as the agreement envisioned, did not exist anywhere in the world, there is nowhere today, and I believe there will be none like this anywhere. And what else to expect when the broker in the negotiations was Javier Solana, a convict for 20 years in prison. This Spanish politician, who was freed from being bothered by her pushing him into the European and NATO authorities, set the stage for Yugoslavia's further break-up. This clearly underlines and highlights NATO's war doctrine on the destruction of a single, southern Slovenian and rather a single state of the Serb people. As I have already mentioned the unique state of the Serbian people, I will mention the latest historical research, which speaks of the vastness of Serbian countries from the Alps to the Urals to Olympus, from Olympus through Drac through the Adriatic to the Alps, on which the mighty Serbian people lived, and which today is reduced to the recipe of the West to the District. We in Serbia, or the Socialist Party of Serbia have always respected the right of every constituent and state-owned nation to self-determination, including the Republic of Montenegro. There was no dispute about these questions with us. We were only opposed to declaring leadership in the name of the people separation, but we always supported and supported the express will of the Montenegrin people at the referendum. I remind you that three years ago our President Slobodan Milosevic made this position clear and stressed: "If the people in Montenegro think they will be better off on their own, let them define themselves, and we will respect it." If we go back just a little bit, before the elections, the existing opposition and then the government, promised it would preserve Yugoslavia, accusing the Socialists then of forcing them from the common state of Montenegro, Kosovo and Metohija. Obviously, that was not true, and that also confirms the Serbian side's impotence in the talks, resulting in a real miracle from a common state, which no one alive can comprehend, understand, or define. The Federation didn't, because until yesterday it was a Federation. The confederacy isn't, because we have common authorities, the assembly, the president, the council, the court. The Union isn't, because we have different coins, tax and customs systems. So, hydrocephalus was created, which someone wants to call human, or state. In this context, I will point out three moments in relation to the state through which our past and our present are mirrored. First, in time, Golda Meir complained that it was the hardest job to make a state. We believe he's absolutely right. For centuries, our ancestors have endured heavy sacrifices for the establishment and preservation of the state. It's easy to forget today. Secondly, reforming the state, it's something easier to do and requires knowledge, determination, and visperity. Third, to break up the state and create some kind of freak from the state doesn't need anything else to be irresponsible. The logical question arises, what has actually been achieved. The answer is - nothing; nothing for a good, serious, regulated state in an economic, legal, political and social perspective. However, we must agree that the interests of the people are much higher than the petty interests of the party, political groups and economically powerful individuals. That, gentlemen, must always be kept in mind when it comes to the state and fate of the people. At the very end, to establish the current legal order in the country. Now Yugoslavia, rather the former, is in a constitutional vacuum that fills constitutional statutes for Serbia-Montenegro and the constitutional framework for Cosmet, which is certainly the most Serbian part, Kosovo and Metohija. In Serbia, in addition, there are regulations, so that the overall social life takes place in a legal chaos, dominated by the volunteerism of the current authorities, resulting in uncertainty and restlessness of citizens, especially those who defended the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-04-0.u19799	The People's Messenger Miroslav Markicevic has the word, and after him, the People's Messenger Petar Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-04-0.u19800	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. President, Mr. Vice President, I'll be very brief and I'll try, of course, not to repeat a single sentence from my fellow predecessors. First, I'd like to say something about the signatories of this agreement. You are the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, you are the Vice-President of the Federal Government, but citizens should, although many already know, know that this agreement was signed by the president of the DSS, the president of the Democratic Party, the president of the DPS and one of the leaders, and I would say, the chief man of the G-17. For the record, since you haven't frozen your party functions. Mr. Labus, if I remember correctly, you told the sports dictionary that approximately 1:1 was achieved in talks with the Montenegrin delegation. One chair in the international community, that's our point, and everything else is their point. I'm just afraid the citizens of Serbia-Montenegro don't lose 3-0. You know, like sports journalists say, no fighting. One more thing, I can understand that you as the leaders of this country might know something that I don't, let's not just say ordinary MPs and citizens, and we don't need to know. Perhaps something of this will be useful for our future state. I note that, as one of the organs of this new state, there is a council of ministers. There is a portfolio of international economic relations. I honestly believe, Mr. Labus, that you are the first man in this country in this area. You go out here for a pay phone and you say you'll continue the work you've been doing, and I'm really telling you, successfully, so you'll convince us all that this country will exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-04-0.u19801	Thank you. The People's Messenger Petar Petrovic has the word, and after him is the folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-04-0.u19802	The Honorable Presidency, the respected signatories of the starting grounds for redecorating Serbia-Montenegro's relations, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, as is known, will not support these starting grounds for the reasons already mentioned here. I'll just add a few things and explain. First and foremost, I think one procedural error was made when calling this session and putting this point on the agenda. No idea maker of these starting grounds has been invited to explain how they came about, and this is Javier Solana. The same one who sent those to bomb our children, to tear down our houses and bridges. Now he's come to make us a new state. I think he should have come here in front of this parliament to explain that there were starting grounds, and especially because, in the opening statements, there was, among other things, a proposal from the European Union. I think it is best that the European Union's proposal explains someone in front of the European Union. When a mistake has already been made and it has started with a public debate, let's start from the beginning and see how to access a constitutional charter. I don't know if there are any law school students present today, but as far as I can tell, it's certain that some generations behind us will have to study that something shouldn't or shouldn't have been done in the creation of a country. On the other hand, in this document, it says, among other things, that at the end of three years, the Member States that initiate the procedure for changing their state status will not inherit the right to international and legal subjectivity; does this mean that Serbia should, with its more than eight million inhabitants, be at the end of this period, the hostages of Montenegro, or not the people of Montenegro, but the regime of Montenegro, which in all ways wants to act on the small door of Montenegro's independence, although it is very well known that most of the people in Montenegro are for the common state, because it is in fact about the same people. There's been a question here, and there's been a lot of comments on what's being proposed -- confederation, Federation or something else. We've heard different explanations, and we shouldn't be too smart, at least we who finished law school, so to know that in the history of law so far, it's not recorded that this kind of state existed or that at least the starting frameworks for the creation of this state existed somewhere on the ground of Europe so far and beyond. Namely, the confederacy is not, because there are no elements of the confederate. The Federation is not again, because there are none of the elements that make up the Federation. Neither is the union of sovereign states, as members will not be internationally recognised sovereign states, so they will not have their special representatives in international organisations. What's this? This is, for example, a hybrid that, as I said, will be given its opinion after a few years by legal theorists, experts, etc. The question is, who signed these basics and whose name is it? In front of Montenegro, as a federal unit, the president of the Republic and the Prime Minister signed it, signed in front of the federal government a deputy prime minister -- yes. In front of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, the president of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia signed it, and only the Prime Minister signed it in front of the other federal unit. Does that mean Serbia doesn't have a president of the Republic? If he's not here, we can call the election and elect the President of the Republic. What is what makes the basic elements of a common state? It's said, I'll just repeat a few elements. These are the common market (single or common market), the military, the common police, the coins, the national bank, and there is absolutely nothing in the future in the future, as predicted by the initial foundations. There have been heard from respected experts that there will be a common market, and Mr Djukanovic explains to all bells in Montenegro that there is no common market, that Montenegro has circled its market, its economic and economic system. Someone's not telling the truth, and who-- I guess tomorrow's practice will show. There's something else I have to mention here, going out to explain some things to us some speakers raised their voices, not to say they were yelling. I was taught when I was a kid that the louder someone was, the less right it was, because when a man has arguments and based on story arguments, he would say it quietly and arguedly prove that he was right. I used to, always when I was wrong, yelling. Once again, let me say that the Serbian Unity Party will not support this proposal for reasons already mentioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-04-0.u19803	The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, followed by a folk MP, Dragan Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-04-0.u19804	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, against the constitution and against the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for two days, we are discussing the starting grounds for redecorating Serbia-Montenegro's relations, of course post-festum, after it is signed. It would be normal if, in the form of a proposal for a decision of these starting grounds, we had discussed it first here in parliament, and then we authorised the people who are competent to base you and sign you. This is how we have a private agreement between Zoran Djindjic, Vojislav Kostunica, Miroljub Labus, Filip Vujanovic and Javier Solana. To me, the right to tell you is more like the agreement of Zorica Radovic and Ruzica Djindjic, who, on the basis of a pillow whisper, tried to translate their wives' wishes into one such document. We were told here by the Prime Minister that he was not alone in this document until Javier Solana brought it to Belgrade. It's nice of him to admit it and keep speaking for himself in his exposé. I personally think -- says Zoran Djindjic. Mr. Djindjic, we don't care what you like as Zoran Djindjic, a citizen, think and think. We are interested in what you as Prime Minister think, because you are the Prime Minister of a country in very difficult historical circumstances and you are responsible for all political developments in the country and, of course, for the future of that country. Batic said what Zoran Djindjic thought, and he must not speak publicly. Only Mr. Labus publicly said that this document verified the existing situation, which was explained by the policy of the final act. Nothing new in the East, not in the West, we also end up with a policy of a finished act in one document. However, what is clear to you is that this is actually a constitutional act for you, namely that the opinion that this assembly formulates or some conclusions, if they are to be formulated at all, do not constitute any obligation for anyone. That's where this bad debate is, it doesn't serve anything, and it's obviously just a waste of time. You have signed the act, the two parliaments will delegate representatives to the constitutional commission and will bring about the caucus constitutional charter. In this document itself, you are already talking about the state community within which Serbia-Montenegro sign an agreement on the principles of redecorating its relations and you forget about Article 1. The constitution of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, which clearly states that the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia is a sovereign federal state based on the equality of citizens and equality of the republics. So, still the Federation, still the republic of the member, not the state community. Then you foresee a constitutional charter as the highest legal act of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. Although the constitutional acts cover only those issues that normally represent the matter of the constitution, meaning the basic provisions on state order, state bodies, the relations of these state bodies, fundamental rights and freedoms, mutual relations and jurisdiction, the way the Constitution changes, you are now taking us back to the Constitutional Charter, which is as the highest legal act in the constitutional and legal theory of constitutional text detail. We already see from these basics that this will not be the case and that these constitutional statutes will not deal in detail with all those things that the highest legal act of a state should deal with. And the question is, of course, what is this monster state that you're trying here, with these starting grounds, to form, whether it's a confederate, whether it's a union, real, personal, or something quite third, and obviously it's nothing or all of it together. The Confederation as an alliance of independent states; Member States do not cease to be independent entities of international public law; joint bodies establish by consensus principle; the highest authorities of the executive government of the Member States, and when it comes to the real union, which is created by the contract of the Member States, which, in the jurisdiction of the joint bodies, transfer defence, finance, foreign policy; most often, this is known to you, the Union is a transitional solution between the Confederation and the Federation, and we already have a Federation. So we're going backwards again, and maybe all of this really wouldn't be so strange or impossible in another country, but not in this country, where most of the same Serbian people live. You know, we have to keep in mind the trends of the modern world order, the modern world. These are three basic trends - the destruction of individuals, the destruction of families and the destruction of nations. As individuals are destroyed - a man, an individual, should only work, spend, and listen to what is meant for him. When families are destroyed, family relations and social relations are destroyed, because the family is an institution of society, and as for the nation and one of the key forms of the survival of the nation, it is a national state, but open to other national states; and as no one can choose the family in which they will be born, of course, they cannot choose the nation they belong to. A member of a nation can throw away his nation, but he is then born of a nation to which he belongs and represents an apostate. The conclusion would be this - this act that you sent us is an act on the destruction of the state, a quasi-ative act, this personal alignment of the views of individuals who happened to be in certain high functions, both in the federal state, and in the Republic of Serbia, and in the Republic of Montenegro. Time is required, it takes another three years for Milo Djukanovic to complete his separatist ideas. I ask you, gentlemen, why, when you already have all the media in Serbia, when television is available to you, when you are at your disposal, when you control education, from basic to university, why don't you make an effort, why didn't you ever think about trying to influence public opinion, so that our national interest is to build a unitary state with Montenegro and, of course, that all other Serbian countries will one day be reunited with the Serbian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-04-0.u19805	The word is made by MP Dragan Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-04-0.u19806	Gentlemen, when this proposal for an agreement on the starting points for a common solution and a common name for the new state, to be called Serbia-Montenegro, came from the facts, and the explanation was given, which is all the interests behind this solution. What are the interests - first of all, the highest interests in this solution are certainly the interests of all separatists, both in Montenegro and Serbia. Furthermore, the interests of all those dealing with the grey economy are because the unstable economic and economic system, the unstable state community, the unrealistic tax policy, the two tax policies, the two customs, the two monetary systems -- are suited to this state community. Why in Serbia, and why not the euro in Serbia? Why in Kosovo and Montenegro? Not to support the growth of profits or the improvement of the economic system in Montenegro, but to continue to flourish in these areas, smuggling and the grey economy, and to keep the centre of smuggling and the gray economy in the Balkans and for these 50 million inhabitants, which are being talked about here. And then, first of all, it's for washing dirty capital from the West. When you say you've got some patriotism in you, then this pay phone says you've got no sense. It's just amazing that your citizens, who have patriotism in them, think so. Whoever has a heart, he has a soul, he has reason, then he must have brains. And it's certainly a simple fact when in one America, where 50 people live and who knows how many other nations, it's politics that anyone who enters that country must first say he's an American. And it just doesn't matter anymore whether you're a Serb, but someone's standing up here talking about human rights only. So whose human rights are at stake here? Who touched whom here - no one anywhere or ever. Then why do we need a non-quality creature like this? The SPS advocates a strong, stable and rich state of the Serbian people and citizens of Serbia, and we have always sought that. Since 1997, when separatisms grew, then someone figured out, and above all in Montenegro Milo Djukanovic, that they will first help him to come to power, then came to the situation that he can no longer defend himself from that policy and must seek an independent Montenegro. Why didn't we let him hold the referendum? It's very simple and simple -- it wouldn't go through; then Milo Djukanovic would fall as the rest of the former regime, as you like to say. So there's no such thing as politics. There is a need to protect such policies. Why for three years - three years is a time that is constantly mentioned in terms of Kosovo and Serbia, and now also across Montenegro, and now also applies to Yugoslavia. It takes someone three years to strengthen media and financial separatism, to suppress all patriotism and break all illusions in these areas, that someone needs the state of the Serbian people. We already need to live in some form that someone else is going to decide on. I've been saying all this because no one, on either side, has ever brought us a solution. That's already said from this pay phone. We were supposed to find him ourselves and find him. No one in the ruling structures has even bothered to find a way -- to determine that solution. Why give in to Milo Djukanovic? Let a nice man organize a referendum and let him lose. Because it is definitely a fact, and the general political knowledge, that this referendum in Montenegro would not have passed. But then it is lost the right of the Serbian people to plead in Republika Srpska on the subject, and then we will update, in three or four years, the right of all separatists to declare their future state status at Serbia's premises. I don't see that this agreement will save Serbia either. It seems to me that they are the most pleased with this agreement, and most welcomed by two men, Milo Djukanovic and Stipe Mesic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-04-0.u19807	The word has a folk MP Milos Lukic, followed by Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-04-0.u19808	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Prime Minister and the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister of the Federal Government, gentlemen of the Ministers, are beside us the starting points for redecorating relations between Serbia and Montenegro. I think this document should be called differently. This is actually a change of three constitutions: Yugoslavia, the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Montenegro. The President-in-Office of the Assembly has put this item on the agenda and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has not discussed it. It is certain that there may be a lot on the Committee that might even be in favour of this proposal, not to say that there would be self-critical tones. It would also be a unique opportunity for this committee to meet, because from the moment this assembly was established, this committee was not meeting, and it is not doing its job, and in public it is depleting and several versions of the Serbian Constitution appear, which is certainly not good. This document, in fact, given who signed it, is already producing a legal fact and this debate is only there to explain to the people, perhaps, something more detailed what this is about. After the adoption of this act, we are expected to have a very long procedure, which is to seek the opinion and conclusions of the assembly, meaning that only after that is the assembly debate, then to form a constitutional commission, and these are all the painful and painful jobs that will certainly not contribute, in any way, to regulate this issue more quality than is regulated by this act. After three years, we are awaiting a procedure for changing our status, i.e. we are expected to have a safe referendum in Montenegro. Why do I say - only in Montenegro. Because Serbia is being blackmailed by this act and must not seek disembarkation from the state community. It clearly writes, because only in this case, means that if Montenegro said itself that it wants to leave this community, Serbia would retain the state-law continuity, and in that case Resolution 1244, as the most important international act, would apply to this Serbia that would remain and retain that continuity. Several constitutional issues have been settled in this act. Of course, it's arranged in a hurry and there's no question about the people. First of all, the name of the state union has been changed. That might seem unserious. However, the name of a country is not a small thing and change the name and do not ask the people is at least irresponsible. Then, institutions were formed, such as -- the Assembly, the president, the council of ministers, the court, the economic area, the military area has been arranged, the military's way of commanding, and there is a provision for decision-making by consensus, which is safe for this institution to accept. A model was accepted for the military to be served in its republic, or state, which is, in fact, one of the essential elements of statehood. The presentation in the international community is scheduled through rotation and practically all issues are already settled. All that would later be done would be to elaborate these questions and I think it's actually the essence of this paper. All the arguments that have been made here have been expressed from different aspects, and especially the promoters have not been very consistent in that presentation, so I find that insincere. Because for the next three years, it's going to be in the agreeing details, in the tension over these issues that are just open here, and then in one and the other countries, there's going to be practical preparations for isolation. That is unequivocally said from this pay phone, and this will also serve as an excuse for the expected failure of reforms; they are widely told, however, I believe that this will be a convenient excuse for the failure of the reform, which was also expected. When such a situation, when no prior agreement has already been reached among the citizens, among the authorities, then among the parties from the government and the opposition, and we are witnessing that no agreement within the DOS coalition has been reached, then a logical question arises - why has one group of individuals, regardless of the functions it performs, taken responsibility for such a large issue. Why did this group of individuals accept to bury a country that she did not create, which she did not name, no matter what state she was and how she functioned; that instead of that deceased, we now get one stillborn, which we will also bury in three years. We feel that this is an extremely responsible question and that this should have been done much more seriously. The Serbian Unity Party believes that for this situation, for which the representatives of the authorities had no solution, there is only one solution: instead of taking responsibility for such a large issue, they should have discussed extraordinary elections at all levels and in some ways freed those responsibilities and transferred to those who are willing to accept responsibility for the life of this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-04-0.u19809	The word has been made by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic, and after that, MP Nebojsa Jovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-04-0.u19810	This is a document proposed by the European Union, or as the representatives of the government have said -- imposed by the European Union, whose representative is Javier Solana. Of course, the intentions are always good when it comes to the European Union, especially when it comes to the personality of Javier Solana. He always has good intentions for Serbia-Montenegro in this case, especially the majority Serb people. It's already, as they say, both the sparrows known and the sparrows know on the branches that he has good intentions. What are the good intentions that are contained in this Charter? First, the good intention is that the new community will have the assembly, have the president, the council of ministers and the court. The assembly will be one-home. What election will there be? Following the confirmation of the signatories of the agreement -- new elections will be held at the federal level, and thus, when the republic's constitutions change, there will be elections at the federal level, and in this case also at the level of the Republic of Montenegro and Serbia. However, after the signing, there was a second explanation. The prime minister of the Republic of Serbia said -- there is no choice while the current government has an absolute majority. There is no direct choice -- says Montenegro's prime minister. Representatives to the Federal Assembly will be delegated to parliament. And what do we expect, what's it gonna be for the next three years? It's going to be worse than it is now. Why? Well, because since MPs are elected in this way, most of them will be those who drag Montenegro and Serbia into an ever-increasing and larger crisis. What kind of president are we going to have? It will be unprecedented so far, and even in Broz's time or more precisely after his death, this combination is not made, we'll have a one-and-a-half-year president. That president will neither be a child nor a baby. To begin with, they suggest that this one-and-a-half-year-old child be Kostunica, just as his thinking fits that age. What is a principled remark, it is that Montenegro's parliament has been discussing this charter for several days. For several days now, there has been a bile debate in the parliament of Montenegro, the fate of Montenegro, its community with Serbia is resolved, and the generous assembly majority gives us 10 hours to discuss a document that literally means the future of a people living in both Serbia and Montenegro. I really don't have the words for such generosity. We in the SRS have criticised this document and those who have been present since the very beginning of the negotiations, including the act of signing itself. I was personally scared when I heard the words of Miroljub Labus, as he predicted in his visionary policy, if Serbia-Montenegro split, what would my God be with Kosovo and Metohija, what would happen to the Republic of Serbia? So from the very coming to power of the Republic of Serbia, gentlemen of the DOS, you've written it off. At every moment, at every shift from the international community and a sign to put Republika Srpska under the outside wall of sanctions, you do so before they make their request. How come you now remember Republika Srpska in that vision of yours, how you didn't think of it specifically, Kosovo and Metohija, Mr Labus, when they covered your eyes with the fact that in the event of the separation of Serbia-Montenegro, the right to Kosovo and Metohija, will be simplified by saying that it is Serbia, because this constitutional charter above Resolution 1244 brought by the United Nations. Why didn't you react then? I've been moved by your words that you've been in a mood as an eminent professor; you've always used softer expressions, you mean, you've been angry. But fortunately, he calmed you down with his words yesterday put out for this pay phone, and today again, the prime minister of the Serbian government, when he said that except, Mr. Labus, you're using your heart and stomach, you have to use something else in your head. And you admitted yourself that you calmed down when you realized after Mr. Djindjic's exposure that it was a reality. So you included what the Prime Minister of Serbia has appealed to. What with great pleasure can you from most DOS in the future claim, it is that you entered history when you adopted this charter. You have entered history as well as that individual named Mesic, who said he has fulfilled his mission, Yugoslavia no longer exists. By adopting this charter, you will fulfill the task, Yugoslavia will no longer exist, and there will still be a dilemma in the people who are greater Stipe or you or Mesic?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-04-0.u19811	The words came from Justice and Local Self-Government Minister Mr. Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-04-0.u19812	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I didn't mean to speak today, but certain people's emissaries obviously misread what I said yesterday and what motives led me to draw my own opinion. I repeat again very briefly: because a common DOS platform and the coalition "Together for Yugoslavia" has not been respected, declaring two principles -- a functional Federation and a single economic space. Secondly, because the coalition agreement between DOS and the Together for Yugoslavia coalition is not respected. Third, because from a constitutional and legal point of view, this is a very disputable creation. I took out a shine of arguments yesterday. I don't think there's any need to repeat that. And finally, because there is no respect for the will of the citizens of this country. I would like to remind you that the citizens of Montenegro in 1992 had the opportunity to declare in a referendum whether they wanted to live in the common state. To the Serbian people and citizens of Serbia, such an opportunity has never been given. It is a fundamental civil right and I do not believe that the right to self-determination or the principle of national sovereignty, not the European Union or any international institution, could challenge the citizens of any country. It's a basic and elemental right. It was said that what I was saying in a way was a political calculation, calculated at political points. I remind you that I belong to a party of 14. Last July, she passed a resolution seeking a referendum in Serbia, and had a six-month campaign backwards. Therefore, it was not affected by the decision arising under this Agreement. It was also said that I was saying that I would allegedly amnesty the prime minister of the Republic of Serbia. That's just not true. Why did I mention the president of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia? Because he is precisely calling for the traditional one, that every country should have its own host, so he is hosting the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. And even if you read the Constitution, and if you look at the jurisdiction of the President of the Union, you know exactly who's most responsible. So, when there's a host, the locals, they can sort of ask themselves, but the host decides. The mayor's decision on the fate of the city of Belgrade is not decided by the president of the municipality of Stari Grad. It's a crystal clear thing. It has been said that the consequences of possible separation can be strofical or catastrophic. That's not true either. We and Montenegrins are brothers, there would never be any conflict and there is no fear of any catastrophic consequences. I'm just afraid that we can lose a lot of time, and that's why I consider it a completely legitimate commitment to independent Serbia, and then it can go with Montenegro and with some other Republika Srpska, to make some forms of state union, alliance of states, maybe some union, because we don't even have a monetary, customs union here, this proposed solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-04-0.u19813	I'd like to ask our guest, the vice president of the federal government, Dr. Miroljub Labus, to speak to us.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-04-0.u19814	I answered the word and listened carefully to the debate in Parliament. Like I said, it was both a duty and an honor to be here. Since we are not going to finish the debate today, I will not be able to be here on Monday and Tuesday because I am going to Brussels, at the invitation of the European Union, to discuss further the implementation of this agreement. Then we will see how serious the European Union really is to help bring the economic system into line with one and the other republics. That's why I'd like to answer some of the remarks I've heard during the debate, if you'll excuse me. Of course, there were many general political objections. I see you had a great inspiration, it was really a discussion of inspiring nature, but I wouldn't talk about them, it's a matter of political debate. I'd like to talk about concrete remarks. Unfortunately, there were only four serious objections or suggestions and I want to comment on them. The first is that the procedure for amending the Constitution is wrong. We have a political part of changing the Constitution here. Within each procedure, there is a political part and then a formal - legal part. It has been said that first we should have come here to parliament to adopt some platform and then with that platform we go further into negotiations. I don't think that's the problem. There are two ways: before we get the Parliament's verification or later. What is important is that Parliament decides; whether or not sooner or later, it is a matter of technique. What would happen in this case, if we had previously come to parliament and talked here: The DOS would, of course, come out with a platform that we adopted together with the coalition "Together for Yugoslavia", or most of the DOS, or the whole DOS would be there; the SPS would be divided, since, as I have heard these two days, one part is for independent Serbia, the other is for a strong Federation; the SSJ and the SRS would be for independent Serbia or for a strong Yugoslavia i.e. The unitary Yugoslavia. Therefore, we would not be unique and most would adopt the platform we had when we went to negotiations. Then what would happen? If we did, we would come to negotiations, we wouldn't sign this contract, in any way, because then we would be firmly bound by this platform, before Parliament comes back, and all over again, multiple times. What would happen in Montenegro in the meantime? Let's look real. Neither side of Montenegro wanted to go to the referendum. That's the reality of not fooling ourselves. There wouldn't be a referendum. Then, slowly, the current Montenegrin government would continue to surround its economic and political system and by the end of the year we would have an independent Montenegro. If parliament met again to give us authority to sign or not, everything would be too late - Montenegro would be independent. This is the last moment we stopped that train; yesterday I said we had no guarantee that we had stopped it - it depends on us. But this was the last moment to stop it. In November or December - too late, absolutely too late. Therefore, no mistake was made that we did not first come to parliament. It would have been a mistake if we hadn't come to the Parliament at all and that would have been unforgivable! We're here, and you're gonna say yes or no. It's democracy. You can always say no; and in any case, all of us who have signed will suffer political consequences. As far as the constitutional proceedings are concerned, nothing has been hurt yet. This is a political platform. It is being adopted, and after that it is working to adopt a constitutional charter. Both the republican parliament will adopt the charter and then it will go to the federal parliament. After that, there is a change in one and the other republican constitution. And the change of the federal constitution and the change of the republican constitution goes according to constitutional procedure. That's understood. Therefore, the procedure will be respected. So, I don't think, even though it was really a serious objection to me, that the procedure was not respected. I don't think we made any serious mistakes here, and I don't think there'd be any other result if we'd done it differently. The second question is who will finance the new common state. It will be financed from the contribution of both republics' budgets. You will be here, and the parliament in Montenegro will make its share of the contribution to the common register, then you will adopt the budget of the common state and that will be the budget with all those divisions; we now have a ranking of up to four decimals, so to say, tomorrow will be by six. So, you will determine how much money will go to the common state and what it will be spent on, by thinking that it would be wise for these three years to ensure a stable financing of that common state to be made, indicatively, a decision for the next three years, so that there will be no debate every year about whether an icy or another state is more or less funded by the common state, a team before it is the biggest beneficiary of that budget by the military. To avoid problems, it is sufficient for both parliaments to determine their contributions or principles once and for three years to finance the common register. If this isn't good, here we only had one realistic or realistic counter-proposal - it's an independent Serbia. Technically, independent Serbia can be achieved. You can't force a unitary state, that's impossible. We don't want to force Montenegro in any way to impose a solution. As you have seen, no strong Federation can force itself. We don't want to force it or impose it. What we could have done, that's to separate Serbia from Yugoslavia. I don't think that would be good right now, for a lot of reasons. The first is -- it would not be a problem of conflict between us and Montenegro, it would be a conflict in Montenegro. We couldn't avoid it without getting involved tomorrow, whether we wanted to or not. That would be terribly bad for us. The other thing is Kosovo, whether you think we took care of Kosovo or not. We've been keeping an eye on each other. It was a weak negotiating map for us, because we knew that we had to maintain now in any form of the common state, in order for Resolution 1244 to continue to work. It was our weak position, because we took care of Kosovo, but we got three years to do something. The third thing, which is very important, and twice mentioned, is the question of patriotism, the issue of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Republika Srpska. To remind you, the Dayton Treaty was signed in 1995, you signed it, we're going to ratify it. It is an international obligation that must be respected. (Vojislav Seselj: Who signed it? ) Slobodan Milosevic signed. We were all for it, not just him, because it was one moment the only way to solve that problem. It's an international obligation. Of course, if Serbia were to stand out now, there is no reason for us to tell the Serbs in Republika Srpska that they do not have the right to vote and join us, but that would mean violating this international obligation. That way we cannot join the Serbs in Serbia. That is our long-term national goal. But how? By going to Europe and us, and Montenegro, and Bosnia and Herzegovina. We'll all go to Europe together and then there won't be any boundaries. That's why we're in a hurry to go to Europe. That is why we should encourage both Bosnia and Herzegovina and Republika Srpska to go to Europe. It's the only way, calm, the only rational way to achieve our goal. You can argue that otherwise it can be realized, it is your right, but I think there is no other solution in a normal, peaceful, rational way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-04-0.u19815	I thank Mr. Vice President of the Federal Government. (Vojislav Seselj: Replica. There is no basis for replication. (Vojislav Seselj: According to the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-04-0.u19816	How can you say that Miroljub Labus did not take offense to the Serbian Radical Party when he said the SRS is for independent Serbia. We have never asked for it anywhere, we have not advocated it, nor have we ever been for independent Serbia, this modern-day Serbia. We're for the preservation of SRJ, but it can be under a different name. It is not a problem with the name you are proposing - Serbia-Montenegro can, under that name, be much better than the name Yugoslavia, but not to split the already existing state. What Labus is telling us here has nothing to do with elemental logic. Maybe we're in no position to preserve that federal republic. Maybe we didn't. The great powers threaten her survival. Then at least we don't have to participate in her destruction. With this document, you're pulling us in to participate in the destruction. If we can't save her, let the great forces tear her apart. We can't keep Montenegro separate, but at least try to keep it. You're helping separate Montenegro. Labus told the real truth here, afraid of the Western forces. He also fears that if Montenegro separates, there will be a civil war in Montenegro. To prevent this civil war, you Montenegro allow soft separation for three years and Serbia to suffer for three years. If the civil war threatens, it will be the easiest way to avoid it by giving up detachment. If they continue to insist on separation, then let it be a civil war, and whoever wins there in that civil war: if those who are to separate win, let them be separated; if those who are for the common state, let the common state survive. Why are you threatening us here in Serbia with civil war in Montenegro?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-04-0.u19817	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Branislav Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-04-0.u19818	Your Honor, Madam Chairman, Mr. Labus, you have said that you have noticed different views with the SPS MPs. I assure you that it certainly seemed to you, because the SPS has a decadent and clear view: we are for the common state of the Republic of Montenegro and Serbia; we are for a country that will, perhaps, have, reorganised relations with the current relations within the SRJ; for a country that will have a single system of defence and foreign affairs and a single system of protection of human rights. What you find difficult to defend is a unique economic system. I know it's not easy for you, because you belong to a coalition that has promised the survival of Yugoslavia by coming to power. Mr. Kostunica, your president, after his entry into the UN has declared that he has preserved Yugoslavia. Now you, as a respected professor from a particular area, knowing that without a single economic system there is no state, you have to make something that is practically unsustainable. We believe it was a mistake, and it would have been easier for you to negotiate, and I am glad that Prime Minister Djindjic admitted and accepted it, that the parliamentary opposition also had the opportunity with you to participate in the negotiations. It would be easier for you, because we would certainly be more firm, at least you could take it out on us. It's certain we had an argument to fight for a single economic space. A country that has two markets, two coins, two banks, two customs systems, then we simply realize that it is really a transitional variant to the separatism of Montenegro! Now, we've come to a very unpleasant position, and the SPS cannot accept the basics.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-04-0.u19819	This would end today's work (Dragan Marković: Replica. ( ) On what basis of the replicas? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-04-0.u19820	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Labus said the Serbian Unity Party advocates independent Serbia. The Serbian Unity Party is for the common state, but not as Mr. Labus suggests, and not in these frameworks, as Mr. Labus suggests. The Serbian Unity Party had a proposal to call a referendum in both republics, so that the citizens of Montenegro and Serbia decide whether to accept such an agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-04-0.u19821	We continue work on Tuesday, April 9th, at 10.00 hours. Bon appétit. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, the session is attended by 170 MPs and I ask you to insert identification cards into your MPs to determine the quorum. I find that the application of the electronic system has established that we have a quorum and that we can continue our work. I inform you that they are prevented from attending the following MPs: Stevan Lilić, Milutin Svetović, Velimir Simonović, Alen Selimović, Išpanovic Istvan, Kasa Jožef and Višnja Nežić; Milos Lučić (announced late). I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the president of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, Dr Vojislav Kostunica, Deputy Prime Minister of the Federal Government Dr Miroljub Labus, Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia Dr Zoran Djindjic, Vice-President, Minister and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of Serbia's Legislative Secretariat. Also, according to members 83 and 84. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia inform you that I invited representatives of the Centre for Free Elections and Democracy, representatives of the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities of Yugoslavia, representatives of the Student Union of Serbia, representatives of the Alliance of Students of Belgrade, students of the Constitutional Law Group at the Faculty of Law of the University of Belgrade and representatives of the National Movement of the Resistance. I welcome the guests present. We move to the 3rd point of the agenda: - COMMUNICATION BASES FOR THE PREFERENCE OF SERBIA AND BLACK GORE (the continuation of the Single Search) The Word has a National MP Nebojsa Jović, followed by a National MP Đuro Popović.
