ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20450	This is an amendment submitted by the Democratic Party of Serbia, that the same person cannot be elected more than twice as rector or proctor. In accordance with the laws applicable to the president of the state and to all others, it is illogical that someone can perform a function for life. We're about that if the president of the state can't be elected more than twice, why could he be a elected rector. The same goes for the dean. The government of the Republic of Serbia has given an amendment in almost identical text. The amendment was accepted on the Committee, so we are in principle in agreement with the amendment given by the Government. It's about the same amendment, it's just a different order of words, and that's why we're giving up on our amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20451	I find that the amendment to Article 101, which was submitted by a group of MPs, has been withdrawn. Members of the 101st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Bora Stanimirovic and Zivodarka Dacin. The government and the Education Committee did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment as possible first. The word has a folk emissary of the Life-giving Dacin.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20452	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, of fellow Members of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia, Prof. Dr. Bora Stanimirovic and I have submitted an amendment to Article 101, which reads in the draft law: "The choice of the Rector and the Vice President is done without competition, for two years, from the order of regular professors who are in full-time working with one of the colleges." Our proposal is to add the following sentence after this, "The same person can be elected to the function of the Rector, i.e. the predictor, no more than twice in a row". We simply wanted this restriction to be made, simply because of the fact that it could be a double danger: for one who would have unlimited power to be a rector or predictor, because there could be abuses that there were a lot of words about here; and therefore, to separate one professional man from the basic activity and from the teaching. On the other hand, we thought of why he would not give this opportunity to other people, who may be better shown in the work; and if not, that one who was in two terms a rector or a proctor might be re-elected in some later period. Given the fact and the reason that the government has given an amendment to this same Article 101, which we agree with, because the basic idea is satisfied, on behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, I am withdrawing this amendment. If you'll excuse me, I would take the opportunity not to report back, since it is an absolutely identical member and an identical explanation for article 109 with a correction, and this time it refers to the deans and the beads, that on behalf of the parliamentary group I am withdrawing this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20453	I find the Parliament of the People's People's People's Republic of Dacina has withdrawn the amendment to Article 101. On Article 102, the amendment was submitted by Parliament of People Gordana Pop-Lazic. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20454	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Article 102 defines the choice and resolution of the university's rector and provides that it is within the jurisdiction of the university council, and that candidates for the rector propose teaching and scientific, or teaching-art major colleges and institutes within the faculty. The third position of this member is contradictory to itself and quite confusing, in practice practically inconclusive, because it says that candidates for the procurator are proposing a candidate for a rector in the order of regular professors. In practice, there will be more candidates for the rector. Which one of these candidates is going to propose a vice president? The SRS Parliament Club proposed, by its amendment, the following concept and by respecting the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in particular the Article 58, which states that the property and work of the governance and participation in the decision-making process, has proposed to appoint and resolve the founder; the university's Rector appoints and resolves the rector, because these are his direct associates, in practice we have a teacher for teaching, for finance; and the student's editor is appointed from the order of students for a period of two years. According to us, the concept of the university's founder should be implemented to the end. Mr. Minister, in the light of the bill's proposal, although yesterday, on several occasions, you defended this law in a jargon language, which speaks of your level of education and culture, at one point as a professor of law school, you said, defending the government's position -- the legislator wanted that, too. We can't forgive you for that. The legislator is the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, not the Government of the Republic of Serbia. What a minister, like that and a bill of law. But, in the light of the law, where, of course, the 1998 University Act is being attacked and where it is claimed that it abolished the autonomy of the university although, of course, you misread the autonomy of the university, you say the founder of universities and colleges was the government. It's not the government, it's the state of Serbia. The universities and colleges are funded by the citizens of this country, filling the country's budget. They transfer their decision-making rights to us, the MPs and indirectly through us to the government. That is why the government, on behalf of citizens, should practically manage the university as one institution of national importance. That's why your concept and approach to managing the university is wrong. If we look at this whole law, which is quite contradictory and unspeakable, we'll see that you haven't changed much compared to the 1998 law, but you've come back, when it comes to governance, to 1992, even many years ago. You're saying it's one of the perilous newspapers, because formerly universities and colleges were independent legal entities without the express governing powers of the government. Who, when this law is passed, if passed, will manage universities and universities? Who will be to blame if universities and universities do not work properly, if employees, or teachers are unhappy, or if students are dissatisfied? The government washed her hands, she's no longer responsible for the state of the university. Is that a rector? Not even a rector. Is that the dean? No. It's collective bodies, university advice or college advice. Where collective responsibility is, we know from practice, there's no responsibility. So, gentlemen, professors and gentlemen of the students, to know that in the future you can complain as much as you want, no one will blame you for this assembly that has passed this law if you bring it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20455	Anybody else answer for a word? Minister of Education, Mr. Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20456	I apologize to all the MPs if I lose what is due to me. It wasn't a Freudian mistake, it was just a lapus linguae. I know who the legislative body is, but maybe, sitting here with you, I've had some time with you. What I've reported for, it's to intervene that it's not an impossible legal solution. The legal solution is very possible, because the rector proposes his team of predictors and each of the competitors enters with his own team into the election process.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20457	The word has the deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group, MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20458	Listening to these arguments, it turns out that we're choosing the president of the United States, so the candidate for president is proposing candidates to make up some of his teams. However, Articles 101, 102 and 103 reflect to a large extent the desire of the legislator to make everything look like something without being what we look like, i.e. everything turns into a beautiful landscape and goes public as well, especially among citizens who voted for DOS and who have made completely different promises in the election campaign. Let me remind you, Article 102 provides for the rector and the proctor to choose and resolve the university's council. When DOS wanted to come to power and presented itself to Serbian citizens, it formulated one promise and said -- the choice of rectors, deans, teachers and co-workers will be in the exclusive jurisdiction of scientific and educational councils and institutes, which will be attended by all staffed teachers, co-workers and researchers; so, when elected by a teacher, it is decided by all the teachers or co-workers in the ranks of whoever is elected or in the upper rankings. When a rector is elected and the proctor is elected, he is chosen by the university's advice. In that university council, you have only two university representatives, one representative of the university's institute, one tenth of the number of those representatives from the student parliament and one quarter of those representatives on behalf of the founders, in this case the Government of the Republic of Serbia, although the DOS promise is that representatives of the government will be completely excluded from the decision-making process at the university and will not be represented in any of its executive bodies. How will the government determine a quarter of the university council without being representatives of the government and not being represented by the government through them in the executive body? The attitude towards the promoter and the student procurator shows how much you're actually cheating on the students themselves. The promoter is elected for two years, and the student promoter for a year. The principal is elected by the university's council and the student's proctor's student parliament. As soon as you bring down the level that decides on someone, you bring down the level of their importance. One who has not chosen the advice of the university cannot be as important as the one the council has chosen. The one chosen by the student parliament, by the procedure that has not been delivered to us here at all, because we will now have the student parliament of the university and the student parliament of each individual college, so we do not know who will decide first on the composition of the student parliament of the university, and then how the student parliament of the university will decide on the composition of its members from the university council. All in all, to avoid the 1998 solutions, solutions that are much uglier, much more self-rule than those of 1998 were resorted to. This is the humiliation of the founding father of the university. Start us a university to humiliate you after, to show you how little you're worth to us, we just need your rooms, your inventory, your money, to fund the university, and we who don't have it, we only have the brains to run that university in a way that you won't even be able to lead the university to get involved with us. The SRS will never be able to accept such solutions. He'll never run away from responsibility. The responsibility of leading the university cannot be fallen employees at the university and one day when chaos occurs there will be no blame in the government of the Republic of Serbia, and the government of the Republic of Serbia is guilty. What you regulate with this bill should be financed by all citizens of Serbia. (President: Time. I'm done. Serbian citizens will seek out who is responsible if the situation at the university is not what they want it to be. Then there is no hiding behind the council, scientific councils, election councils, and then whoever was supposed to run the university will answer, and knowingly, he escaped because there are 50,000-60,000 students in Belgrade alone who sometimes know how to reverse the political situation.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20459	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 35, against 106, the abstentions, did not vote 41, out of 182 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Toma Busetic, Zarko Obradovic, Branko Ružić, Slobodan Tomovic and Milan Stankovic. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here's a word from the People's Messenger, Tom Bushetic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20460	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a group of SPS MPs has proposed an amendment of the 102s. In order to make it clearer, this article says that the vice president and the proctors are elected and resolved by the university's council, that candidates for the rector propose a teaching - scientifically larger, or teaching-art major colleges and institutes in the form of universities. In our view, this third position is disputed, where it is said, that candidates for the vice president propose a candidate for a rector in the order of regular professors. We don't think this solution makes any sense, that candidates for a vice president can propose a rector, not a rector's candidate. It is simply not necessary to associate the choice of the Rector with the choice of the Rector in this way, because what happens if the university's council elects a vice president rather than a rector, rather than a new candidate for the rector proposes another candidate for the vice president and so on. I think this remark is very relevant and that this amendment of ours should be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20461	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? Yes, please, MP Bora Stanimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20462	Ladies and gentlemen, counterpart Bushetic is absolutely right when he insists that this is not accepted and asks for the amendment submitted by the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary club. This is about one practical thing - when selecting a vice president and vice president all colleges of a particular university propose candidates, and it's not the same as in college. They're proposing candidates, so, for both the proctors and the rectors. There can be 20 candidates and more, there can be three rectors and so on. I think it's better, more correct, because otherwise we're going to cause such confusion that what my colleague Bushetic said earlier can happen - to choose a proctor without choosing a rector. Why in the package? It's good, it can be one team in production, in the factory, but here, starting from the very structure, of the university community actually being a community of all colleges in a particular region, it's certainly much harder to make a choice of rectors and proctors in this way. So we suggest - first select a rector, and then the rector can propose, based on the proposal of teaching -- scientific higher-faculties, a particular person who will either be elected or not. Unless he agrees with the candidates, unless they are actually elected, he doesn't have to perform that function. We think that far more cellular and far better, less confusion, less problems, normally the choice would be made at the university if the rector was first elected, i.e. First he jumps and then says hop, not propose the whole team, on what grounds. Secondly, yesterday, without thinking, we made an oversight by adopting this amendment by Professor Simonovic to Article 98, where teachers at the university stop working at 65. What's next? I would ask the Board of Education or the Government or the Ministry to make some transitional provision, which would allow people who started this school year - yes, but in law, it does not stand, in a sense of clarity - to do so by the end of the school year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20463	The Minister of Education, Mr. Gašo Knezevic, called for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20464	To this second question is a concrete answer, according to the law, it is normal until the end of the school year, all teachers retire in October of the current year, just as they end the school year. As for the second, the rectors and proctors are chosen as a team, and whether their choice will be a sociometric category or otherwise come to it, my problem is toned. It's a problem for people who choose, or who are candidates for the election.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20465	Does anyone else sign up for a word? Please, MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the DOS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20466	Mrs. Micic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I will try to bring a little more facts into this amendment, given that this type of initiative has already been repeated several times, doubting the candidate's capacity for the rector and possibly the bad consequences and the fact that the rector's candidate is also proposing candidates for procurators. Let's go back to the position where the people who are supposed to choose the rector -- on what basis, on what criteria are they going to choose for the person who will lead the university? Is perhaps based on his work plan, based on what he wants to do at the university; what is the most concrete evidence, arguments that can materialize such ideas over a period of time from that standard mandate? So, when the vice president comes before the people who choose him, he proposes candidates for procurators, a person who will deal with university finances, or a person who will teach at the university. These people are actually people who promote an idea that is being established at the university during the period foreseen by this law, therefore, during the period of the regular term. If we in advance question the ability of a rector candidate, I ask you what logic is, since it suspends a kind of right that is superior in itself to everything that has been said so far. In the previous law, the university is treated as an enterprise, so Article 109 says - the director has the authority of the company's director, and we just heard that college or university are not a production hall where the director can be appointed, and then that director consults in the policy he will lead. I agree with that finding, but it's completely different from what we've been through. So the rector's candidate should propose his plan, and the plan is recognised among other things in the procuring candidates, whether it is the person who will deal with the university's finance or teaching plan. Only after these people come together as a team can they get support. Everything else is actually the degradation of the university, because if we don't believe in the ability of people who will choose the rector and those who are running for rector, then let's ask the question do we need universities? I think we also need that we have no real reason for this kind of dispute between the role of the rector and the people who choose him.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20467	The word has been made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20468	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this is about the electoral system. Nowhere in the bill of law does it say that we choose the dictator, to choose the rector and the proctors, or to advise the university to choose them from the list. He writes specifically that he chooses the rector's advice and especially that he chooses the proctor. You can come to an absurd situation to be elected a provost, not to be a candidate for the vice president who proposed him to be a vice president, and that the proctor must decide whether or not he will remain a proctor if someone else is elected to the vice president. That list isn't tied. Or now, even though he's elected, even though the council has confidence in him, he's going to say, I'm not going to be a prophesy because you didn't choose the fortune teller I'm connected to. It could have been solved in law and that way. It could have been said -- the university's council is choosing a list, an election list, a list made up of a rector's candidate. The election list includes a rector's candidate and proctor's candidate. Then it's not the essence of university autonomy at all. It degrades certain people. Anyone can be a candidate for a vice president. Everyone, and not to be tied to a rector candidate. Why would he be tied up? Do you think the rector's candidate will know a few thousand teachers who come into consideration for the proctor? Then who's gonna make the list? Will it be the personnel combinations within the ruling coalition? They will, I know they will, so one will be from one party, the other from the other, and the third from the third. That's what you should say here. Then it's not autonomy, then it has nothing to do with autonomy. I think we should make a rector's selection, and then after that, the rector will propose candidates for the proctors. Doesn't mean he'll fall if he doesn't get elected proctors. Perhaps the university's advice will look for the highest quality, perhaps the university's advice doubtes the quality of the candidate for the vice president, and will choose him because he wants this rector. Then you'll get a very bad solution at the university. You may not want to think about it as legislators now, but you'll have that problem safely when there's an election at the university.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20469	According to the Rules of Procedure? National MP Bora Stanimirovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20470	I agree with what the minister just said, and it's okay for teachers who are 65 or 67 years old this school year, given this newspaper that we've introduced here, they're doing it by the end of the school year. That's what the law says. However, yesterday, by adopting the amendment of Professor Simonovic, we deleted that attitude, which is Article 98 of Article 2 which reads: "The working relationship of the teacher who turned 65 can be extremely extended and based on the reasoned proposal of the Greater College, and the longest until the end of the school year in which he turned 67 years of life". We've been erasing that attitude, and I'd like to ask that something be done. (Gaso Knezevic, from the post: You have the first position that says - by the end of the school year. ( ) The first attitude is up to 65 years old. We have people who are 66 and 67 years old, who have been extended before. What about them? (Gasho Knezevic, from the place: Of course he will stay.) He'll stay, but...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20471	Since there are no more applications for this amendment, I am putting the amendments to the vote. For 51, against 51, a abstentioned one, did not vote 42, a total of 185 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Predrag Stojanovic to Article 103. The government and the Education Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Blazic to Article 103. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Here's a word from MP Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20472	Ladies and gentlemen, in Articles 101, 102 and 103, the conceptal differences between the SRS, on the one hand and the DOS are, on the other hand, primarily based on what is personal responsibility, what are obligations, rights, and the powers of individuals located in certain places, above all here on the subject of university rectors. That's why, with this amendment, I wanted to point out that DOS does not adhere to a concept it declares itself to. When we passed the Law on Local Self-Government and when it comes to selecting the president of the municipality, it was such a concept that DOS pointed out the need for an individual to have authority but also responsibility. There's a whole other concept here now, that the university's rector has virtually no authority and is not ultimately defined by all his rights and obligations. This is the university's rector running the university, and the statute brings advice to the university. Therefore, there is something that is contradictory in the functioning of something that should be when an individual in a very responsible place needs to do so and has the authority. An open question arises, if certain problems arise, there is no definition here of who will be responsible for some problems at the university. It's something with self-management elements, with elements of collective responsibility, it's not defined until the end. As a result, I have completely changed and defined clearly to the end the responsibilities and obligations of the university's rectors.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20473	Is there anyone else applying for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 53, against 110, the abstentions were not voted 24, a total of 187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic has submitted an amendment, with an amendment, suggesting a new member of 103a be added after article 103a. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic does not have the right to speak after her word has been taken from her. National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic also does not have the right to speak, since I do not accept this authority because it is not timely, under Article 38. You can read it, of course. You asked me to apply a strict Rules of Procedure. Does anyone else want a word? (Employer Stamenkovic asks for a word. You can't get the word. Since there's no word for it, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 45, against 102 abstentions, there were no 40 votes, a total of 187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 104th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Toma Busetic, Zarko Obradovic, Branko Ružić, Slobodan Tomovic and Milan Stankovic. The government and the Education Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MP Srboljub Zivanovic submitted the amendment to Article 104. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The applicant for the amendment is not present. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 50, against 107, the abstentions did not vote 30, out of 187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Bratoljub Janackovic. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He has the word National MP Bratoljub Janackovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20474	Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the New Democracy MPs, and on my personal behalf, I have submitted a dozen amendments, with the ambition to propose a law on the university, which is an undisputed step forward towards a real reform law, to correct it. Since the government refused all the amendments, at first I felt pretty bad, thinking that I missed the subject and that we were talking in two different languages, for which we don't have translators. However, after principled discussions and debates, with distinguished Prime Minister Knezevic, it seems to me that we have agreed and that we still speak one language. For these reasons, I have withdrawn or given up on the previous amendments, because we have all agreed here that it is one transitional law and that the real reforms of the university will only follow. In addition to these amendments and this law on university autonomy and a good part given to those who manage the education process to decide on it, I wanted to move on; well, in addition to choosing and solving in different segments, and in particular the advice, in addition to choosing and solving, to introduce an institute called self-evaluation, self-evaluation and responsibility for decision-making, in which they themselves participate and create. Therefore, the substance of the amendment was to consider once a year a report on the achievement and assessment of the quality of curricula and programmes of basic, master's and doctoral studies; once every two years to consider and to assess the compliance of curricula and programmes with scientific achievements, on a proposal from a higher university. The government's argument was that the amendment should not be accepted because there is a reform in the field of university education, which will institutionalise the process and conditions of self-valuation and evaluation of institutions and curricula and programmes. And after this, again, I am saying, truly honest and fair reasoning of the government, I believe that we and on this issue have agreed, and in the future, in order to make parliament more efficient, to give up the next amendments, because their essence was, in fact, that perhaps a little while ago, a step more towards university reform. But I'm saying, since we've already agreed that it's a process that has no beginning or end, that's one goal that's always in the end, that all the proposed laws, not only this university law, are actually constantly subject to additions and changes, I'm also going to accept this kind of reasoning of the government, and I'm not going to explain the amendments in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20475	Did you withdraw the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20476	Yeah.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20477	I find the amendment to Article 104 has been withdrawn. National MP Lazar Marjanski has tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 104a be added after article 104. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Whether the applicant of the amendment wants a word. There's a word from MP Lazar Marjanski.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20478	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, I know the amendment has not been accepted, but I will explain it. Probably a lot of people here who defend amendments didn't make money in the economy. I'll give you my amendment you'll probably think about and see who's right. Namely, I suggested that after Article 104, which discusses the advice of the university, as a member of 104a adds: "The board of directors of the university: it adopts the statutes of the university, decides on the use of university funds, adopts a financial plan, an annual accounting and a report on the business of the university, discusses student standards issues, adopts annual work programmes and development plans." All of this should be in accordance with the law. Here's what it's all about; in my opinion, "the council" says -- it's an advisory body, which has no responsibility. You see, the founder of one company, in this case the founder of the university is the Government, must have administrative and executive bodies, such as the board of directors, the Supervisory Board, to control the work of the university. Imagine that in the economy one founder has no control over his executive bodies. I think two things should be separated -- the interest of the founder, which I was talking about, and the interest of science, where advice would suggest to the founder, through their organs, to adopt doctoral dissertation, etc. The Founder must have his own interest in protecting his assets. Because we know they're getting funds from the budget. How to fill the budget - from economy, agriculture, etc. Minister, one dinar in agriculture and economy is like 100 dinars from the budget. To earn one dinar in economy and agriculture -- yesterday we saw, there were barricades, peasants put up barricades -- it's extremely difficult, it's extremely bloody. The easiest way to get money out of the budget is to spend it. I'm not saying you spend someone else's money, but you spend the money on someone who fills that budget. The one who fills the budget, the one who has to have control over these funds, must know where the money is spent, must know how much it needs to be, if it needs to be reduced -- to reduce it, and only it can be through the supervisory authority and the board of directors. Because the board of directors is criminally, morally and materially accountable to the law and not to the council. According to our law, the advice doesn't fit. One board of directors, if it makes the wrong decision in one firm, which is at the expense of the company, it is criminally responsible, and the council is not responding. So please accept this amendment. I think the point is in the board of directors and boards, so the founder has his own control over the others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20479	Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 48, against 97, the abstentions were not voted 39, out of 184 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Moroljub Veljkovic. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does an authorised representative of the motionor want a word? Here's a word from MP Moroljub Veljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20480	If any of the current authorities were so bitterly criticised and attacked in the previous period, then it was the University Law. The law certainly had its drawbacks, but it contained general principles. They had a reform character compared to previous self-government experience. I guess that's where we all get along. First of all, I mean clearly defining the rights and obligations of the founder, or the state, because the state owns the university. Trees and stones at that time, as the opposition then, have come down upon that law. It was lovely to see at the time, especially on local televisions, critics of the law, where 90% of them did not even read the law, and the vast majority of them did not pass the university, or university. The pattern was absolutely the same -- the existing university law is stifling the autonomy of the university. And you come to power. No matter what campaign you promised in the election campaign, for all the areas, the maltenes for everyone, social life, you have finished reform solutions, we've waited two years for this law. I honestly thought and hoped that after so much time we would get such a law, such a legal solution about the university, that virtually the whole of Europe should be neglected. For two years, it took this government to submit a nearly legal solution to the university it had promised, so the minister here would now tell us that it was a temporary solution again. I was particularly in that belief and I thought so, given the fact that the head of this team for the construction of this university reform law is one such capacity as Mr. Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20481	Mr. Veljkovic, this is not a principle debate on the law of the university. You have an amendment to article 105 relating to major universities.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20482	Mrs. Micic, you are tenant and malicious. I'm talking about my amendment and I'm making an introduction to explain my amendment. You, of course, get a chance to overcome that famous Radoman Bozovic, with your behavior. Let me, please, finish and explain my amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20483	I'm telling you to get back on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20484	What am I talking about? I'm not talking about horses. I'm talking about the university law and my amendment. But what did we get from this new bill? Here, let's ask the students upstairs from the gallery if it's an announced university reform. Is this it? I don't think this proposed solution is. The government simply made a combination of Cardell University and an existing solution, with some additional solutions that are even more restrictive to the actual autonomy of the university. Article 105 is a typical example. The government in Article 105 proposes that major universities form deans of the university, directors of the institute and - one regular professor from each university within the university. The Serbian Radical Party proposes with its amendment that major universities make up one university representative as part of the university, in the order of regular professors. What's he doing to a major college dean and a director of the institute? Is this about to be privatized by state universities? Is that what you put your paws on? It is clear that both the dean and the director of the institute are government's people. What the government's people are going to do in a major university, if this government is really pushing for full university autonomy. However, it is obvious that this is a claim. It was supposed to be in the election campaign. It needs to cloud the eyes of the university public now. This government, as before, I must agree, clearly demonstrates the desire to control the university in an indirect manner. With this change, which we propose, we suggest to parliament that we really move towards full autonomy of the university. Furthermore, the government says, in Article 105, that rectors and proctors are members of a larger function. We say the same thing with our amendment: yes, the vice president and the proctor are members of a larger function, but we add that they do not have the right to decide. If we really want the fuller autism of the university, it is obvious that such a solution would make a full contribution to achieving that goal. In the end, the government proposes... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... finishing... ... to be president of the university by office. We suggest that the way the president and members of the university are elected is determined by the university's statutes. I don't suppose there's a more logical solution, if we're really looking for that autonomy. So, I made government proposals and... (President: I warn you of an excessive amount of time. )......................................................................................................... I'm done. (President: you've already said that. )......................................................................................................... I invite you, if you are really seeking full autonomy from the university, to support our proposals, with a view to being watched by the university public and by these boys and girls upstairs from the balcony.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20485	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 49, against 95, the abstentions were not voted 38, out of 182 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 106th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jakov Stamenkovic, Dragisa Popovic and Anita Beretic. The government and the Education Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MPs Golub Rajic and Đura Lazic submitted together to Article 106 of the amendment. The government and the Education Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to Article 106 of the amendment. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does an authorised representative of the motionor want a word? Here's a word from MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20486	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Radical Party, among other things, has submitted an amendment to Article 106, proposing that instead of these 15 provisions and norms provided for in Article 106 be exactly seven. This law, ladies and gentlemen, was not adequately exposed to the scientific and professional public, otherwise it would have been significantly better than proposed. I would especially like to point out that not only the similar laws in the world have been taken into account, but even the same laws in the countries of the European Union. Everything, according to the bill, seems to dissipate the students and shoot them all over their backs. Students at university and university are not a constituent part of these institutions and a significant factor of his activities in the teaching process. That is why the Serbian Radical Party believes students must have greater rights, obligations and responsibilities in this bill, which means students have the right to give an opinion. And what it means is that students have the right to give an opinion - when it doesn't oblige anyone. Student representatives are not included in the higher university and university, and this is evident from the proposed provisions of Articles 105 and 113, although the competences of these bodies are important for the life and work of students and universities, or universities, as provided for in Articles 106 and 114. For the selection of assistants - trainees, from whom all teacher's titles are later realized, it is mandatory to foresee as a condition - the knowledge of at least one world language of importance for the scientific, or artistic field for which it is chosen, as later produced and realized all the titles needed in education and at the university. In addition, one assessment, which should be 9 or 8.5, was to be envisaged, although Article 71 provides that some criteria should be respected. That should be understood as a provision, that it binds someone in college. The curricula and programmes must, according to the Serbian Radical Party, be agreed between the colleges within the scientific and artistic fields, and also should be agreed by textbooks and other lessons from which exams are prepared. At our universities and universities, there is colour and chaos in this regard. The Serbian Radical Party, in addition to the above, believes that mandatory university and university co-operation should be provided for in relation to the drafting of curricula and programmes and the writing of textbooks and other teachings. This would significantly increase the quality of teaching, the speed of study and make it easier for students to take certain items in the same way and on equal terms, regardless of which college they study and whatever textbook they are working on. Some professors from another university do not recognize textbooks and thus deny the elementary rights of our students. This would significantly reduce the cost of study, i.e. the costs incurred by students, which is not irrelevant to both the state and the students. The current state of university shows such drastic differences in plans and programs, especially with regard to textbooks, that an ordinary man is disgusted by these things. This is largely left to individuals or groups in colleges, who gain material benefits and all over the back of students. The obligation to co-operate with universities and universities in that sense would reduce all of this to one measure that would be reasonable, and in line with university autonomy, and students would be greatly helped to learn what is relevant to science and profession and not to learn from many textbooks written on thousands of pages in order to acquire the material benefits of individual professors. Like this, it's higher autonomy, not to say the will and will of individuals or their groups, again to acquire material benefits, but through the back of students. As an example, I would take the Faculty of Law in Belgrade; many of you have studied at that university and laid down finance and financial law. The late Misa Petrovic taught this area and his book was about 300 pages, and today you have a book written by a man in college, a professor, with about 1,000 pages. It's the same situation with the history of state and rights, you have three textbooks. Then, you have Roman law, also more textbooks, 1,000 pages. So not enough attention is taken to content and things that are important to science, students and profession in practice. Today, professors are competing on how and how to make as big a business as possible, to write thousands of pages of textbooks. It is unacceptable and therefore the Serbian Radical Party believes that the university reform of the bill will not be achieved and that this is only one attempt to create an illusion that something is being done in this area, but there is nothing from the reform. So, reform means writing a good law that will apply for a longer period of time, not as Minister Gašo Knezevic told us that this is a temporary law and transition is at stake, so here's what it is. It is unacceptable for the Serbian Radical Party to pass such draft laws for a short time, and you know that the next elections are coming and instead of writing good and long-term laws, we are introducing a practice that any future power that comes must change them, which is absolutely unacceptable from the point of view of the Serbian Radical Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20487	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 48, against 98, the abstentions were not voted 37, a total of 183 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 107th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jakov Stamenkovic, Dragisa Popovic and Anita Beretic. The government and the Education Committee have adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On Article 107 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Vukic. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The applicant for the amendment is not present. National MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group, spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20488	Article 107, or that provision we would like to delete with an amendment, provides that the major university agrees on the college's decision to elect teachers and associates. Of course, the member is more extensive, so it includes what we agree with, and that's the agreement on the proposal for a doctoral dissertation and on a report on the follow-up dissertation. But a question has been asked to the legislator why a major university, made up of deans of the university and directors of the institute and by one regular professor from each university, must verify the decision of an election council, composed of all teachers or associates, if it is about selecting co-workers of the university concerned. Now what is a larger university, based on which a larger university will give consent to the choice of teachers at a particular university? Will the deciding position on this be given by the dean of that university and the professor who is a representative of that university at the university? Is this going to be a way for the university dean to annul the decision of the election council of his university, unless he agreed with it when the teacher was elected, but it was too loud by the electoral council, by all professors? What if the dean at the university council proposes that the council not give consent to the choice of teachers elected by the election council of his university, and the university council annul the election and return the dean to repeat the entire selection procedure. Why is that? It's not just the university's autonomy that's being provided. The autonomy of the university is also provided. Isn't that an election council, made by all the teachers at law school, enough filter to get one associate elected or not? Why should one associate choose even a larger university? Is there not a more serious subject for the wise person’s counsel to decide and to consider? We agree, who wants to keep the university level, if that's a major university, let them decide on the dissertation, on the reports, but don't decide whether it's an electoral higher university (and so you suggest that the choice of teachers and associates be made) should be done accordingly, whether or not the right teacher or co-worker. I could agree with that if the dean chose a teacher, then the major university would decide. It would be an acceptable procedure for me, because the dean could be someone who doesn't agree with the candidate's personality, but if he chooses an election council, and you tried to be there for all those who can decide, why leave it to a larger university now, and I think again the self-willed dean of that university who is a college representative at a major university.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20489	People's MP Bora Stanimirovic, an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group, spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20490	Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment by fellow Nikolic has every reason to be accepted. If it is known that the choice of teachers is being made, how to come to that election, and on the other hand, if you look at the composition of the teaching-science council of the university where both the deans and one teacher of a profession are entering, then it is really too much for the university to decide. What are the reasons? The educational and scientific council determines, i.e. the department of the teaching and scientific council proposes to call a competition for certain subjects, proposes a commission of teaching and scientific higher colleges, selects a professional commission to write a referendum for selecting a specific teacher or assistant, anyway. Then, the people who are the most professional and professional in the area, first of all in the department, decide on the choice, i.e. teaching and scientific major colleges, make a decision on the choice of teachers. What can be said more teachingly-scienceally larger universities, this way, where deans, rectors and proctors who are from various other professions, can measure their choice of teachers. I think it's too much. As far as doctoral dissertation is concerned, it's okay, because it's a scientific degree that is necessary and necessary. That is why I propose that this amendment be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20491	The word has a minister, Mr. Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20492	Mr. Stanimirovic, you forgot that we already adopted Article 87. This is a related member of Article 87. If we adopt this amendment, the university in the Rules of Procedure will again regulate the issue. This is a perfectly normal consequence of the adoption of the previous member.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20493	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) I put the amendments to Article 107 to vote. For 51, against 97, the abstentioned were not voted 37, a total of 185 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 108th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Jovanovic and Djura Lazic. The government and the Education Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The amendment was submitted by MP Velimir Simonovic. The government and the Education Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 108 of the amendment. The Committee on Education has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Members of the 108th amendment were submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20494	I think that we have already explained enough the concept of universities and universities, which we would like to achieve with our amendments, which we will certainly achieve before this law comes into force, because democratic changes in the country will follow much faster than you expect, so that I can thank the legislator that the law will not come into force immediately. That way you won't have to waste paper on the official messenger, which would have been printed that night. It's clear what the authorities in college should be. Not the dean and the college council, but the dean, the board of directors and supervisors. The university council is a working council of the university, strengthened by representatives of the student parliament and strengthened by the founders' representatives. Neither of them are represented so much that their voice matters at all. Neither of them, not even together, would be able to give a majority that would decide in college. So, the college authorities will be 14 college representatives, 12 elected by major colleges and two representatives who choose other employees. That's a 1992 solution that's already been seen. You had a terrible attack on him while you were in the opposition, and you were giving examples of what would happen at the university being decided by employees with a lower level of expertise, because two of them should be. Two representatives of the university's student parliament and six representatives of the founders were now inserted. You're here to say that the term of office of members of the college council is two years. I think these representatives, given by the student parliament, have a term of office for a year and that should have been separated. The university has to operate in accordance with the laws. You must know who decides and who answers. There's no collective college management. Not even a farmer's cooperative can be collectively managed, let alone one college. There must be a head, a responsible man, one who will assume both rights and responsibilities, one who will represent the university in public. Why is it that when we read the history of our Belgrade University or our university, we always read who the dean was in that period; because the university dean is the one by which the university is recognized, and the university dean is the one by which the university is recognised; it represents, symbolises that college. Now you're inserting a body collected in the way you predicted, it'll certainly be chosen that way, and then it'll look like a system of governance that's completely failed in this country. In the economy, it was tried in such a way as to rule, so our economy went completely offside, until someone realized that one man's authority to care, to answer, to manage. That's how it's supposed to be here. If we fund college, we set up a board of directors at that university, and the board of directors suggest that the college develop, in which direction, the dean be there, to be the director of that college. Why are you ashamed to say that, is that an ugly word? If she's ugly, why didn't you tell the college manager? That's the word you love so much, it changes the word I use very gladly. Why not the director? We're trying to get out of college self-management, not college autonomy, the one that has to be provided to the university. But you have to get yourself out of society. To get out of society, he has to get out of his brain. If your old staff can't do that, find younger personnel who aren't self-managed, so let them write a bill on the university, which will be acceptable enough for both the government and the opposition.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20495	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 55, against 98, the abstentions were not voted 28, a total of 181 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 109th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Dragan Colic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20496	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Member of 109th is changing and it says, "The Dean is an executive body of the university. The dean has the rights and responsibilities of the director of the company, if this law is not different. The university has one or more students according to the statutes of the university. The university also has a student proceded. "The concept of the university is to be implemented until the end. This law did not clearly define the rights, duties and obligations of the dean, which is essentially the director of the company. The labour law speaks and regulates the above-mentioned obligations of the managing authority, which is also the dean in a specific case. The DOS government obviously does not apply the provisions of the Law of Labour, and it can be interpreted as the highest legislative body as the executive authority, the Minister of Sports and Education, Gašo Knezevic. He, like Ceda Jovanovic, when in college with the law, finds a solution and applies himself. The SRS parliamentary group wants to fix this law with this amendment, although it is very difficult, and that the dean is owned by a company director, because in fact the university and university are enterprises formed by the founder. The legislator sees the concept of this proposal as the 1992 Joint Labour Act, at the same time talking about reforms, and prescribes an existing law from the past. I feel a great nostalgia for self-management, for some of the past. The proposed law on university will not make students any better, except for an empty theory and a dream about some autonomy of universities and colleges. Minister Gašo Knezevic seems powerless in an attempt to show the grandmother through bleach a younger one. It's time to get off the DOS's lie shop and get off the truth firm and get the university what it belongs to.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20497	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) I am putting the amendment to article 109 on the vote. For 47, against 98, the abstentions, did not vote 33, out of 178 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. People's MPs Bora Stanimirovic and Zivodarka Dacin submitted together, and then withdrew from the amendment procedure to Article 109. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 110 of the amendment. The Committee on Education has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MPs Nenad Lemajic, Milan Radulovic, Bojana Aleksic, Dragoljub Vojnović and Vladimir Andric together submitted the 110th amendment. The government and the Education Committee did not accept this amendment, with the Committee on Education finding that the amendment was essentially the same as the previous amendment of the Government, which became an integral part of the draft law. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) Here you are, the word has a folk MP Bojana Alexic; an amendment to Article 110, an explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20498	This is obviously a mistake because the DSS amendment is not similar to the government amendment, or legal solution that has been offered. In fact, a member of 110 refers to the selection of the dean of the university. Under the bill of law the government gave us, it's the college's council that chooses the dean. The college council consists of 14 college representatives, 12 of whom elects a larger and two-per-selection of employees; two representatives of the student parliament, although the Educational Committee has adopted an amendment by which the student parliament will have four representatives; and six representatives of the founders, as he has given in the original bill proposal, but the Education Committee has also adopted an amendment to which there will be four representatives of the founders. However, we at the DSS believe that this is not enough if we are in favour of the essential autonomy of the university, for which we all together as DOS in a pre-election campaign have asked so much to return. In our opinion, the only holders of the essential autonomy of the university are professors, and that means academically greater. That's why we think it's only logical that the teaching - the scientific council elects the dean of colleges. When it comes to the rector, you could have noticed in Article 102, we have not made an amendment and there is no analogy between the rector's election and the dean's election, because the rector is at the head of the university and it is logical that both the founder's representative, or the government, or the state, as someone who gives money, has at least some minimum control. That's why we agreed that the university's advice is to choose a rector. When it comes to the dean and when it comes to the facts, it's something where you still have to give full freedom to the teacher - the scientific council and the colleges, because first of all, it's about the teaching - the scientific process. Since I am aware that the minister himself had a dilemma about this amendment, I call on all those who really advocate the essential autonomy of the university, and so much has been discussed in the election campaign, to fulfill at least one of their pre-election promises.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20499	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? Yeah. ) The word has Minister Gašo Knezevic and MP Dejan Mihajlov as chairman of the DSS group's MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20500	First, one explanation. You, Madam Chairman, have read what has been read since the DSS amendment consists of two parts, and in one it is identical with the government's adopted proposal, so it is a mistake in typing the material that is in your possession. Twice, yeah. The second question is, who's actually choosing the Dean, does that make it bigger or better? The DSS takes the view that the choice must also be completed within the framework of the collective, i.e. it does not go before other bodies, however they were drawn up, if they are something above the collective itself, or above the electoral council. Although the dilemma certainly exists, the opinion of the promoter is that in a certain way we still separate these two functions and give the opportunity to give the council a statement on the person of the dean, even if the composition of the council in the good part coincided with the composition of the electoral council, and the electoral council has the absolute authority, because it proposes the candidate to the council. The council can go beyond the election council's proposal. If the election council has more than one, then the question could possibly be raised that the council decides, but if the election council has only one, then the council is bound by the election council's decision. So we're staying at a negative stance on the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20501	In the words of MP Dejan Mihajlov, president of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20502	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, may be this solution at this point too reformal, so it cannot be accepted, because it is heading towards the fundamental autonomy of the university in this case, where the Dean would be elected exclusively by professors, because he needs to organise the teaching process in the best way possible and even organise life in the university. I don't see why there's a resistance for teachers to be the ones to choose one of their colleagues to be a dean. Why it takes someone on the side to interfere again. There is a good part of those who are not members and are not teachers in the council of the university. This relationship is about 14:10 and there is simply the possibility that sometimes what is the will of the professor and what is the will of the university is not fully respected. That's why we think they should, as far as this solution is concerned, which may seem dangerous to some at this point, to those who want to keep control of the dean's election, simply accept the DSS amendment and thus show their true intention, their true willful college becomes an oasis where the state will have no influence, neither on the choice of professors nor on the choice of one who will edit that work. Simply, by giving our contribution to establishing full autonomy, and if not in the choice of rectors, where the university council is going to do so, and what is good, then at least the deans are chosen by single professors, that in this way teachers are more satisfied with the choices that they themselves bear responsibility for the dean whom they choose, not that they are constantly told that they were forced to do so and they were not for it, but to take responsibility. Well, simply, that they choose someone, the first among the equals, who will be the college dean.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20503	The People's Messenger Tomislav Nikolic has the word, and the People's Messenger Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20504	The SRS parliamentary group will not vote in favour of this amendment because our concept of the dean's election is completely different. A member group who participates only so much in working on the bill to explain its amendments and vote exclusively for them, I would advise them to read the other amendments as well. Just five minutes ago, on our amendment not to go outside of college to pick out college teachers, they voted against it. Now they're asking the dean's choice not to go outside the university. There must be a principle. It's not the principle of who submitted the amendment, it's the principle of what the amendment looks like. It's not a principle, we'll vote for the law if you accept our amendments, but it's a principle we'll vote for a law that's good.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20505	The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20506	Mrs. Komic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think we have a duty to explain, as Parliament's majority, the denial of support for this amendment. The autonomy of the university is mentioned and the conclusion that such a legal proposal would put the university's autonomy at risk in the part where it actually works most specifically, in the dean's election process. Under the bill of law, the dean chooses the council of the university, but, on a more exclusive proposal of the teaching - scientific council. So, not on the proposal of any other institution or individual outside of that university, but on the sole proposal of a teaching and scientific council, which consists of teachers and co-workers of the university. Therefore, the protection component has been prevented from jeopardising the process, the appointment, or running for the dean. As for the dean's election, if we adopted this amendment, we would inaugurate "autonomy" in one part, in the part where it concerns the sovereignty of the teaching-science council. What happens to students, does the autonomy of the university entail the autonomy of professors and take away the right and freedom of students? The university council consists of 14 representatives of the university, four representatives of the students and four representatives of the founders or government, who must not be government officials, but people the government will appoint. That's 14-8 ratio. In no way is a secret vote, it cannot be threatened by the autonomy of the university if the election of the dean rises to the level of the university council and thus enables the active role of students and not control, but also the active role of those persons who will appear in the university's council as representatives of the university. I think we must take care of both the amendments and the laws in principle, which we have already adopted. This would question something like that. Finally, as far as reform is concerned, I agree that we can argue about all this, but more than reform is zero. You can be for reform or against reform, but what's more than reform is something that actually doesn't exist right now and has nothing to do with this. So, I ask you to carefully read this article of the law and see the amendments we have adopted so far, to consider the law we adopted in principle and to realize that this would raise the question of the role of students in the dean's election process, in order to bring into question the role of founders and that we would not affirm the autonomy of the university, because clearly the candidate for the dean proposes exclusively the professional body of the university, therefore teachingly and scientifically greater. At the same time, the representatives of the university have a full majority in the college council and the fact that the election of the dean is carried out through the process of secret voting is respected are all criteria which are the prerequisite for autonomy.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20507	National MP Dejan Mihajlov, a replica of the presentation of MP Tomislav Nikolic, recognition. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20508	First of all, we've been distracted by some inconsistencies. There are completely different things, Mr. Nikolic. First of all, the teacher's choice is part of it, and this is part of the selection of the university's managing body. The choice of professors confirms the most professional part of the university that popularly calls the Senate, and this is the governing body and these are different things; let's not mix the profession or the choice of professors with the way the bodies run the university. As for those proposed by the government, who will choose the Dean and everything else, it will be professional people. Here, I'll read you some names that are now members of the council of some universities and the University of Belgrade, and you'll see that these are not people who are professional in this job, but are simply political. Here, at the Belgrade University Management Board, Savicevic, who is the president of the "Genex Group"; then Milutin Popivoda, director of Autotrend in Zemun. So these are people who aren't really professional in these jobs, and there's a lot of advice about them. There will be again people who are not professional and who can politically influence the choice of the dean. That's why our intention went in the direction that teachers choose their own dean and that's why they decide how to manage the university, not that someone from the government or someone else puts these people in political likeness that will affect the choice of the dean.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20509	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? Yes, MP Bora Stanimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20510	The SPS MPs will support this bill, not the amendment, because there are more reasons for that. We just heard about it, and first of all when it comes to the dean, it can be in other conditions, at some other time, when we pass some other laws, when we have, like, a college director as a manager, etc., where the dean will be just a professional person. If it is known that, in addition to teachers, besides university workers, students enter, the amendment eliminates workers and students, and only allows teachers to choose the dean, because the director in this relationship is still the director of the university. So he's for all the employees. It is one of the main arguments that requires support for this position proposed by the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20511	The word has the Minister of Government, Mr. Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20512	At first, I wanted to tell the truth for one fact: Mr. Mihajlov is right when he says that Miki Savicevic is a member - he is. The government didn't set him up, the university chose him, that's a big difference. The government didn't impose anyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20513	People's sender Dejan Mihajlov, the basis for the replica? I'm mentioned. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20514	Okay. There are cases like this. Here, let's say Mr. Labus is a member of the Medical Faculty Management Board. We simply want to avoid the influence of politics and all those who are close to politics in choosing the dean in college, and that is our only intention. Whether or not they're going to be proposed by someone else, let politics be avoided. I guess that's something that leads us to a more autistic universities.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20515	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 61, against 97, a abstentioned one, did not vote 27, out of 186 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 110th Amendment were submitted by MP Predrag Canovic. The government and the Education Committee did not accept this amendment, with the fact that, as in the previous case, the Committee on Education found that the amendment, in its essence, was identical with the amendment of the Government, which became an integral part of the bill. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? The word has a National MP, Predrag Canovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20516	Dear People's MPs, Article 110. The bill of law on the university speaks of who proposes and who chooses and solves the deans of the university. It is explicitly said that the dean is proposing a larger college, and he chooses and resolves the council of the university. We, as a member of the SS, have nothing against it, however, we propose that in our amendment that in this article, after Article 3, point 4, which reads: "For the dean of the university, the same person can be elected in two consecutive terms at most." In fact, we believe that most of the colleges have enough professional staff, which could function as dean, so it is not necessary for the same person to function as dean in more than two terms consecutively. In the end, I would just say that when the Government adopts an amendment in full or in part through its amendment, this should nevertheless be stated in an explanation, not that it represents it exclusively as its amendment. This happened to the Soviet Parliament group when it came to amendment to Article 39, here and now to Article 110. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20517	It is my duty, under Article 84(2), to remind the MPs that we have adopted the amendment to Article 110, which reads: "The same person may be elected as the dean, that is to say, twice at the most". Is there anyone else answering for the amendment of MP Predrag Canovic? No, I don't. ) If not, I am putting the amendment to the vote and asking the MPs to plead. For 43, against 99, the abstentions were not voted 28 out of 170 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Parliamentarian Goran Cvetanovic submitted to the 110th amendment. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? The word is made by MP Goran Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20518	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Radical Party has submitted an amendment to Article 110, where absolutely all three positions differ from the member of the 110th proposed law. In the first position of the dean of the university chooses and resolves the advice of the university. The amendment to the SRS has changed, and it reads: "The university dean appoints and resolves the founder for a period of two years from the university professor's order. "What really matters is exactly the role of founder. If the bill provides advice to the founders, one quarter of the total number of representatives of the university and the institute, means about 25%, there is really no basis, no argument of the members, that the founder, who invests large material assets and hires prominent experts to teach at any private university, cannot also decide to appoint a dean. This is really inappropriate, and we think it is important to change the founder, because the SRS is now seeking to implement the concept by communiversity run by the founder. In the position of the 2nd candidate for the dean, it proposes a larger college -- it has been changed that the university dean should take office on the basis of the appointing act. In the position of Article 110, as stated in the Bill's proposal, the candidate for the dean proposes candidates for the lectured, from the order of teachers of the university, and the amendment of the SRS has changed that the dean chooses the procreation of teachers of the university, according to the procedure prescribed by the statute of the university, for a period of two years. It is precisely that the founder is fully respected and respected, and it is simply amazing that the bill makes the founder completely different views. That's why the question arises - which is why the university, or the university whose founder is the Republic, is independent of both the Minister of Education and the university, whose founder is a legal or physical person, is not? Therefore, the SRS raises the question - whether freedom of scientific, or artistic and educational work, creation and autonomy in the performance of universities and their members is guaranteed by Article 4. A bill if it depends on the statutes of founders? The government's reason for not accepting the amendments is really very specific because, starting from the amendment to Article 100 (Mr Ljubomir Kragovic submitted the amendment), to Article 110, the reasons are exactly the same. Even when it comes to private universities, the government explains that it does not accept that the same statutes have state and private universities, because private universities do not have a long enough tradition with us. For example, the Karic University has been operating on our premises for ten years now, so I don't know what time period is adequate so that certain universities can be recognized when their diplomas without no nostrification can be recognized at other universities, or in other countries? There I need to be a minister to answer that question - what is the time period; because it is obvious for the minister to adapt to the transition from the German mark to 20,000 euros is no problem, so it is also adapted in a few weeks. The Serbian Radical Party will because of these arguments and it has many reasons to complete the proposal to vote for non-trust to the minister of education and sports, Gaš Knezevic, since 30 May 2001. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20519	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I am putting the amendment to the vote and asking the MPs to plead. For 40, against 98, the abstentions did not vote 34, out of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Bratoljub Janackovic withdrew his amendment to article 110 from the procedure, so he stops being the subject of the debate. Members of the 110th Amendment were submitted by MPs Toma Busetic, Zarko Obradovic, Branko Ružic, Slobodan Tomovic and Milan Stankovic. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There's a word from the People's Messenger Tom Bushetic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20520	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a group of SPS MPs has proposed to amend this member, which reads: "The college dean elects and resolves the council of colleges. The candidates for the dean are proposing a larger college." It is a dispute that "the candidate for the dean proposes candidates for the sold out of the university's teacher's order". We think the dean should propose candidates for the prodigals. It's an hour ago story about rectors, the rectors' choice, and the dean's choice doesn't need to be tied to this way. What happens if the college council chooses a prodigal without choosing a dean, and the new candidate for the dean proposes another candidate for the prodecane, and so all "Joo again". You know, college council's gonna get somebody to like running for the dean, and they're not gonna run for high school, and vice versa. I wouldn't talk about this, because you just turned down our proposal, but one of the promoters said, half an hour ago, that good candidates for the vice president or good candidates for the pronouncing major recommendation for the rector's election, or the dean. You know, this turns out to be either proctors or procedures, that these functions are more important than dean functions or rectors, which is not true. Simply, the candidate for the dean should have, first of all, the best program and the most professional and human quality, not just a good team; in terms of a good team from earlier, when it comes to rectors, and now it's about the prodecans. I think you should think about this, although it's obvious that you won't do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20521	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? Here's a word from MP Bora Stanimirovic, representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20522	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the problem is just like the rector's, only now the situation is a little closer to the solution we're practically offering. In fact, if we already want to make something better, something more modern, then the dean is the one that could have been proposed in law, although we don't have such an amendment, which chooses its team, as is the case in companies, as it is everywhere. If the collective has confidence in the dean, then he will certainly have the right to choose his team, because in the election by the council he proposes a programme based on which the teaching-science council of the university makes the choice of the dean. If that's the case, then the right solution is that the dean has the right to choose a team to work with.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20523	Since no one's answering for a word anymore, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 47, against 92, a abstentioned one, was not voted 30, out of 170 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. We have suggestions to add a new member. National MP Veroljub Arsic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new article 110a be added after article 110a. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does an authorised representative of the motionor want a word? Here's a word from MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20524	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the Serbian Radical Party has tabled an amendment proposing that a member of 110a be added after article 110a, which reads: "The dean relieved of duties is deployed to the jobs of teachers in the calling in which he was elected at the university". The wish of the SRS was that one, essentially, very bad bill, at least in that technical sense, dotted to look like the law. The government rejected this amendment, with a bit of a strange explanation -- from Article 109 of this same bill, paragraph 3 reads: "The choice of dean is done without competition, and for two years, from the order of professors who are in full-time employment at the university". That's why he's a new member that I suggested unnecessary, because that's understood. Now I don't know what that means. Will the dean still be a dean or will he be a professor? Or, if the question is asked - what if the current professor, and the new dean teaches some more serious and difficult subject, for which it takes more hours of teaching, will he be able to perform the quality duty of the dean; or vice versa, will he be able to perform a quality professor's duty; will he be obliged to teach or not? None of this is subject to this law and nothing is binding. The question arises: who will suffer - is college or students? When Mr. Gašo Knezevic uses this term - it is understood, I have the least confidence in him that at all, whatever he writes, and it is not written in the law, I can accept as a fact; especially since he became a minister, he has used double standards in his work, so that it can be understood if the dean is in his will or does not have to be understood if it is not, because in law, Mr. Minister, it does not. It is also understood, Mr. Minister, that one day you can resign, so it is understood, in the domain of theory, that a worse minister can come to your place, so he will not mean what you mean. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20525	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 42, against 96, the abstentions were not voted 32, out of 170 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Stjevan Kesejic tabled an amendment proposing that a new article 110b be added after article 110b. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does an authorised representative of the motionor want a word? Here's a word from MP Stevan Kesejić.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20526	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment I filed on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group concerns the powers of the dean at the university. In fact, the law itself is completely confusing. He is, in fact, an attempt to reform the university and, under the pretext of the university's autonomy, trying to introduce self-government on a small door. So, one past-time nostalgia. And we're not surprised at all, because when we see who the promoters are, they're actually recycled communists, who want to do what many have failed to do by 2002. According to this concept proposed by the government, no responsibility, no authority of individuals. In fact, he wants to introduce some collective responsibility, no one's -- everyone's -- and that's how he wants to try to avoid responsibility when the Dossovites teach power. So, the government will try to overturn the blame on this or that advice, etc. That is why SRS MPs insist on both personal powers and personal responsibilities, so that the reform would indeed be the right, because you promised in the election campaign. This law, in fact, and that applies to this amendment of mine, is like a "gemist", or a syringe, as we say, is neither wine nor water, nor does anyone really know who drinks or pays. Maybe Sports Minister Gašo Knezevic knows who drinks, but the people don't know who gets paid. Therefore, the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group proposes that this amendment clearly specify the powers of the dean, so that the dean proposes the statute of the university, is responsible for achieving educational artistic and scientific action, proposes the basics of business policy at the university, implements decisions of the board of directors, submits annual reports, initiates initiatives, etc. So this particular amendment would bring things into place and clearly specify the powers of the dean at the university. In this way, as the proposer in article 110 does not talk about the concrete powers of the deans, he is trying to avoid calling all those participants at universities and universities who are responsible and who should in some way have their powers in the management of the institutions where they are employed. That is why I propose to DOS MPs to accept this amendment that I have proposed, of course without Milka, because she can't accept anything but one thing, and thus fix this law as much as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20527	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 43, against 84, the abstentioned were not voted 47, a total of 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 111 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Christodulo. The Government and the Education Committee have adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, and I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The amendment was submitted to Article 111 by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20528	The Serbian Radical Party's insistence to make its amendments clear and in some way correct everything that is not sufficiently precise in this law is obviously in most part without success, for the simple reason that it is the will of the majority that this law is not only a law of transition to a temporary period of time or reform law, which is being disputed by the DOS's majority rather than being a law of continuity. This is, gentlemen, no matter how much you avoid it or how much you don't emphasize that fact, the law of the continuity of political and any other similarity of this authority to that authority that passed the laws in which self-government was the basis. In fact, all that is undefined and not clear enough in this law will cause problems in the future. So is Article 111, which should define what is the role, and how the university council is chosen. We suggest that the role of the one who will manage the university is clearly defined in this law by that role and the way of choice. The government suggests that the council be an authority to manage the university, we Serbian radicals suggest that it be clear, crystal clear, that it be the board of directors, who will do this job. We propose to change this in a certain way, for the simple reason that the proposer himself says he will be in the council of the college of 14 members: and of that 12 members of the council will choose larger colleges; two members are from the ranks of employees; we now hear that, after the amendments are adopted, four representatives of the student parliament; and four representatives of the Government, founders. That sums up to 22 and that's an even number. The basic rule when adopting and constructing each organ is to respect incomparability. What if it's 11-11? If you wanted to raise students so much, you should have given them five members or anyone to increase the number of members to be an odd number. Secondly, in this way and in this way, neither rights nor obligations are defined, both founders and employees. Look, gentlemen, you claim from this pay phone, from the Minister's mouth, that this law will last until 2010 as a transitional law. The people won't let you be that much, but what you're going to say - gentlemen, when you meet your obligations as founder, and in this case, the government, are you going to tell college employees - relatively by participating in the decision-making process we'll fund so much of you. Then will you say proportionally to the government's representative's participation as founder and the money you'll get, and the rest up to 100%, gentlemen, as much as you decide and provide the funds. To go out with a claim - while the prime minister, or in that style, will not be so; it is too unserious. Know, gentlemen, that there will soon be changes in Serbia, no matter how much you resisted there will be no choice, the people will force you to do so and you are guilty of it. Gentlemen, you are equating in this, and in other members of rights and obligations, private and state colleges. You say, if the Republic is the founder, then it delegates the government of four members to the council. Where's your private colleges? Is the private gonna fund colleges, and you're gonna impose this law on him who's gonna make decisions at that college, who's gonna decide? Where is it, gentlemen? Where'd you meet that? Where were you in that West, when you went to take money and perfect yourself professionally, to meet a country that was the founding father of the university to leave it to someone else? Where there is such an example, give any example, including from these transition countries, which you always take as a bright example.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20529	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 45, against 94, the abstentioned were not voted 37, a total of 176 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I ask the MPs, whether they are representatives or presidents, if they have any objection to the order of amendments to vote for a pay phone and say so.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20530	Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment to Article 110 has been skipped. It was submitted by the professor. Bora Stanimirović and Mr Živodarka Dacin. So, we were just discussing this member, when we discussed the rector's election, but it must be voted.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20531	Amendment applicants to Article 110 are the following: the Government of the Republic of Serbia; joint MPs Nenad Lemajic, Milan Radulovic, Bojana Aleksic, Dragoljub Vojnović and Vladimir Andric; National MP Predrag Canovic; MP Goran Cvetanović; MP Bratoljub Janacković, who withdrew the amendment from the procedure; MPs Toma Busetic, Zarko Obradović, Branko Ružic, Slobodan Tomović and Milan Stankovic. After that, article 110 was the subject of a proposal from MP Veroljub Arsic, who had a proposal to add a new member. It's what I have as amendments that are in the process. (Natasa Jovanovic: I Stevan Kesejic.) ) And MP Stevan Kesejić. I said, no matter what you violate the Rules of Procedure and you throw it out of the bench, you have amendments to Article 110, and then amendment applicants who are proposing to add new members behind Article 110, which is not an amendment to Article 110, which the MPs should know. The word is made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20532	Just so there is no confusion: the SPS parliamentary group has submitted two amendments to Article 110. Both amendments have entered the procedure. They should have been stopped at the office by an officer who is reviewing the amendments, who according to the Rules of Procedure is obliged to warn the promoter that the amendment cannot be in the procedure because the parliamentary group has already filed one. You missed it. The amendments went to the government of the Republic of Serbia. The government of the Republic of Serbia has declared itself on both amendments. If so, you should have said at least one sentence today - to a member of the 110th parliamentary group of the SPS has submitted another amendment, which cannot be the subject of a decision at this session because the parliamentary group, according to one of the rules of procedure you adopted, can only submit one amendment to one member.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20533	In part of the reminder, MP Tomislav Nikolic is right. One parliamentary group cannot put two amendments on the same page. As chairman, I'd give information if the information had come to me. Thus, the submission of amendments by the parliamentary group should not first take place in the parliamentary group, and then it should not happen in the Service of the Assembly, and should not happen at the session itself. These two violations have been committed. MP Tomislav Nikolic is right, but a third offence has been avoided. The information I received from the Service concerns Articles 14 and 69, paragraphs 3, does not apply to Article 110. Please note that the path of these amendments has been such and I ask all parliamentary groups to respect the Rules of Procedure and to submit amendments in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Members of the 112s were jointly submitted by MPs Toma Busetic, Zarko Obradovic, Branko Ružić, Slobodan Tomovic and Milan Stankovic. The government and the Education Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The amendment was submitted by MP Predrag Canovic to Article 112. The government and the Education Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On Article 112, the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Vucurovic. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The applicant for the amendment is not in the O.R. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 31, against 90, the abstentions were not voted 54, out of 175 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 112s were jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Lemajic, Milan Radulovic, Bojana Aleksic, Dragoljub Vojinović and Vladimir Andric. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Milan Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20534	Dear MPs, as you have seen, Article 112 determines the responsibility of the university council, which, among other things, under point 6, "picks and relieves the dean and the taught college". We suggested that this point be deleted for one simple reason. The DSS also clearly highlighted its basic principle in the principle debate and in the amendments: the basic principle in the regulation of the university is autonomy. In our understanding of university autonomy, first of all, the relationship between administrative and professional bodies at the university is seen. We believe that the university's professional authorities should have the highest authority and be slightly above the administrative authority in the hierarchical scale. The Dean has an undefined status. He is also the head of the university and president of the council, i.e. the president of the expert body. However, the principle that an expert body is most important in the university will be expressed as well as in administrative authorities -- and thus it will be in the next law -- there will be no one but people from the university. No one can delegate their representatives to manage the university if we consistently respect the principle of autonomy. Mr Nikolic had one dilemma there -- as we suggested that the choice of professors would be confirmed by the Senate, or the larger university. It's a simple solution. The major university, or Senate, is the highest body at the university; it is made only by regular professors, and it must have the main powers in the profession. Everyone has to pass that filter representing the Senate of the university. The bigger college is a slightly lower organ because it's made by all teachers. However, the larger university has the right to choose its own dean. There's no reason for the Dean to choose advice. The council has its responsibilities. It's more normal for a bigger one to choose a dean. By the way, at this point, there were clearly two concepts about what the autonomy of the university is, but it seems to me, two political orientations. The government's majority -- which supports the government unreservedly, even when the government, and it does so increasingly, recycles and restores communist and non-communist laws -- understands the autonomy of the university in one way, and the DSS and the autonomy of universities and reforms understands it in one way, I would say, the original vision. In fact, we don't think the old laws can be recycled. Mr. Representative of the DOS Group reads us a lesson that if the council chooses the dean, then the student parliament will not be able to participate in the work. We don't tend to engage in demagogy and court students. We said in the principle debate that it was the right of students to have university courses. It is the right for students to have the freedom of research; it is the right for students to have one-semed subjects; it is the right for students to have more exam deadlines; it is the right for students to guarantee that the curricula and titles acquired at the university in Serbia are identical with the titles at any European university. It's the right of students -- instead of getting three questions on the exam, (so they know, they don't) -- to be scored and the points they've collected over the course of one year are valid at the University of Thessaloniki, Budapest, London, Nis and Sarajevo. They're real student rights. That's what we stand for. What good do students benefit from participating in the dean's election? Why should students be concerned and what is their essential interest in who the dean is? Their essential interests are these issues that I have listed in advance, not to choose the dean; in doing so, they do not even have the power to have a fundamental impact on the choice. Therefore, it is necessary to distinguish the real interests of a student from what is demagogy, which is to leverage students and forge their authentic interests. The authentic student interest is that he has the freedom to explore and that the university guarantees him and organises such a teaching that he will be able to effectively, constructively, creatively use it, so that he would eventually finish his studies and know where he is and why he studied.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20535	On the basis of Article 84. Rules of Procedure, paragraph 2, because of the notes in the stenogram, after the information collected, I give an explanation for the earlier remarks submitted by the SPS MP, Mr Bora Stanimirovic. National MP Bora Stanimirovic signed the amendment to be submitted to Article 110, along with his MP, Živodarka Dacin. The proposal for a university law refers to a member of 109 and as such entered into the procedure. So there was no mistake in either government or the Assembly. After that, the MP withdrew the amendment. I would ask the MPs to fulfill all their rights and obligations and then address the National Assembly with a grudge. Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote and I am asking the Members of Parliament to make a statement.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20536	For 56, against 81, the abstentions were not voted 40, out of 177 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 112, MP Bratoljub Janackovic tabled the amendment and withdrew during today's debate. National MP Vitomir Plužarevic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 112a be added after article 112a. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does MP Vitomir Plužarevic want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20537	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we Serbian radicals have submitted an amendment to Article 112 in order to reduce the self-government flows of this law that are evident throughout the law. This amendment applies to chapter VI, which is regulated by the governing bodies and professional bodies, including the university council, where we propose an additional amendment to 112a, which reads: "The Board of Supervisors of the Faculty has five members and appoints and resolves the founder. Two members of the Supervisory Board referred to in Article 1(1) shall be appointed from the Staff Regulations of the College. The term of office of members of the Supervisory Board referred to in Article 1 shall be five years, starting from the date of the constitution." The basis of this law is a 1992 model; this base suggests that we are going back to the self-government flows you have condemned and that you have repeatedly mentioned that they are not in line with this famous Europe. Europe has lost sight of self-government flows. Europe respects only profits and ways to make it as easy as possible, so that Europe will not accept this self-government law on the university. Why should you choose the dean on a self-rule basis? There's a reference to getting the university's autonomy back, and that's not true. How does that autonomy work when universities are still tightly tied to the state? The university law is according to Mr. Gaš Knezevic, a transition character. Where are your experts with this law now? They're nowhere to be found. Apparently there's no policy in this law, and it's all covered with DOS threads that are very thin. This law is in a series of passed laws of short character and will not endure its imaginary path. Why is Mr. Gaš Knezevic so bitter in the 1998 law? There is not so much bitterness in it that the minister must first take the sugar, then something else, to ease the bitter taste of the law. How could this authority not propose a good law that would not change for a longer period of time, but had taken over the provisions of the 1992 law? I'm inclined to believe that this law was done by diletaries, not by experts and experts, because there are no such ones in the DOS. What kind of capture do you represent with Europe when you regulate it and retroactivity? This law has not been passed by the rectors or the deans or the students. Why didn't they accept it? This is seen from all these discussions that have been going on for several days and are seen from a large number of amendments submitted by both students and deans. Even the government itself is not satisfied with this proposal, since it has constantly heated this law and has been correcting it more quickly - better for some of its amendments. Serbian radicals will not accept this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20538	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 47, against 95 abstentions, he did not vote 31 out of 173 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Slobodan Janjic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 112b be added after article 112. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20539	I didn't hear you say the government accepted it, so it's part of the law or should I explain it?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20540	Please explain your amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20541	I have proposed Article 112b, which reads: "The Supervisory Board of the Faculty: 1) is overseeing the legality of the work of the university's body; 2) is overseeing the operation of the university; 3) is also performing other tasks established by law. "The concept of the SRS is that the authorities of the university are dean, board of directors and supervisory board. This amendment shall specify the powers of the Supervisory Board. If the state finances the work of the university, if in fact it is financed by citizens from taxes, taxis, customs etc., they transferred their right of management to a government that only distributes such funds. The Assembly, or Members of Parliament, by adopting the budget, shall decide on how much funds they will define for those purposes. It is also logical for the Government to exercise management rights and supervision of the lawfulness of the university's rads through the Management Board of the Supervisory Board. You, however, are returning to university self-government, although it is essentially privatising colleges through a particular clan of university council members. The university as an educational institution cannot be left to itself, since it is of national interest, especially if people as minister, Mr. Gašo Knezevic, who have a crisis of national identity to moments alone are elected in these councils. I don't know if you colleges exist because of students or students and colleges so that deans and rectors can receive salaries. What happened yesterday seems to be happening again today. A Ustasha bastard visited Belgrade yesterday afternoon to make sure that this country was still...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20542	Mr. Janjic, I warn you to return to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20543	This is a topic, and it's about students and our children, and it could have come to bloodshed yesterday, and it has to stop it. That bastard also attended the DOS presidency...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20544	Mr. Janjic, since you do not follow my warning, I give you my first warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20545	Mrs. Natasha, I'm telling you that there is a Constitution here, there is a parliamentary ID here, and it says beautifully that an MP for his expressed opinion cannot be punished. That's what it says on the first page of this ID that you have, and you stick to the Constitution and that.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20546	Of course.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20547	It was advertised on all TV stations that a group of young people from Novi Sad came to beautiful the posters of Serbian hero and patriot Radovan Karadzic...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20548	Mr. Janjic, you're not sticking to the agenda again, and I'm warning you again.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20549	It's all advertised by television to challenge the conflict of young people from Belgrade...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20550	I give you a second warning, based on the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20551	If it was organized by the government, it's clear to everyone, because the media advertised it five hours earlier, i.e. Before the posters start beautiful, expecting a conflict.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20552	Mr. Janjic, I take your word. Please leave the pay phone. Does any of the other authorised participants in the debate apply for the word (Yes)? Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20553	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't know why Mrs. Micic is so disturbed by the MP of the SRS...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20554	Mr Nikolic, please, you have received the word as deputy president of the parliamentary group to explain the amendment submitted by MP Slobodan Janjic and please adhere to some of the rules of conduct contained in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20555	Do you think it's just me now that you deserve to speak to me, not an ambassador who throws out of the O.R.?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20556	And you don't throw?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20557	Now? Well, here I am at the pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20558	When you sit there you and your MPs don't throw away?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20559	I throw as much as I can.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20560	You're throwing, I see, right now, here's pure evidence, here's a look at MP Slobodan Janjic, who's usually taken from the word, continues to throw. Which could go a long way.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20561	I just want to know why you are so bothered by the defence of Radovan Karadzic, who is trying to....
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20562	You know what, I'm not going to debate here at all with you on issues that aren't on the agenda, and neither do you have the right to promote some of your views here on other topics.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20563	.... an attempt to prevent conflict on the Belgrade streets between those who make one cry and those who stick to the other.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20564	Mr. Nikolic, you have two warnings and you know that the next take is words.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20565	Just don't scare me, don't scare me, at least in this room no one can scare me, please. I went out to protect the people's MP's group that I belong to; if you had the same arches to all, I would never go out. You are the only messengers of the SRS to warn and prevent them from speaking in the way they want to speak. Remember, in this assembly, the MP has the right to speak in the way he wants to speak. He thus depicts himself, his MP group, and part of the citizens who elected him and wanted him to be in this National Assembly. This isn't where we're being raised. This is where we express our views.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20566	I agree, Mr. Nikolic, you've been given the current word to talk about the amendment, please move on to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20567	Please don't throw it at me while I'm at the pay phone. You're advocating the autonomy of college and university. That's what we want to help you with. We advocate the autonomy of the People's Messenger, the one whom the people have chosen, the one little thing we advocate, the five minutes of speaking behind this payphone, that no one interferes with him, let him say whatever he wants.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20568	He can't, he's not in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20569	No matter what he says, he's a people's messenger, people. It can be said in dictatorship, it can be said elsewhere. You can't tell the MP in this assembly -- you can't talk about the agenda point the way you want to. That can't be told to the MP, because he's a representative of the people, because it's the people here. You let go of that Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure say the parliamentary group is submitting amendments. Ask the Faculty of Law professor if there is an appointment of a parliamentary group in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia or if there is a term of MP and whether the people represent a parliamentary group or a national MP? It's our organization here, our internal organization. What it says in the Constitution can't crush this, especially if you bring it in a way that isn't even prescribed in the Constitution. So please, Mrs. Micic, we are on the verge of no longer being able to endure what you are doing in the National Assembly. Either be in that place as one of the equal ones, or get out of that place and get someone who's more reasonable. [[elevator in the O.R.]] For eight years, I was an opposition MP in the Serbian Parliament. I've done more trouble to the authorities than you have these days. It was a dictatorial power, as you claim; Parliament Speaker Dragan Tomic was the concept of democracy for you. Let him be a socialist, sometimes he didn't even know what democracy was, he was democratically chairing meetings of the National Assembly. Learn a little, learn good examples, not bad ones.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20570	This was another abuse of the rights of MPs, by using the amendment to personally promote and promote his party, which we were not obliged to listen to. Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. I'll put you on the same vote. Whoever's on the edge can fall. It's dangerous. For 43, against 99, there are no abstentions, 27 did not vote, a total of 169 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 113 of the amendment. The Education Committee has adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The amendment was submitted by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here's a word for the amendment, MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20571	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Article 114. The draft law sets out the powers or tasks to be carried out by a larger college. In some 15 points, what the Government, or the Proposer and those working on the bill, is listed there is to be carried out by this body. We think that these are too big and unnecessary powers and consistently, like when we were in power, so even now, we defend that concept that we consider to have been more valid -- we suggest that it does certain tasks, which are contained in the SRS amendment, which I explain. It is the easiest thing to do when you are in a position to seek the highest rights for those to whom the law applies, to seek the highest wages for those to whom the law applies and to seek everything maximum and liberal. But a serious political party is in the same way, when it is in power and is in opposition, representing its political ideas and its programme. Accordingly, we ask that the higher university has the following competences - delivers an opinion on the draft statutes of colleges; brings a curricula and a programme of basic, specialist, masteral and doctoral studies by sections, groups or directions; brings a curricula and a programme of continuous vocational education and training; brings a programme of scientific research, i.e. art projects of the university; sets out measures to encourage the development of highly successful and gifted students; at least once a year examines the report on the implementation of the programme of scientific research, i.e. art work and performs other tasks, established by this law and the statute of the university. On issues from its jurisdiction, the university decides most of the votes of the total number of members. We hereby specify the powers of the Council, not too large, not too small, not too little, but those powers that we consider necessary and necessary to carry out these tasks. I was surprised by the commitment of a national MP, belonging to the positioning political group, and he has submitted to a number of amendments, that these amendments are being withdrawn, because he has heard the government say there may be certain shortcomings, imperfections, and imperfections in this bill, because a reform of higher education is yet to be expected. I think the reformist law was due today because the DOS pre-election campaign said there are over 200-300 laws relating to the reforms of all life segments in Serbia, that enough is just to choose the DOS and that these laws will come. Unfortunately, we see that it's "on a piece, on a rag, on a little bit", there's no time to wait. And, and the propo that Miki Savivić, cousin and client of Mr Batic, did not propose the government but was elected by the university, which is exactly what we pay attention to -- you know, the government as founder, the National Assembly, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, participate in funding the work of universities and universities, and also about such people we have to make sure that someone who is unsuitable for the work or co-operation of the university never gets elected again. Imagine what could happen, imagine tomorrow and Zabunovic being proposed as a member of the college council (it's the one with the sock on his head that fell into Customs).
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20572	Is any of the other authorised participants in the debate applying for a word on this amendment, (No. I put the amendments to the vote. For 36, against 95, the abstentions were not voted 30, out of a total of 161 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Since we're closer to break time, I'm setting a break by 15.00 hours. [[After break - 16.05.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen, please insert your identification cards into the MPs to determine the quorum. I figure we've got a quorum and we can keep working. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Lemajic, Milan Radulovic, Bojana Aleksic, Dragoljub Vojnović and Vladimir Andric. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does an authorised representative of the motionor want a word? Here's a word from MP Bojana Aleksic. Please wait a little while for the MPs to take their seats, not to be disturbed by the presentation (SRS ambassadors entering the O.R.).
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20574	Article 114 lists the powers of the educational and scientific council. One of these powers, in the view of us from the Democratic Party of Serbia, was to be the choice of the dean and produced; that was the DSS amendment, as a consequence of the amendment to Article 110, in which we propose it. I'd say again, we've advocated that the teaching-science council, as the bearer of the autonomy of the university, the election and the dean. Unfortunately, our amendment to Article 110 has not been accepted and I am taking this opportunity to express our disappointment over not accepting the amendment, since it was one of the DOS' pre-election promises. Now there's nothing left for me but to withdraw this amendment to Article 114. Like I said, he was only a consequence of the amendment to Article 110.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20575	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? Here's a word from MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20576	I must repeat the principle that SRS MPs cannot accept an amendment submitted to Article 114. By adopting that amendment, I would... (the votes - the amendment has been withdrawn).
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20577	Mr. Nikolic, I apologize, but MP Bojana Alexic has withdrawn the amendment. I find the amendment to article 114 has been withdrawn. On Article 114, MP Bratoljub Janackovic submitted the amendment; he was also withdrawn. National MP Bozidar Vujic once proposed that the name of Chapter VII and Article 115 be deleted. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does an authorised representative of the motionor want a word? Here's a word from the People's MP, Bozidar Vujic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20578	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Amendment of the SRS to Article 115. The draft law on the university, which I am now here in front of the Assembly and in front of you, is an attempt by the SRS to improve, in any case, this bad law on the university, and subsequently this member. Except that it is an attempt and an expression of the good intentions of the SRS that what you have said so transparently - reform and reform itself, as you will translate into this legislative project that is far from all that, far from reform. If you are already using the word reform, then as a member of the SRS, I cannot understand that the reforms - which you announced in the pre-election campaign and which is why the vast majority of citizens, wanting to see these reforms come, to come better tomorrow for this Serbia, trust you -- do not exercise the general well-being of the Serbian population. These are reforms only in the sense that you are returning a legal project, until today in 1998, to a legal project from 1992. Even that, transparently, which is your property, don't even keep it a secret. You're going back to something that, mildly said, can sound like a self-rule model. Besides, don't be surprised. Of the vast majority of members of the government, and even less than the vast majority of members here present at DOS MPs, only the remand of the defeated forces, so-called. The 8th session of the Union of Communists of Serbia, but of which the greatest damage is the people. What you said was the tyranny of the last government, that the winners of the eighth session lived up to you and the people, now you do the same thing to that people, but you bring back to those who defeated you at that eighth session. This is in no way a reform law, in any case not a good law, and that is not the same as this member; and therefore, as a member of the SRS, I suggest that you consider whether it is a good thing to return something that has been characteristic of past times, and you say that you are the bringers of this democratisation in society, that you are the bearers of reforms. What is proposed by a member, and what the SRS suggests by the amendment to delete, is something that used to be called a committee, now you call it well - the Republic Council for the Development of University Education. Why don't you show yourself to the people the way they are. Call it a free university committee of former, changed and communists in your heart. Stay true to yourself, as you were in 1988 and before...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20579	Please stick to the agenda theme. You've been given a word to explain your amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20580	Madam Chairman, we've just started working this afternoon, and you're not focusing enough on the work of this assembly and not following. I'm talking about a member, I'm talking about an amendment to this article, which has been filed by the SRS and I'm talking about the legal project of this communist proposal, which you're introducing self-government, and it's not my fault that you're not following. Change the brand of beer. So, the amendment that the SRS has submitted refers to you having to understand; I don't know how you're going to do it, but you have to do it because of all those voters that got you votes and, in the first election to come, you won't get it. If you want to go to Europe, if you want to democratisation relations in society, if you want right, European, modern education, and hence the university law, then forget the committee time. If you forget the time of the committee and forget that only the government and you as a government can currently decide everything, then we can, one day, and unfortunately, it won't be possible with you to get the right law on the university. At all the mouths behind this pay phone, in the last three days, the responsible, resolute sports minister, Mr. Gašo Knezevic, told us that it was time for the university to start enjoying autonomy... (The President - you've exceeded your time)... I'm done. Here, that he should enjoy free science and education, art and every other free work at the university. What you're introducing, that the government determines ten members of the Republic Council, what you're introducing that the government will have constant control over what you say, call transparent university autonomy, will not be able to do at all. This amendment is for it to be fixed. You won't be able to do it, but in any case, because of all the other laws that are not reformable in any way, you won't get citizens' trust in the first next election, and then you'll see how the people vote on you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20581	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? Here's a word from MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20582	It would be good if the MPs, who wait here for an hour and more to create a quorum, have patience and nerve to wait for them, had the nerve to speak for 30 or 40 seconds, the longer the amendment promoter talks than the planned time, when they too would show the patience that we each day, three hours in vain, wait for the session to either begin or continue after the break.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20583	Please return to the agenda theme.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20584	It's interesting that the government offers us a bill of law on the university and offers us Articles 115, 116, 117 and 118, which are almost completely denied by the university, as if the university were a hot chestnut, as if the university were something silly, and the government sees that the sooner they get rid of it, the sooner they don't, in any way, affect what's going on at the university or what might happen at the university. How else to interpret the proposal to form a republican council for the development of university education, which will make up rectors, proctors and ten members appointed by the government. First of all, if you wanted to fully implement the principle that students are asking about everything, how come there are no students - the predictor within the framework of this republican council for the development of university education? That's one question. The second question is what will the Minsitism of Enlightenment do: if the greater wise men will establish a proposal for conditions to start and perform the work of the university; if it will decide on the material position of the university and participation in the social product; if it will consider and decide on the development and capacities of university education; if it will decide and consider the participation of the university in achieving a programme of scientific and research work of importance for the Republic, rather than on the importance of the university; if it will even carry out some other jobs, which you say are in accordance with the law, and they are not listed here, and this is always a threat to what is still in line with the law. Then what are the employees of the Ministry of Education and even the Ministry of Science and Technology going to do? What are they going to do, when all the advice of the wise man, made up of the prophet and the proctor, will consider and resolve? What's of interest to the Republic is solving the council for the development of university education. Not a council on the development of the Republic, not an economic council, which would decide how much participation in the social product is, but a council on the development of university education takes over the jobs that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has to worry about. These are her constitutional powers, and rightly so are all those MPs who otherwise speak and think, and they won't say here that it's a committee again. We have as much advice as you want: advice for the development of agriculture, advice for the village, advice for this, advice for what and who asks them what the body will look like. All you collect and teachers will be in one body, deans in another, and what will look like a body where there will be rectors, and what they wouldn't be in some body, and here's the formula, you found a modus to be a republican council for the development of university education. You say -- it was in 1992, but it was never so much in office that his participation felt. How can he feel? To do the jobs the government is supposed to do? I think this is again, now there are already four members, a delusion for those who have asked for the university and the university to be completely autonomous and that these formulations are barely fixed at five points, what will the Republic Council do. This will look like that commission that was supposed to write text and notes 15 to 20 years ago for our country's new anthem, came up with several proposals, and no proposal was ever adopted. After all, who is in charge of this counsel or to whom does this counsel take account? He has no rights, no responsibilities, and he will bring his own Rules of Procedure about his work, as much as he can wrap himself up.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20585	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 48, against 118, a abstentioned one, was not voted 17, a total of 184 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. In Article 116. The amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Here, you have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20586	The People's Messenger is silent about the pay phone. (President: Time. Time is extremely difficult, but for Serbs in Kosovo Mitrovica. At the end of this presentation, I would like to welcome all students and professors from the Faculty of Kosovo Mitrovica, who stood by the Serbian people and daily organise justified protests by Serbs against terror being held over the Serb people in Kosovo and Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20587	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 41, against 95, the abstentions were not voted 52, a total of 188 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic to Article 117. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The word is given by MP Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20588	Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment I have filed has been deleted by article 117. It's a bill of law. This amendment is the logical consequence of previous amendments to this seventh part - the Republic Council for the Development of University Education. An interesting explanation of the government of the Republic of Serbia is that it does not accept the SRS on this chapter: "Amendman should not be accepted, because as part of strengthening the autonomy of the university in relation to the state, the proposal for a law strengthens the role of the Republic Council for the Development of University Education, which was also foreseen in the 1992 University Act." Apparently, the government's only argument, or Ministry of Education, is the 1992 law. The government calls itself reformist, however, if it is to judge under this bill, this government will rather be reactive than reformal, because for it, roughly, this 1992 law is sacred and it must not be changed. The amendments of the SRS to this part are the logical consequence of the idea that the SRS is expelled from the university and that this council does not exist as a permanent and special body over the government, or ministry. It is interesting how Article 118 defines the competences of this council. According to Article 118, this council has the following competences: "1) lays down a proposal for conditions for the start-up of the university's work and performance; 2) the material position of universities and universities and the participation of university education in the social product; 3) the development and capacity of university education; 4) the participation of the university in the achievement of scientific research programmes of importance for the Republic; 5) it also performs other tasks in accordance with the law". All of this I've read, and what the powers of this council are, in fact, the powers of the Ministry of Education. Now I don't understand what the Ministry of Education will do if there is this advice and if this is adopted, and apparently it will adopt. I don't think we should take away the Ministry of Education of his authority and jurisdiction and give them to some body that will be out of government control, or the Ministry. If this is adopted and this council is voted upon, then the question arises why is the Ministry of Education, what will his role in this society be?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20589	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 51, against 118, there are no abstentions, not 21, a total of 190 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 118, the amendment was submitted by Parliament of People Gordana Pop-Lazic. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Do you want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20590	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, as you have already heard from the presentation of my colleagues, have requested the removal of chapter seven of the University Law and within the framework of the procedure, each member, both 115 and 116, and 117, relating to the advice for the development of university education, for the reason that the proposer himself did not tell us why the government had decided to set up one such advice, which we cannot say was any body, because it was not. He apparently has some advisory function from his very name, so it's an auxiliary body of the Ministry of Education. We also see from the names that it should affect the development of university education. From Article 118, which speaks of the responsibilities of this council, we see that this is not really because, under point - 1), "it sets out a proposal for conditions for the start of work and for the performance of the university, or university". What's that? Those are the minimum technical conditions he must have. For example, the building of a future university, the number of professors or the number of colleges to establish a university and so on, which is all regulated by some other sublaws, or the government will have to adopt such regulations. Under point - 2) "it determines the material position of universities and universities and the participation of university education in social product". It's all government can get from the university's organs, and she didn't have to educate this kind of advice. Under -3) "development and capacity of university education". The Ministry's professional service also monitors the capacities of universities and individual universities, in direct contact with rectors or deans. This is truly fully declassified that if one organ can be called, which is more, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, the advice of wise men, is doing such miserable things. What is most important, and what this council should do, is what is in Article 13 of this law -- "it gives consent to the elaborate on the justification of the establishment of a university or university, unless the founder is a government". We, if you remember, have given the amendment to this article, believing that private founders, private legal persons and individuals should be in the same position as the state when they are the founder of a university or university, so if they don't have to endure any elaborate or not creating a lab, that neither should the one who has the money and has the opportunity to establish a university or university. In view of who will make up this advice, as stated in Article 116, these may be the same wise men as those currently sitting in the Federal Constitutional Court, whose decisions will certainly be the subject of research by lawyers holding the profession; that court, at the request of the SRS and some other applicants, considered whether certain provisions of the Extraprofit Act could be retroactive and decided not to have a decision. I am convinced that many of our lawyers will deal with this one position of the highest court in this country, which has allowed himself to make a decision that there is no decision. Who is this, who in this country can have a decision if they don't have, say, a constitutional court? Well, we have people like that in the constitutional court, and unfortunately, they'll be similar to rectors and deans. Few who, like 50 professors of the Faculty of Law, voiced against the adoption of an unconstitutional extradition regulation, the former president of this country to the UN tribunal.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20591	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate applying for a word on this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 48, against 110, the abstentions were not voted 27, out of 185 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Lemajic, Milan Radulovic, Bojana Alexic, Dragoljub Vojnović and Vladimir Andric. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Do you want a word? No, I don't. Do any of the applicants of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Does any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 55, against 79, there were no abstentions, no 51, of a total of 185 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Bratoljub Janackovic submitted an amendment to Article 118, which withdrew in the morning part of the session. I find that amendment has been withdrawn. On Article 122, the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Blazic. The government and the Education Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MP Milos Nesovic submitted to the 130th amendment. The government and the Education Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here's a word from MP Milos Nesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20592	The Honorable Presidency, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SPS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 130. It's a bill of law on the university. Article 130 speaks of the obligations of the Republic to provide funds to the university, i.e. the university whose founder, for the material costs of business, depreciation and investment maintenance, salaries of workers in accordance with the law, equipment, performance of scientific - professional work, etc. I suggested that between points 3 and 4 it be inserted - "resolvement of staff matters". We know that the university has the best students, students who have an average of 10, and we know that their progress requires a great deal of research on writing papers in order to achieve success, become professors, extraordinary professors and regular professors, and in the end it happens with the day teachers from the university retire without a settled housing issue. I think this way, with the imperative of the law, with a clear emphasis, we would show the government's willingness to systematically and systematically regulate this burning issue. Indeed, resolving housing issues at the university does not exist, which shows the extreme irresponsibility and neglect of founders towards science, the development of science and the overall creative heritage, because here is a fundamental existential condition. I ask the Members to plead for this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20593	Thank you. Is anyone else applying for this amendment? National MP Bora Stanimirovic, authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20594	Mr Nesovic's amendment is acceptable for several reasons. The first thing that comes first of all to young people, and the goal is to make science the most able to stay at the university. But what happens in practice? It happens that the standard of these assistants - trainees, even assistants of the magistrates, is far weaker than the standard of the students themselves; they, as regular students who finance themselves from the budget, can use various loans, scholarships, and above all student homes, and then it's much easier to study than when they're finished. Their problems only arise after graduation. We from the SPS started an action a few years ago and started building apartments for university teachers, but above all for young talented assistants, who represent the perspective of each university, or university. If we want to keep them, it's not enough that we might increase their salary a little bit more, so far it's what it is, but the apartment is just the most important possibility that young experts choose to stay in the country. That is why I propose that this Article 134, as envisaged, reduces some of the funding to colleges that themselves generate some revenue on the basis of Article 130, and above all, according to the Government's amendment, thinks of the material costs, so that they can be allocated to investments. In that case, one number of apartments could be built for young assistants, i.e. for young teachers; that would be a chance for them to work and to achieve far more in their profession. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20595	Since there are no more entries for the word, I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 40, against 104, abstention, was not voted 38, out of 183 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted the amendment to Article 133. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Is anyone applying for this amendment? Here you go. National MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20596	This amendment would best be explained by Natasa Jovanovic, but you took away her word, in good time for you. This amendment would explain Ljubomir Kragovic well, you would find our reasons most appropriate and try to resort to such a way of explaining the amendments. Let me remind you what this is all about. The bill promoter, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, who is the founder of a number of universities in the Republic of Serbia, prescribes that the University of 133, or a university whose founder is the Republic, determines the amount of tuition for students who pay tuition and the amount of compensation for individual services and actions performed by the university or university. There is no mention of a university, or university, whose founder is not the Government of the Republic of Serbia, private university or university. It directs us to this provision that autonomy from founders provides only for universities and universities whose founder is the Government. So, if the citizens of Serbia have invested money in the establishment of the university, the government that cares about the money of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia says: you who we have established completely autonomously decide how high the tuition will be, how high the fee will be paid for the services that you do; you who founded private persons will have to regulate with private persons how high the compensation will be, you won't be able to do it yourself. The question is, why? All forms of property are equal, all forms of organization of the university and university are equal. Why is the university founded by the Government of the Republic of Serbia itself establishing the level of tuition, and the college established by a private person must have an agreement with a private person on how high the tuition will be. What's being protected? Private face money? Why is money not protected by the citizens of the Republic of Serbia entrusted to the government and forwarded to the university? You know, with the following provisions of the law, you determine the amount of funding the proportional amount of revenue achieved. It doesn't matter how much the universities themselves achieve and how much they have to make up for from the budget. This amendment, submitted by Natasa Jovanovic, balances the conditions. Now you can't set the frameworks for a college that's privately owned and you say, "We didn't fight for you, we didn't fight for your autonomy, we talked about autonomy on what people pay for, and you're paid by a private man, you're going to ask him how much it's going to be." You can't tell him that, and that the dean of the university that founded the state says, "Here's a deal within the college how much the tuition will be, how much your services will cost, you're autonomous, and the government won't move into that business." The government must interfere in this business. As you were surprised by some colleges as soon as you took power, so suddenly 4-5 000 marks were assigned to enrol some colleges, so you had to return it. That's how you'll be surprised again when this university law is passed. I guess you have to think about having all those kids who go to college vote, vote their parents and their relatives. Think about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20597	Thank you. Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 38, there are no 103 abstentions, 37 did not vote, out of 178 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 133, the amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Christodulo. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20598	Article 133. The bill stipulates that the university, or university, whose founder is the Republic, determines the amount of tuition for students who pay tuition, the amount of compensation for other services, etc. Our proposal, which we tabled on behalf of the Social Democratic Union and Social Democracy by Sunday, and from Sunday's Social Democratic Party, predicts that the tuition is determined according to the obtained opinion of the student parliament of the university or college. So, the bottom line is that we believe that legitimate representatives of students have the right to give their opinion on the amount of tuition they pay and the other services provided to them. We do not foresee that this opinion is binding, but it can give a good answer to the question of what students want, what they will or can't do, and that question often in the past remained without a clear answer when the rigorous gatherings that sometimes took place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20599	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? Here's a word from the Minister of Education, Mr. Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20600	I think colleges will determine the level of tuition according to certain parameters. Student organisations or students do not have the issue in their work of law and obligation. That's why we refused this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20601	Thank you. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 11, against 91, two abstentions, 70 did not vote, a total of 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 134 of the amendment. The Education Committee has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment of the Government has become an integral part of the bill. The 134th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Jovanovic. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The word is made by MP Dragan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20602	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 134 which I have proposed that the amount of funding made available under Article 130 is not reduced by part of the revenue that colleges make through their own work from passing professional exams, certain types of tuition, application exams and so forth. That's why I gave a broader explanation. It probably destimulated the work of those colleges that make significant incomes this way. I saw that the government read carefully and that the argument was good, because the government in its explanation for not accepting the amendments that I made to Article 134 said that these solutions were identical to those given by the Government in its amendment. All this would be good if there were no invoices and documentation that I had handed over the amendment on March 6th, and that the government had given its amendment on March 23rd. This largely shows that the old government's practice, which is known as the democratic government, continues. I wouldn't be surprised if Mr. Janjic were the head of that government as a radical man, it wouldn't surprise me very much. But from a democratic government that keeps saying to itself that it is democratic, it is inadmissible, at least in the parliamentary life of Europe we are constantly calling upon, this relationship with the MPs, whether they are from a position, or opposition. But it has been stressed here through years of practice, especially according to opposition MPs, that amendments of MPs delivered seven days before the government's amendment are not accepted. I think it's insulting MPs, that it insults the National Assembly, and that we must not continue with such practice, regardless of whether it's an amendment to the position or opposition. I think it should always be an honor for the government and the assembly to accept the amendment of the MP, when he comes seven days before the government's amendment, that there is nothing harmful, nothing ugly, only perhaps someone's vanity is affected. I think we should break up with this practice, and that's why I answered the most. By the way, I'm satisfied with the accepted solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20603	There's a word from MP Slobodan Janjic, a replica. (Emissary Slobodan Janjic puts Radovan Karadzic and Ratko Mladic on the pay phone. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20604	Yet this is the Serbian Parliament and the Serbian heroes can be there, if you don't mind these five-pointers down there, carried by your parents, these heroes can't move anyone while I'm here. I carry them in my heart and in my hands. When this is no longer a Serbian parliament, but a Reichstag chaired by Eva Brown, maybe they won't be there. But then we'll take them with us, and you won't get them dirty. And to you, Madam Chairman, let me say whether or not I'm a Democratic or not they told the citizens of me and you last night on the terrace of the Moscow Hotel. You're sitting in mine and I'm sitting in my company. You were approached by citizens and the most reprehensible insults characterized by your conduct in the Assembly, and I was applauded. I think it's a standard for the conduct of MPs in this assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20605	Is the amendment to Article 134 any of the other authorised participants in the debate applying for a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 38, against 81, the abstentions were not voted 50, out of 169 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Sroboljub Zivanovic submitted to the 136th amendment. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There's a word from MP Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20606	I have submitted an amendment to Article 136 of point 3 - the words "chosen bigger" are replaced by the words "dean". The explanation - in the J.I. Bill's chapter, the law provides for which university, or university and responsible person are the great punishments for their violation. The fines range from 25 to 70,000 dinars. It is not regulated here who will be the judge for the assessment of the size of the offence and the sentence. Again, the ruling oligarchy at the university wants to hide its malfeasances and illicit actions. The 1992 law opens the door for immoral professors, which suits you. From your associates, Mr. Minister Gašo Knezevic, I heard they're making a statement - we're doing well in the Assembly. I don't know what you're holding on to, but your professional explanations of this law are jumbled and very unprofessionally prepared. When you visited universities and dorms the other day with the Prime Minister, you then spoke to one of the best students at the Faculty of Economics, Wonderful Peric. You asked her which party she belonged to, but you didn't ask her how that girl with her student incomes lives, or how her parents support her, because her parents became a technological surplus in the factory where she worked thanks to your reform laws. And before I leave this booth, I ask the president of the Assembly two big questions -- what other names can be called individuals, to describe themselves, as thieves, criminals, mobsters and murderers, without getting a warning? Because when the government was established, it was said that its work would be transparent, public and that all radical criticisms would be accepted by this government. Since this assembly has been established, we have only heard from DOS representatives so offensively speaking about previous authorities and individuals, but all those who have spoken of it have not received a warning, because they wanted to demonstrate the negativeness of the work of the previous authorities in a transparent manner. That is why I want us to be all equal in this House, both the ruling parties and the current opposition. I hope the President of the Assembly will respect these questions I have raised and give an adequate answer to them, very positive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20607	Is the MP responsible for giving an answer as chairman or do you want to wait for the President of the Assembly? (Employer Srboljub Zivanovic, from the place: No. ) I find that the MP makes a distinction between the presidents and does not know that the chairman has all the rights, obligations and duties entrusted to him by the President of the Assembly. It is unfortunate that we are not equal with the MPs of the people. Anybody else answer for a word? The word has the Minister of Government, Mr. Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20608	I never ask people a question in my life -- what parties are you a member of? It doesn't happen to me, and at least I do it with students.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20609	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I am putting the amendment to Article 136 to the vote and asking the MPs to plead. For a vote of 35, against 84, the abstentions were not voted on by 49, out of 168 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 139th Amendment was submitted by MP Lazar Marjanski. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? The word has been made by the People's Messenger Lazar Marjanski.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20610	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment I submitted to article 139 would make sense that members of this law from 111 to 118 have been completely or partially changed. I asked for the 139th term to be deleted for a number of reasons. In the morning part of the session, I said that there are many people who need to be paid in the framework of a number of councils, student parliaments, etc. It's like "already seen." It would certainly be wiser to focus these resources on some fund of the poor or the best students, who will certainly benefit from it, they and our whole society, than to have all this work paid so much, with so much greater, the parliaments, etc. I believe that this member should be abolished, and for these reasons, I said that a little bit of economic disbursement, and probably the Ministry will find a way and method to transfer money to those people, the best students, who are materially unsecured, that it will be as a reward, or some help, and everyone will benefit from it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20611	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 34, v 79, the two abstentions, did not vote 52, out of 167 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 140th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Toma Busetic, Zarko Obradovic, Branko Ružić, Slobodan Tomovic and Milan Stankovic. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does an authorised representative of the motionor want a word? Here's a word for Parliamentarian Milan Stankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20612	On behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 140. It's a bill of law. This article provides in its first position that the mandate of the rector, the proctor, the dean and the producers, appointed until the entry into force of this law, lasts until 30 September 2002. The second position provides that the advice of the university, i.e. the university, within 30 days of the day of the constitution, may relieve the appointed persons of the first position of this member and conduct the selection of a new Rector, proctor, dean, or prodeced. We have proposed this amendment that the mandate of the rector, proctor, dean, or prodekana lasts the longest until September 30th in the first position, and in the second view that the words "for the period until September 30th 2002" are deleted. We think it's necessary, because you don't have to do the same job twice. Practically free the university's advice, or college, to do that job twice this year. We feel that the amendment is entirely meaningful and I suggest that the National Assembly accept it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20613	Anybody else answer for a word? Here's a word from MP Bora Stanimirovic, representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20614	Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment should be accepted for several reasons. First, he says that predetermining how much someone will stay in office means working past the law. It's not the first time. These deans, or rectors, were appointed in November 2000 or early 2001 and were then known to remain until September 30, 2002. If it is known that it was mainly the people who attacked the University Law, who said it was a non-civilization law, that it was the law that abolished autonomy and most criticised the minister for having the right to determine and appoint rectors and deans, as soon as they came to that function for them, the law became the best for them. Couldn't it have been said that they would remain in office until the new law was passed. A bill of this kind of law we got at the beginning of last year, and it made sense to even consider it. Now, however, I don't see that this amendment makes sense, since it is that as long as all this takes effect, in a month or 60 days, as Mr. Stankovic said, regular elections will be held by June of the month, with the importance of October 1st, but it would not be good for the dean's election to be made in the meantime, as proposed in the law, and that the election is again valid until September 30th. In that case, there would be a duplication. For this reason, however, I suggest that this amendment be accepted and that this member be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20615	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 31, against 92, the abstentions were not voted 38, out of 161 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Miroljub Veljkovic submitted to the 140th amendment. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does an authorised representative of the motionor want a word? Here's a word from MP Miroljub Veljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20616	Unlike the predecessors, I do not suggest that an entire member be deleted, but on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I suggest that Article 140 delete Article 2. In that position, the Government suggested that the University’s advice, in which we believe the main word is being guided by the Government’s people, could, immediately after the constitution, or after the adoption of this law, be resolved by the appointed persons, i.e. the rector, the proctor, the dean and the bereaved and before the end of their term of office, which runs until 30 September 2002. So this is the mild lustration, a term used by Minister of Education Gašo Knezevic, which will take place after the adoption of this law. Let's explain to the people what that term means - lustration. It would, simplistically, be a cutting of ideological opponents at the university or even simpler said "if you're not in DOS, you're flying from college regardless of your professional and pedagogical qualities". The one, to remind you, the unnatural regime before you was much more tolerated than you. He didn't deal so harshly with ideological opponents at the university. And this same Gašo Knezevic was the first professor at the university during that period. Then, let me remind you, Veselinov, Labus, Hiber and not to count any further. So this unnatural regime didn't deal with ideological opponents. It's a finding. However, when I think about it, and this existing, very aggressive one, the University Law was not exactly a law when it failed to get Gashu Knezevic out of university. It's also not true that this government is not tolerated either. Here, Gašo Knezevic says a slight lustration will be carried out. Imagine, term, mild lustration. He thus sent a clear message to university professors: "I will see little through your fingers if you join, let's say, the Civil Union of Serbia and you will be able to keep your job." At first Batic did this to us and took out the judiciary, by joining all of the holders of the judicial functions in his party, and now Gašo would do so at the university. It's fortunate that we don't have a health minister, otherwise it would be assumed that all health workers would now be dressed in yellow. I'd remind you, gentlemen, if you hadn't spoken like that when you were conquering power. You sang a whole other song. You were saying that there would be political rematchism, etc. However, you are now announcing the start of a mild lustration, etc. For the future of the university and the general future of our internal political relations, I suggest you delete the position of the 2nd member of the 140th, or accept this amendment. It's not gonna be a century of political rematch, is it? On the political scene of Serbia, your survival in power, let's say it is measured for days, not hours; and what should the next power be, and for the sake of the Serbian Radicals' authorities, to do. Recuting ideological opponents at the university and persecuting? I suggest we once arrange for the only criteria for selecting a professor at the university to be his professional and pedagogical quality. Do you understand that? You don't understand anything. You don't know what you're talking about. ) To finish once and for all with political rematch at the university accepting the amendment of the Serbian Radical Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20617	The word has been made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20618	There are several reasons, and he could have pleaded to the minister before. To see that I'm not the same as you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20619	The word is made by Minister Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20620	For our internal understanding, but not only that, but also for some other reason, I accept this amendment on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20621	Does the MP want a word now? The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20622	I understand why this amendment was accepted, and you don't understand. It is contained in an argument which I was going to offer; so all these deans, rectors, all these chosen and appointed persons you have set up, and where you have appointed them to be replaced by September 30th; and they are then appointed by the mandates. You took over, you set these people up under the 1998 Law, and you should have accepted the amendment, or you shouldn't have written this. Those men you are about to pursue are covered by Articles 141, 142 and 143, and you will not accept amendments, and this is nothing to me that you have accepted this amendment. It didn't apply to anyone you'd be persecuting. You're not going crazy on your own people, are you?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20623	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) With the conclusion that on behalf of the Government its representative, Minister of Education and Sports, Mr Gašo Knezevic accepted the amendment to Article 140, but that the Committee on Education did not accept this amendment, while the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, the National Assembly is obliged to declare the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 102, against 25, a abstentioned one, was not voted 30, a total of 158 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment most of the votes. To Article 140. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Lemajic, Milan Radulovic, Bojana Aleksic, Dragoljub Vojinovic and Vladimir Andric. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The People's Messenger Nenad Lemajic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20624	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in order to explain the amendment that the Democratic Party of Serbia parliamentary group has put on Article 140, I must remind the Democratic Party of Serbia's fundamental position on university autonomy. We really advocate the right, full and essential autonomy of the university. We believe that autonomy should be given to the profession. The institution of that autonomy at the university should be a profession, which means colleges and cathedrals. To really do that, we gave these amendments. The concept of our proposal puts cathedrals and colleges at the centre of autonomy. The concept given by the promoter, i.e. the government, puts the university's own institution in the centre of autonomy. That's, of course, possible, but we think our concept is much better. Why? Because this concept hides the danger, and in some ways it creates a legal framework for indirect autonomy of the university to be compromised. I personally believe that this will not happen because relations at the university are such that it is practically impossible, regardless of the various political pressures, today to achieve the crucial influence of some bodies outside the university itself. On the other hand, we think it's a bad solution. Since this amendment is related to the amendment to Article 110, and that amendment has been rejected, on behalf of a group of applicants, I will withdraw this amendment, because simply when it has already been rejected to Article 110, then there is no need to submit it to Article 140.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20625	I find that, on behalf of the applicants, MP Nenad Lemajic withdrew the amendment, which ceases to be the subject of discussion in particular. The 141st amendment was submitted by MP Predrag Stojanovic. The breach of the Rules of Procedure can be pointed out by the president or representative of the parliamentary group. National MP Tomislav Nikolic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20626	I would ask you to read the Rules of Procedure, which is very clear when it comes to amendments. First of all, the amendments that suggest that a specific member be deleted are discussed, which is why you will leave the pet amendment for later, and first we will discuss the amendments that suggest that the whole article be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20627	In the synopsis for today's session of the National Assembly of Amendments on page 157, the next applicant and the next amendment to Article 141 is on page 157. So, given this synopsis on page 156, the amendment to Article 140 is. The 141st amendment was submitted by MP Predrag Stojanovic. The government and the Education Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The Legislative Committee has carried out a legal and technical order in the position of the 7th Amendment, which has been adopted by the Committee on Education, agreed by the applicant and a representative of the Proposer at the meeting of the Committee on Education. I find that this amendment, with the legal technical regulation of the Legislative Committee, has become an integral part of the bill. (Tomislav Nikolic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic. (Tomislav Nikolic: I want you to put to the vote first whether the Rules of Procedure have been injured. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20632	Ladies and gentlemen, since a severe violation of the Rules of Procedure has been made, I ask Mrs. Komic to read us the third position of Article 138. The Rules of Procedure, and then I'll go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20633	People's MP, you've been given a word to explain the amendment. Please explain your amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20634	You've hurt the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20635	The National Assembly has pleaded for the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20636	She didn't say what I was proposing.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20637	Please explain your amendment, since you do not have the right, according to the Rules of Procedure, to highlight the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20638	We can't do that.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20639	That's our Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20640	You've severely injured the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20641	That is what the National Assembly has declared.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20642	Please read Article 138's third position.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20643	You have time to explain the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20644	I'm not coming to the assembly anymore, believe me. (Tomislav Nikolic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20645	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20646	You have severely injured the Rules of Procedure, acting as The Hague tribunal - in the course of the debate, you determine the rules. National MP Velimir Simonovic came out for a pay phone and submitted a proposal to the National Assembly for you to read a member of the Rules of Procedure he claims to have been violated. You must put at least the vote to the Assembly to decide whether its proposal will be accepted or not. Every MP has the right to submit a proposal to the National Assembly. Mr Simonovic has submitted a proposal for you to read a member of the Rules of Procedure which he claims is injured, and the head of the parliamentary group does not want to take him into protection. I want us here to vote for the proposal now, and since you see for yourself that the hall is completely empty, whether you want me to arrange the proposal to determine the quorum, or you're finally going to determine whether we have a quorum to work with or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20647	I put to the vote the proposal of MP Tomislav Nikolic to read the provision of Article 138(3). Please state the proposal of MP Tomislav Nikolic. For 76, against 42, a abstentioned one, they did not vote 32, out of a total of 151 MPs. According to the proposal of MP Tomislav Nikolic, the chairman reads the position of Article 3 138. "When the bill contains provisions for which a return fact is provided, when voting on these provisions, the National Assembly will particularly decide whether there is a general interest in this feedback." The proposal issued by MP Tomislav Nikolic on behalf of MP Velimir Simonovic, who can make a proposal, according to the Rules of Procedure, but not in direct communication with the chairman. Does MP Petar Jojic want a word? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20648	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, all members of the Law relating to the review of the choice of associates and teachers in the titles carried out under the Law since 1998 should be deleted, because this would be unconstitutional and illegal, that is, contrary to justice and justice. The election and establishment of a working relationship were definitely carried out after the then applicable law and they can only be questioned in accordance with the Constitution and the law of that period. Otherwise, it would be a retroactive fact of this law, which, as I said, is absolutely unconstitutional. In accordance with the provisions of Article 117. The Constitution of SRJ laws, other regulations and general acts cannot have a feedback. Only certain provisions of the law, if required by the general interest established in their adoption, may have a feedback. So, just certain provisions. According to Article 121. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia laws, other regulations or general acts cannot have a feedback. Only by law can it be determined that certain provisions of this law, if required by the general interest laid down in the law-making process, have a feedback. The provisions of Article 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia lay down criminal acts and impose penalties on them under the law, i.e. under the second regulation applicable at the time of the execution of the act and of the particular act, unless the new law, i.e. the regulation, is easier for the perpetrator, which should, in particular, have been taken into account and applied. Therefore, it is obvious that the motion that this law should be applied retroactively since 1998, which is, as I said, contrary to the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and at the same time, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. In particular, provisions on the launch and conduct of disciplinary proceedings against employees at the university and university, who allegedly committed abuses of office or overruled powers, or powers under the 1998 University Act, should be deleted. This is legal nonsense, if it comes from always a valid rule of ageing and initiating and conducting proceedings after the expiry of a certain period (even for criminal acts), which shall be calculated from the day the action is done. In view of the time passed, the conduct and initiation of the disciplinary procedure has already been absolutely obsolete, which is otherwise taken into account by the authorities and the court under official duty. After all, if the procedure could otherwise be initiated and managed because the time for the act of limitations has not yet expired, then it would seem according to then applicable regulations, and it would not be foreseen by this law. In addition, this bill is obviously calculated to carry out revenge against some and probably for political and other reasons, and always with the ultimate goal of removing them as undesirable from the university by the current rules of choice. That is why it is politically unacceptable, and it is contrary to the Constitution and international law. The 2001 Labour Act does not provide for an institution to take over work, so that the possibility for colleges, as provided for in Article, should be deleted. 89th of this law. In addition, it should be said that the choice of calling (and establishing a working relationship) can be regulated differently at individual universities, i.e. universities, and by means of this initiative many other regulations could be introduced, such as rules on when a working relationship in law enforcement ceases, or stricter conditions could be avoided in relation to the choice or length of time of selection of certain persons in colleges. Apparently, the legislator did not take care of the consequences if this law was passed. Anyone elected under this 1998 law would be out of a job. All the college exams the students passed, in front of those teachers, would have to be canceled. All employees, therefore, would have to return their personal incomes, would have to cancel out their work experience and would have been deprived of all the rights which otherwise belong to them under the Constitution and the law, as acquired rights.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20649	I'm warning you of a time-out, Mr. Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20650	This can't all be done... I beg your pardon?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20651	You're out of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20652	Thank you very much. I'll be done right away. As far as the provisions of Article 4 provide for the non-violence of the university, its premises, it is contrary to the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, because the Code of Criminal Procedure provides that the internal affairs authorities are authorised to find the perpetrators of criminal offences, to bring them in to competent authorities, to collect data and evidence, and in which case they have the right to enter the university. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20653	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? Please, MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20654	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are now entering that darkest part of the University Law proposal, into our fourth round of objections to this bill, we are actually entering the core, into the basic motives for the adoption of the Law on the University, whose current content of the promoter has not even been very much interested, he is interested in the provisions of Article 141 to the end. What's this about? It is clear that, under the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, self-determined provisions of the law, if required by the general interest established in their adoption, they may have a return fact. Article 141 The draft law, regardless of the amendment to that article, has provisions which have a feedback, and the National Assembly has failed to establish that the provisions of Article 141 have a return fact and that the general interest requires that a member be made, although having a return fact. How does Article 141, even with the amendment that has been accepted, have a feedback? This is clear from the first position of Article 141 and it is, to say this for the public, not because of you: "Procedures for selecting teachers and associates who were conducted at the time of the 1998 University Act are subject to review. "In normal times such a provision should not even be written, so of course every procedure and every decision is subject to review. Why does the legislator (here I now fall for the story of the legislator) apostrophe that some procedures are subject to review? Because the opposing deadlines for review and because the position of the 5th Amendment, which was written by the Faculty of Law, provides for the re-trial to be conducted according to the provisions of this law. Now, someone needs to explain to the citizens of Serbia if they have done some work or if some procedure has been done under the law, how is a retrial under the new law? It's like passing a car on a green light, at a traffic light, and in the meantime, the law changes, so they say -- from now on it's forbidden to go green light, and then the billionaire remembers that at the time of the law, when it was possible to go to green light you passed, file a report and say, under the new law, you had no right two years ago to pass the green light. It's madness. You couldn't find a form to say - there was no law from 1998. There was. Here I heard it was brought in a non-democratic manner, and it was brought to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia by the procedure envisaged for the adoption of the law. He didn't contain the provisions on feedback as this democratic law on the university that you are now offering us. Article 141 is directed against all those who participated in the adoption of the Law on the University and should now be us, who were republican MPs in 1998, when we walk down the street to feel the shame of why at the time the National Assembly had passed such a law on the university. And who is he who can say to the Messenger of the people? He is ashamed of what you voted in the congregation. There's no man. You vote by conscience, by belief, and you have the right to do so, and that right is guaranteed by the Constitution. Not the National Assembly, an individual on the street can say to me - shame, shame on you for what you did in the Assembly, as a group of citizens told the president of the National Assembly last night. It's our destiny, we've been chosen to be public figures. But you can't send MPs to the MPs who sat before you in these benches to say, shame on you, you've passed the Law of the University. The university law was passed. It was valid. It'll stop valid at the end of April.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20655	I'm warning you, time's over.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20656	I'm done. It will cease to apply at the end of April when this law comes into force. If you want to repeat the procedures completed under that law, you should have determined the general interest in the adoption of Article 141. The law of the university. One day, one good day this year, we will have Serbia's Constitutional Court again. I'm sorry that the professors of law school come out here and won't tell us that Serbian citizens no longer have the highest legal protection, have no one to turn to when an unconstitutional law is passed.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20657	Just one brief piece of information for Mr. Nikolic. So, after discussing and deciding on amendments to Article 141, the National Assembly is scheduled to decide on the existence of general interest in the feedback of the provisions of Article 141, but first it is necessary to determine the text of Article 141 means, first it is necessary to pass the discussion in particular, very simply, very logically, and then it is voted whether there is a general interest. We'll vote on that. Does the People's MP Velimir Simonovic want the word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20658	We received a brief letter yesterday or today from the Committee on Education, which states that he found that Articles 1, 4, 9, 10, 11, 141 and Article 142, paragraph 2, have a feedback and assessed that there is a general interest in this feedback. So the assembly must first declare that there is general interest and then vote on these amendments. What would happen if we accepted these members of the law where we have a return fact, and eventually the Assembly said no, no, that's not true, we're not going to law with a return fact. You have, therefore, blatantly violated the Rules of Procedure and for this reason, ma'am, I no longer wish to participate in the debate on this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20659	Okay. Thank you. A proposal by the Rules of Procedure, Pal Shandor.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20660	The Honorable Chairman, it is a matter of the following nature: it would be logical if we had come from the farthest proposal, which is to delete a member. Since the amendment of our colleague, which says the member is being deleted and amended in the second paragraph, has been adopted, all other amendments submitted to the original text given by the Government have become groundless. I suggest that then, given that there are no amendments to the text given by Mr Stojanovic, the debate is interrupted, because any debate on the text on which there are no amendments is groundless. We can only decide what we have left, since Mr. Stojanovic's amendment has become an integral part of the law, so we just have to decide whether or not we accept that feedback. Since the tajtext has been changed by Mr Stojanovic's amendment being accepted, all other amendments relating to the government's text are in fact groundless. There's no point in having a debate about what's already been changed. So I suggest we not have this debate at all. Otherwise, if only that text had been adopted in part or if you had realized that we had come from the farthest proposal, which is to delete that member, the debate would have made sense. Since it's part of the law...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20661	We've come from that amendment and it's written by a member, Mr. Shandor.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20662	You weren't in there. Therefore, since we changed that Article 141 by adopting Mr Stojanovic's text, all the other amendments that have been submitted do not apply to this text and become immaterial. What we have left is to end this debate, to vote on whether we accept those feedback facts or not. Otherwise, all other stories relating to this article in 141 are stories about the text submitted by the government, and there is no such text, as Mr Stojanovic's amendment was accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20663	You know what, it's only possible that the applicants of the amendment to article 141 withdraw their amendments, and we are not authorized to assess that they are immaterial, especially when they are already in the procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure? By amendment? The speaker of the DOS parliamentary group, MP Cedomir Jovanovic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20664	Ms. Micic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will mention only two names, I will not go on, and if you want I can do it in replicas - the name of the Dean of the Faculty of Philology Marojevic and the name of the Dean of the Faculty of Electrical Engineering Theodosic. Then I'll quote you article 91. The 1998 university law: "Dekan is making a choice in calling and in the position of teachers or associates". Then I'll mention article 86. The law on the university we are talking about today and quoting the next position - the choice of candidates in calling teachers and associates performs an electorally larger college made up of all faculty teachers, and in case it is a choice of assistant title and co-workers of the university. I will then quote the controversial Article 141: "Decisions in the selection procedures remain in force if, within 60 days of the date of entry into force of this law, the electoral council makes the same decisions, to the least ordinary majority of the votes... ". I ask the Parliament of the Republic of Serbia if she thinks that individuals in society in which we want to change today are the same individuals who destroyed this country in the area of the university in 1998. and does this assembly think that a Marojevic, one Teodosic, party officials at universities, can share diplomas beyond the will of the electoral council and past the will of teachers. [[elevator in the O.R.]] As far as the retroactiveness of this member is concerned, that retroactivity doesn't actually exist functionally. No decisions are made retroactively. The election council, according to the procedure laid down under this law, will only review the decisions on the appointment of teachers or co-workers of the university by individuals. If you think that the Republika Srpska Assembly at the university should decide to appoint teachers or assistants, then you are actually repeating the mistake that this assembly made in 1998 when it said that a man was taking on a role that had been taught - scientifically greater. An example of the Medical Faculty - 500 appointments to call teachers or assistants, 256 is in accordance with the law, and everything else is past the law and legally defined procedures. Today we have a medical school that can no longer accept any assistant, no teacher, because it's an illegally usurped place that was intended for them. Should we support such a situation or should we empower teachers and assistants to re-check whether the logic of the party or the logic of the university is respected? Given everything that happened in 1998, 1999 and 2000, we openly say that we believe much more in the thesis that the university was a party cell, the company of those who were in power, than it was meant to be. So when we talk about retroactiveness, she's actually gone. Those people who passed exams with such professors went to lectures with such assistants are not responsible for such a thing. The responsibility is in the congregation that then passed the law and on the deans that applied that law, in violation of the rules of common sense. So the diplomas won't be cancelled, the calls won't be taken away if they're acquired in a process that we subsequently evaluate legitimately. When I tell me, I mean the teaching-science council, the election council, not the Assembly. We have no right to support such a situation. We need to make changes to the university, changes that will be made in the spirit of the law, laws that will respect common sense, and no law that will support the state, because the situation is bad. Those who passed this law know very well, because in the meantime, they gave up the people they had set up there. Remember the situation at Philology College, remember the months that passed in the protests and not in the lectures. In the end, the government of the Republic of Serbia, or the Belgrade University Management Board, decided to change the Dean of the Faculty of Philology, because otherwise it was not possible. At that time, they gave in and today we just need to put an end to a shameful period of our university history that will certainly be printed in black letters in historical books that will analyze the state of our universities.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20665	You're looking for what? On what grounds? You have no right to a replica, no mention at all, no party, no MP. Please leave the pay phone. I really can't give you the right to a replica. (Bora Stanimirovic: As an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Yeah, that's right. National MP Bora Stanimirovic as an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group, by amendment, not by the right of replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20666	Ladies and gentlemen, I'll talk about the amendment, I'll just mention what Mr. Jovanovic said. Based on two examples, two deans, two colleges, we're passing an entire law. This National Assembly is making a far greater mistake than the 1998 congregation. I will read only this about Article 141 of what Mr Jovanovic was talking about, where it is said: "The appearances of foreign universities from the application of this law are numerous and to this day not all recorded (awesome). Here will be listed those that are typical: mass presence of armed persons in colleges - from individual teachers selected or employed by direct application of this law, through the parapolitan security teams of the dean... "and so on. Please, it stays for history. It will not be a shame for the 1998 Assembly, but it will be a shame for this assembly, because on the basis of the two examples Mr Jovanovic mentioned, we fully identify all Serbia; we are setting aside all the universities of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20667	There is a word from MP Tomislav Nikolic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20668	I have to find out which way to warn the president of the National Assembly to approve and keep quiet the violations of the Rules of Procedure, made by the president of the DOS parliamentary group. Two infringements of the Rules of Procedure have been committed and Article 101(1) and (3) has been injured. First, "People's MPs are obliged to honor the dignity of the National Assembly." Mr. Jovanovic quoted us here, and based on that he created an entire story, one provision that is no longer in the proposal for a law on university. It was a provision -- the fifth or sixth position of Article 141 -- which was annulled by an amendment that the government accepted, and no longer what Mr Jovanovic quoted here. This was annulled by the 1st and 2nd amendments tabled by MP Stojanovic, which is that procedures are subject to review. No more of that decision that went into effect, so he can question himself. That's one thing. And the other thing is, if I had come out here and mentioned the names of someone from DOS, who's not a folk MP and who's not here in the O.R., I'd probably have lost my word and been kicked out of the O.R. by the decision of your majority by now. Mr. Jovanovic came out and mentioned the names of our citizens, regular professors of the university. I don't get into what kind of dean they were, but at least the minister of education should say -- sorry, this isn't the place where people are going to talk about themselves wrong, there's their colleges, there's a university, there's an expert public, convictions by DOS have already gone public for these three years. In the Assembly, my dear Mrs Micic, under the attitude of Article 101, it is forbidden to present facts and estimates from other persons' lives. But it is forbidden only by Serbian radicals and only persons belonging to DOS are protected. Anyone who doesn't belong to DOS here can be carried out on a pillar of shame, stamped, spit out, oiled with tar and feathers, just because it's not in DOS. You don't think of it, you chat at the president's table when he speaks to the president of the DOS Parliament Club, so you don't have to say - yes, I heard, but I can't tell him that he hurt the Rules of Procedure. You can't name people here, if they're not here and they can't replicate, or maybe we can all, but then everyone -- everything, not Serbian radicals, can't talk about others, and Mr. Jovanovic mentions the Deans. What are they, Mr. Jovanovic, professors of the university? You and I couldn't discuss it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-17-0.u20669	Mr. Nikolic, I'm obliged to give you an answer. First, you're wrong at all. We can check the stenographic notes. You give yourself the right to, say, talk about the DOS regime and to criticise everything, and not at the same time allow someone else to mention the previous regime, which lasted ten years, and you're talking about something that lasts 14 months much more than the subject. This concludes today's work. We didn't vote on this article 141. We'll continue that tomorrow. Bon appétit. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, the session is attended by 149 MPs. Please, in order to determine the quorum, insert identification cards into your MPs. I figure we have a quorum and we can keep working. National MP Dragan Markovic - breach of the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
