ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19522	According to the Rules of Procedure, the presidents or representatives of parliamentary groups would be entitled to the final term. The word is given by MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group (second call).
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19523	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am taking another chance to prove that this is one marketing law, as is most of the laws adopted so far. True, this one has an additional justification that even without the adoption of this law, the work of the state authorities would have been difficult to legalise certain rights provided by the Law on Social Care of Children. But the law announced and propagated with a lot of pomp in our public, as a law that finally financially helps families with children, does not require the provision of additional funds in the Republic of Serbia's budget. When you look at the rights that have so far had families with children, the truth contained in one law that contained in its name the word "child", such a dear word in Serbia and so much needed, when you look at both laws, you will find that there will only be fewer rights, so the government can boast that it will also achieve a surplus in the budget because it adopts a new law that permanently abolishs certain rights. So far, she's had a real master's allowance, every mother, and help with the baby's equipment every mother for every child. So far, by art. 23rd and 24th. The law on social care for children, the third child had the right to stay free of charge in preschool institutions. To remind those who forgot, to guide those who never knew, the law so far contained one small globular provision, but it was necessary at the time when it was passed, so, let's say, the third child was considered to be the third and every next child in municipalities or in parts of municipalities and settlements where the negative rate of the population's population. It was clear what we wanted with this bill and we were trying to achieve that goal, and the goal in Serbia is families with three children. The legislator rules out those rights and provides for certain rights for preschool age only for children without parental ageing, for children distracted in development and for children located in social protection institutions. The bill promoter didn't bother to move on. He didn't try, and he had time for a year and a half, as long as DOS has the authority over the citizens of Serbia, to look at the problem, not from the point of view of the opposition party who is asking for everything and promising everything and everything, but now from the point of view of the government that has the budget, which has the obligations of the budget, which has sponsorship, donations, embraced by the whole world and won because it has the love of the whole world and the promises of the whole world that not only our children, but every citizen of Serbia, will, individually, be much better. The legislator did not bother to solve the problem, to solve the problem of the village, the old-age households in the village. Why? Because tens of thousands of former workers in industrial giants, and even in state services, will be forced to return to the country with severances that his working age and his working hours in the working century cover with two German salaries, he goes to the country without any rights. Now that mother, when she had a child, the moment her work relationship stopped, there were no more supplements and no more compensations. She's now a mother who doesn't deserve a mother's allowance, and a child born in a family where people aren't employed is a child who doesn't deserve a child's allowance. In order for a child born in the country to achieve a child’s supplement, parents must have the right to health care. It has risen to the rebellion of the whole of Serbia to prove to you that there is no obligation of disabled, pension insurance, health care, but only volunteering. This government, this monetary government, this inhumane government, has time to listen to warrants, and there's no time to assess. Please, for your sake, I wish you good, I want you to leave your authority calmly; it is the most beautiful thing a man can wish you this hour. For your sake, I ask you to walk Serbia without escorts, without blocking the streets, without emptying the streets when one of you passes and to hear what the people think and what the people tell you. Unfortunately for you, it's not the cry of the people, it's the swearing and the grinding of the teeth. Five days, instead of thinking about how to convince you to help your children, I'm waiting to hear the name of some Serb you're going to hand over to The Hague. You've hired thousands of journalists to be on duty in front of one or another cabinet and to transfer your arguments and transfer your responsibilities, because you'd all like Serbian heroes to go to The Hague, you'd just want to be able to walk down the street and say -- well, that one, that one, that one, that other, that other part of DOS. Of course, the other one will say -- that's the first part of DOS; and that's clear now after all the reports. If you can't run the country proudly as a free country, if the UN membership obliges you to lie down, kneel, crawl, pray, if that's how you understand power, so be it. Anyone who wins the election has the right to exercise power as he understands it. This law is not political law. You would use it for political purposes if you were in opposition. As far as I'd be concerned, if you and I were in opposition, I'd be looking for a little more rights for the kids. How many of you have changed your mind about the fact that he has to vote for the government. How intimately does it disagree with the reduction of the rights of children and mothers, and you will vote, you will even carry the card of a fellow who is absent, to be a quorum only and not accidentally fail another law. How many of you think about this law that is under emergency procedure, without time to think about the law, without time to write amendments, included in the agenda as the second item of the agenda, and will enter into force on 1 June 2002. What kind of urgency is that in this country, do we have a little bit of a problem... (President: 10 minutes and 30 seconds. )......................................................................................................... I'm finishing up, I'm sorry, I haven't seen, whether we're having a bit of an emergency debate on the draft law, which reduces the law, or does not bring new rights, and will enter into force on 1 June 2002. May it serve you honor.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19524	Do any of the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? Yes, MP Borislav Pelevic, representative of the SSP parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19525	Dear citizens of Serbia, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Madam Minister, the head of the Assembly Club, Mr Dragan Markovic, seems to me to have best qualified this law - marketing law. It is obvious that a pre-election campaign has begun and that it is going to satisfy families who have children. The SS won't vote for this law, because we think it's really marketing and that in principle nothing changes or improves the position of families that have children. That is, in practice, the reasoning of this law, which states that there is no need for additional funds in the budget to be realised and applied to this law. It also explains that the most important definition of this law is to increase the importance of a population element within the framework of financial support for the family. I wouldn't agree with that. I fully agree with the legislator of this law that Serbia is in a very difficult situation and that the fall of birth is both worrying. I will remind only of the words of the highest authority for family law in Yugoslavia, and I would say in Europe and the world, professor of Dr Mark Mladenovic. He said that if this decline continues in Serbia, in 25 years we will be a minority in our own country, and in 100 years as Serbs, we will live in enclaves. He argued this on the basis of extensive and serious research into birth in Serbia. However, this law does not solve the problem. This law only pours funds from hollow to empty. This law doesn't stimulate a family to have more than one child. I don't mind that Albanian and Muslim families have more children and they have a positive birth rate; I have against the fact that the state is doing exactly nothing to increase the birth rate of the Serb people. I think that the legislator, or legislator of this law, has dropped a historic chance to fight a different law against the fall of Serbia, the fight against the white plague. This law can't handle it. The principle of universal implementation of measures across central Serbia and Vojvodina has been accepted, the proposer said. Does this mean that we no longer view Serbia as a single state? Does this mean that the Serbian government has decided that Vojvodina should be a special state in the state of Serbia? For the first time, it is in some bill of law that central Serbia is referred to as special and Vojvodina as special. That's not good. It goes to separatists in Vojvodina. That's how things can't be solved. We think that the parental supplement as a new measure of one-time support to the family, introduced to become both content and materially the main instrument of population policy, will not become. I agree that every family will be happy to receive a third child of 3,000 marks, 90,000 dinars, but to what they will spend that money on paying for electricity and increased cost of life. The money is spent quickly, and the child remains and should be rocked and fed and clothed. So, this parenting supplement does not solve the problem of financial support to a family that gets a second, third or fourth child, because all of these families live very badly and all of these families, which is given on behalf of one-time assistance, will spend on what's already been spent in the family -- it's paying back debts, paying off electricity and all the rest of the cost of life. It also says here that the height of the parental supplement is significant, that it would be taken into consideration in the individual evaluation of the advantages and lack of child birth. This does not solve the problem of the white plague and thus does not solve the problem of the fall of the ethnicity of the Serb people. I'm sure that's not the case. It says that it will act psychologically positive, not only as any new measure that is introduced into the system, but also through the individual receiving a certain amount of money at the time of birth, rather than receiving it in small amounts over a number of years. That's not true. It's better that the child's allowance was bigger, that the family knows that there's one decent child's allowance for every child, that it has it on a regular basis, and that it's a safe source of income. Because I already said, what you get once, it's spent for other purposes, certainly not for the child's equipment, certainly not for his schooling and certainly not for his advancement in childhood. So it's not good. And it's not a good thing the state decided to make a census of 2,750 dinars per member of the family. What's going on? If even both parents work, (which is rare in Serbia, but let's say they do), and they have 6,000 dinars, that's 12,000 dinars, and if there are four in the family, that means two parents and two children, that's 12 divided into four, 3,000 dinars. Such a family, unfortunately, has no right to a child's allowance. And can he survive with that money? No, I don't. Is that a stimulant for the birth of a third child? It's not. It certainly isn't. Besides, what does a child's allowance to 900 dinars mean? It's 30 marks a month, and under very strict conditions of getting a child's allowance. And what did we get? A few months ago, we spoke here and a mother's allowance and help with the newborn's equipment was adopted. It's going to end today. Why? It just means that the promoter, or the government, is doing a confusing job and it's acting confusingly, when only in a few months it changes things. First we adopt a maternal supplement, today we lift it. We're getting compensation for the child's equipment that was born today, and we're canceling that compensation. What does that mean? The spilling from hollow to empty. Here it is said that adapting this measure to social policy requirements will condition the following -- firstly, the financial censorship remains, in order to ensure that children's allowance rights only have lower income families. That's good. That's positive. But, I also believe, from the example I cited, that 2,800 dinars per member of the family are very little and is not stimulating for the birth of a third child. It really isn't. That's why I believe, Madam Minister, that you've missed your historic chance to present to us today a law that would really lead this country to fight the white plague. Because the danger of the white plague is great. We may not see it at this time, because we are busy with other problems, but it is a silent war that has been fought against the Serbian nation for years, a war that we will lose if this country does not deal with our enemy, enemy of the present and future -- with the white plague, with the fall of birth. By law, we will not solve this problem and therefore, and only for these reasons, the Serbian Unity Party will vote against this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19526	Do any of the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? Here's a word from MP Radojko Petric, representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19527	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, Madam Minister, I think that at the end of this debate we have in principle convinced ourselves that this proposal for a law on financial support for the family with children means a step back from the current Law on Social Care for Children. Excepting the parental supplement, which is introduced as a new measure of helping a family with two to four children, which is an incentive measure for the population and the instrument of population policy, other provisions in the good part represent a deterioration of the situation so far. Instead of improving conditions to meet the basic needs of children, new restrictions and restrictions are introduced. Instead of covering all families with children with population policy measures, or at least a larger number, the government's proposal is to significantly reduce the number. Instead of providing more resources for these purposes, they are planned at the current level, in fact, in a smaller way, when we look back at all the regulations brought by this authority, which indirectly affect the reduction of the security of funds to help families with children. Why is it proposed to abolish the mother's supplement? The right to a maternal supplement was given to every single mother who was not in a working relationship, meaning she was not employed; she had the right to have the first three children in the family, and for 365 days after the birth of a child. Well, how to help families with children in the country, where no one is employed. Let's keep that maternal supplement, it'll certainly reflect positively on the overall state. He pays at the height of a child's allowance for a third child. As the government has now proposed, the child's supplement is 900 dinars per month, totaling 10,800 dinars in 12 months. These are relatively modest means, but for a family where a mother is unemployed, it means a lot. This maternal supplement for an unemployed mother also means a lot psychologically, to see that, besides family, motherhood also values society as a whole. Why is it proposed to remove aid for newborn equipment? That assistance was paid to families for the first three children. The payment was made once, at the birth of the child, in a modest amount, about 3,800 dinars. And the payment of the child's allowance introduces new restrictions, increases the censorship for the right to do so. What does it mean? The projected limit of 2,750 dinars per member? Can a four-member family with two children and 11,000 dinars each month meet the basic needs of children? It's like the government closes its eyes to the fact that a large number of workers are out of a job. Why aren't these families supposed to keep you at least entitled to a child's allowance? Given the economic situation of the largest number of families with children, it is necessary to predict that a child’s supplement, as it was a few years ago, belongs to a child not only until 19, but 26 years old, if it is in regular schooling, if it is in studies, in higher school or in college. No one wants to create such a condition that only children of wealthy parents can be educated at higher schools and universities. Why is it that, in terms of helping a family with children, it is not proposed to abolish taxes on children's supplies, start with diapers and basic equipment to children's clothes, shoes and school supplies. Why is payment of the parental allowance provided only for families who exercise the right to health care through the Republic Health Insurance Office? What to do with the unemployed in the families and the families in the village. Particular attention deserves to better regulate the right to financial support for families for the first child. Currently, such families in Serbia have 400,000. It is illogical not to foresee payment of the parental allowance for the first child. That anomaly in the proposal really needs to be corrected. Well, it's been known that the first child's family needs the biggest means to get the equipment and everything. It should be assumed that the parental allowance for the first child is at least 30,000 dinars, if for the second 50,000, for the third 90,000 and fourth 120,000; this is before, when it is known that in families with the first child the right to a child's allowance is more difficult, since income is divided into only three members. In terms of the fight against the white plague, the government is failing to abolish the special protection of a third child in a family with three children. According to the current law, it was regulated that, regardless of the material position, a third - child family had the right to all three in jurisdiction. It's meant in the front row for a child's allowance. At the same time, I recall that the Labour Act also introduced a restrictive measure at the birth of a third child, in terms of reducing maternity leave due to child care from 25 months to only 12. There is no justification for the government's approach, which excludes specific stimulating measures to stimulate the natural growth of the population in the areas of municipalities, or parts of municipalities with a negative rate of natural growth. This has been particularly taken into account by the Socialists and has been applied to the acquisition of children's allowances, mothering accessories and help to equip newborns, and in the first instance it was for the third and fourth children. The government's proposal to exercise the right of financial support to families with children is not acceptable to influence incomes such as compensation for other people's care and assistance, compensation in the event of job leaveovers, means cancellation by the employer, compensation for physical damage, material security from the field of social protection, social programmes and others. It is also restrictive that the condition of the right to financial support of the family with children is prescribed by the lack of a large area of agricultural land. It is particularly unfair that there is no difference in the quality of the land and where it is located, which is the class and whether the land is in the mountainous and mountainous areas or in the plainland area. It would be like if you prescribed a census if you had to have some amount of metal without anyone asking the question of which is metal, whether it's steel, iron, or gold. Yet too many cabinet approaches were made to make this regulation. Also, I think it's very important that we finally take a look at what needs to be done after the debate that was held last Thursday and today. The Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, estimating all the prominent facts, points out at the end of the next -- given the extremely serious state of decline in the natural growth of the population under free reproduction, and that this is a strategic issue for Serbia's future, believes this job should be approached more comprehensively and more studioly. More content and scope of the regulation should be made which regulates the wider programme of assistance to families with children and provides adequate sources of funding. That's why the Socialists are proposing today that this bill be withdrawn and made new in terms of forward suggestions.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19528	Do any of the representatives or presidents of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. ) The word has Minister Gordana Matkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19529	Short, before it goes to the vote, to once again highlight the basic elements that cover this law. So, they cover basically four rights first of all: what is related to income compensation during maternity leave and leave because of child care; the parental supplement as one new right, which was all those measures that were populational or had a populational element in the Law on Social Care of Children, concentrated into one right. Of course, we must move within the Budget Law and of course there are no additional means necessary for the implementation of this law, since you as the Assembly voted this Budget Act and then we must stick to its frameworks. What I would especially like to stress in the parenting supplement is that all mothers have the right to it, regardless of whether they are in the country or in the city. Since it has repeatedly insisted on this aspect that mothers who do not work have no income compensation for maternity, since the name of the maternity leave allowance itself implies that the woman has to work, we considered it - given the fact, as the Member of the SPS Parliament group said, that if you are entitled to a maternity allowance, which means that you are an unemployed mother, then it is the amount of 1,100 dinars that is obtained per month - that it is much more important that a one-time measure that implies that, regardless of whether you are in the country or the city, you get 50, or 90, or 120 thousand dinars once. As for what families are going to spend it on, whether it's one-time or multiple tranches, of course it's up to them to make what and how they're going to spend and whether or not they're going to spend on the welfare of the child. When it comes to a child's supplement, what he no longer has, the elements of the population, so it does not increase the amount of child's supplement with an increase in the order of birth in the family, and that means now, above all, the measure of social policy. What is particularly important to emphasize, is that at any time, it means when you can apply for a child's allowance. The solution is not like before, which existed under the Law on Social Care for Children, that you apply only on the basis of the revenues made in the last quarter of the previous year, because for many families, it is a problem if material status changes over the year. Also, they have the right to foster families and families who have adopted children. The amount for single parents, children without parental ageing, children distracted in development, but for foster and foster families is 30% higher and, of course, these amounts are indexed by the cost of living. The last group of measures refers to the compensation of the stay of children in preschool institutions. So, since the population measures, or those that should have a demographic effect, are concentrated in one, in a parenting supplement, then the third child has no earlier right regardless of the material condition of the family. You all know a lot better than I do at the local level, that it happened that people come in a jeep and they exercise the right to a free stay in preschool institutions, that it is really inadmissible in our conditions, although what needs to be compensated by the state doesn't always have to cause a revolution, but that is why it is just important to separate social measures from the scale of population policy. Finally, once again, let me say that it cannot be expected that such a measure that should have demographic effects solves population problems in Serbia, but it is, we are deeply convinced, more effective than those measures that existed in the previous system.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19530	Since there are no more reported for the word, I conclude a principled search and put to the vote the draft law on financial support for the family with children, in principle. For 128, against 55, the abstentions did not vote 17, out of 200 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the draft law on financial support with children, in principle. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Radojko Petric, Joca Arsic and Zivodarka Dacin. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, The Life-giving Dacin.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19531	The Honored Presidency, Madam Ministers, fellow Members of Parliament, on behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment saying that in Article 4(1), in point (2), the following points are deleted: (2) which says - foster benefits; (4) - maternity allowance; (5) - compensation for other people's care and assistance; (6) - compensation for physical damage; (7) - compensation for unemployment; (8) - material security achieved under social protection regulations; (10) - compensation in case of termination of the need for the work of employees due to technological, economic or organisational changes achieved in the year prior to the submission and (11) - compensation on the basis of social programmes. Since we got an explanation on the bench this morning, I have to say that I absolutely cannot accept the argument that the government gave and that the government does not accept the above-mentioned amendment for the reasons that the rights under this law, which are conditioned by the incomes of the family, are rights defined as a social measure, which is aimed at equating inequality in the standard of living of families with children. Here the government again proves that it is actually thinking of itself and its budget, not of children, as this law should have its purpose. Why do I say that - absolutely every one of us knows, if it's a special allowance and a right to compensation for other people's care and help, that these are assets that the family can't define and that it's intended for children, but simply that those missing funds are needed, along with income from the family, to hire a person who can nurse someone. Imagine even someone who is alone, who has no one of his own, so he needs to hire another man and pay him without talking about it if it's a compensation for physical damage. I truly find it inappropriate for this amendment not to be accepted and all of this to be justly protected, that it is too much concern for the children of this government. I appeal indeed to all MPs that by accepting this amendment, as much as they do, they correct the injustices of the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19532	Do any of the authorized participants in the debate want a word? He has the word of deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group, MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19533	The amendment of a group of MPs should be accepted or at least should have been rejected by the government and the priority of the amendment of the group of MPs. She could accept or give her amendment and remove some illogicalities, which would further cause the country's difficult political situation. Namely, the right to a parental allowance is now conditioned by achieving severance in the event of the termination of the need for the work of the employee due to the technological, economic and all other opportunities that take place in the company. And now, imagine a parent, a family fosterer, who runs out of work, taking severances that are most often in the height of 4,000 marks, and that's exactly how much an annual amount for a four-member family that he won't be entitled to that year on a child's allowance. How do you include that computer to calculate exactly in a dinar that all those who are out of a job, because you have no more work for them, because you can't organize a job, lose and the right to a child's allowance? Why don't you tell the workers when they get fired and take severance, why don't you tell them -- here's your severance, but we're just giving you so much to cross the line and that in a year your kids don't have a child's allowance? In that category, you also set up a compensation for physical damage. So you prove that humanity is your last point in the order in which you value people. When a man is disabled, when he is no longer able to attract and when he receives compensation for physical damage, his children cannot exercise the right to a child's allowance. Well, if it's DOS, it's a lot.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19534	Anyone else want a word from an authorized participant? The word has Minister Gordana Matkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19535	If we look at the incomes of the Law on Social Care for Children and what the fees so far have been taken into account, we will see that there is nothing new in this bill. Of course, the fees, all the ones you mentioned, when it came to those incomes that were appreciated in the adoption of a solution to the child's allowance, existed in the earlier law. What's the fact that it makes sense for some of these revenues to be excluded, but of course, what's the problem here is that, unfortunately, in different ways, people were entitled to certain benefits, which, as we all know, did not always mean compensation for what it stands for in the title of compensation. So if in this country you really knew that it was something about physical damage and that it was something of a disability fee, if all the people who really had the right to do it could just do it, then we could just turn some of that off and turn it off. However, as you know, solutions have been made in different ways and in this, you will surely agree, there have been many gaps, and then simply those families, where such incomes do not exist, would be placed in an unequal position. When it comes to severance and compensation for social programmes, besides the fact that they also existed in previous laws, families that work perhaps sometimes for a lower salary compared to what the severances are would be in an unequal position. Therefore, we went on to take care of all incomes and expenses. As you know, about 600,000 children in Serbia are receiving a child's allowance. It's a condition that has been inherited since 2000. It's a very large number, and the fact is that little shifts in seeing what incomes are, what censors are, can lead to big changes in that sense that you bring someone into a more or less equal position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19536	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? There is a word from MP Radojko Petric, a representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19537	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, dear Madam Minister, I think that the explanation given by Zivodarka Dacin really deserves attention, and that was then explained by MP Nikolic, that the amendment really needs to be accepted. Because how to defend in public that the right to help a family with children affects if someone has a difficult patient in the house and receives compensation for care and assistance, and we all know that the care and assistance compensation is insufficient, plus other problems that have been made for such patients. Or the question of compensation for physical damage. It's not at all pleasant to bring it up, but let's take the case that the worker lost his hand, gets some compensation on that basis, can't hurt, and his other neighbor or friend can do something about it in the afternoon, and get something else from the income, etc. Now, that affects, because he has, on that basis, exercised a right or a social right, so on the one hand, he gets help, as a family that deserves social assistance -- no one wants it, every family has dignity and would always give up and help, not to receive it -- now on those criteria, some help is provided, and on the other hand it is taken much more, because it does not get the right to provide support on these other grounds, which it would otherwise have. Therefore, I find the reasons really convincing, that this amendment should be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19538	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I would like to put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by a group of Members. For 55, against 105, two abstentions, 39 of the 201 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19539	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the SRS Parliament Club has submitted an amendment to Article 4, which I will explain, first of all, because in the principle debate we have indicated that we are committed to supporting each child, regardless of the material status of the family, and of course to further stimulating families with children whose social situation is such that this requires and especially children who are disabled or distracted in development. I therefore believe that this is a key amendment that could correct this injustice, if we really want to influence the country's population policy and then each parent has the right to a parental supplement, whether first, second, third, fourth or fifth children. Because, don’t forget, many parents give up parenting because of the economic opportunities in which they are located, the unresolved housing issue, for example, is without employment, and they are similar or skips that fertile age when it is healthiest to give birth. If they start at the age of 35 to give birth, of course they only decide on one child that we don't stimulate by this law. By amendment to Article 4, we have proposed that these incomes affecting the exercise of the rights provided for in these laws, which are the remuneration of income during maternity leave, the absence of child care, the parental supplement and the child's allowance, that these incomes are the most important, affecting the exercise of the right to support materially threatened families with children, families with children who have been distracted in development and children without parental ageing, and that they are determined as the promoter predicted in the average monthly amount based on the income achieved in the previous three months when the application was made. You see, the parental supplement, which here seems to be a more significant number, is one-time giving. For another child, 50,000 dinars. And you all know, either you're a parent, or you're grandparents, how much it costs when a newborn comes into the house to buy everything you need; and even if it's a winter period, if you pay the electricity the way we pay it -- if the bill is 3,500 dinars, if you spend so much money, you end up paying 7,700 because they're billing the electricity, it means they steal it and add a tax to the 20% -- so mostly parents will spend that money to keep the children or a small child as much as they need, and it won't affect that it's an important assumption that the state is showing gratitude to their parents and that they appreciate that they decided to give birth another child. I understand this parental supplement as one such act of state: thank you for producing another Serbian, which has us more in one, two, or hundreds in one day. I don't know if it's a failure, I don't think it is, but in these incomes listed here in Article 4(2), subpoint (4), we also have a maternal supplement, which is no longer available, as well as (5), compensation for other people's care and assistance. You know, you're here to calculate the total incomes, based on which parents have the right to say child support, here in Article 2, you said who is considered a family, or that the family in terms of this law is made up of parents, guardians, foster parents, adopters and children, and relatives in the first line, and in the second degree of kinship. There are many families in our country, many young people who cannot stand alone and live with their parents. These parents usually have poor pensions, but these poor pensions also affect these total incomes, which, of course, reduce the number of children’s allowance users. Even if they are sick, so they have compensation for other people's care and help, it's something more important for them, but they also have the cost of other people's care and help, it can't be a criterion for parents being punished for not having the right to a child's allowance. Not to mention the compensation for physical damages and this severance in the event of an end to the need for work, which Mr Tomislav Nikolic spoke of. So I ask you to think a little bit about the amendment to Article 4, that the government accepts it and that we correct the injustice, if we want to achieve the goal, which is supposed to be the very name of the law here, which is -- the proposal for a law on the financial support of families with children. I claim they're not supporting families with children, but possibly families that are socially endangered, and that's restrictive. It would be good if the proponent in the explanation told us how much this family is now using this right and that we could compare it after this law has been passed. I claim that the government's expenditures, i.e. The budgets for these purposes will be smaller, that families will not have the essential support of the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19540	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19541	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, who follows the debate carefully, and I don't see much among you who will vote for the law to have attention, must be further explained why the amendment has been submitted. In fact, the SRS is trying to amend the bill to implement part of its programme, which is clear as regards children's supplements: a child's supplement to every child; Article 4 provides for additional incentives for families who have children, but are socially endangered, children who are distracted in development and children who are without parental ageing. Since you will not accept amendments that these sub-points, which are 12, are reduced to those that really represent some income in the family, then at least accept that they are criteria for additional financial support to families with children, i.e. children on three grounds, and that there is no question at all whether each child will have a child's allowance or not. Here, namely, the proposer comes into contradiction, jumps into his own mouth because by an emergency procedure he asks to pass a law that he himself says doesn't make any difference, let's say in one of the most important members, in a member who determines whether someone will exercise the right or not, then everything is technique and calculation. Proposer of a bad solution to this law, just because there were bad solutions in the previous law as well. I can really expect the promoter to schedule a agenda item -- criticism of the child welfare law, and then hear criticisms from the government and the opposition representatives, to split up and do something serious and useful. But to consider here a new bill and to suggest that more than enough good to explain that it was in the previous law, the National Assembly cannot accept it. That's why this five-square stands above the president of the National Assembly, because your argument -- there was also in the previous regime. Whether it's going to change or not, that's a special question. If it changes, if the social care of children is changed, it was not good, it was communist, ideological, the bandits were doing it, then give the law from which it will be seen that it is no longer ideological, that criminals are no longer doing it, that bandits are not doing it, and that children need Serbia. During one of the previous sessions, we heard the argument that this law did not help the Natalie. It doesn't mean anything. And here, in an explanation, the promoter says financial support still shows that it can best help speed up the birth rate. If some law hasn't helped, we're looking for solutions to fix it by helping, not sticking to the old solutions. By not accepting the amendments to this article, you claim that the family, which is supported by the country under a special social programme, must report those funds to assess whether they will now receive a child's allowance for children or not. You know who covers such social programs - the one who doesn't have anything. Now, when the state provides him with a certain amount or otherwise helps him, it enters the basis for determining whether he has the right to a child's allowance or not. Well, it really doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19542	Do any of the other authorised students in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) I put the amendments to Article 4 to the vote. For 43, against 103, a abstentioned one, was not voted 45, out of 192 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 5th amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Toma Busetic, Joca Arsic and Nebojsa Jovic and National MP Natasa Jovanovic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Do the applicants want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19543	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 5. It's a bill of law. This article reads: "The law provided for by this law, which is conditioned by a material position, may be effected if the applicant, or members of his family, does not possess monetary and other liquid assets (actions, bonds and other securities of value) of more than 30 children's allowances per family member at the time of submission of claims". The explanation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, with the refusal of amendments to delete Article 5, which is very controversial, and I intend to explain it in detail to you through a realistic picture of life, not through writing laws and articles of law that have nothing to do with reality, is that the Government does not accept the above-mentioned amendment for the reasons that the rights provided for by this bill, which are conditioned by material position, rights which are primarily the dimension of the social measure, so a child's supplement. And having money and other liquid assets (actions, bonds and securities of value) improves the material position of the family. Imagine, that's why these people, who own these papers, can't exercise their rights. If the minister were "Alice in a Wonderland Land" and you believed in all those lies and delusions that you daily place from the display of state television and other electronic and printed media, perhaps one of the families in Serbia would believe that something like this is possible to work in Serbia, under your authority, the securities market of value; that it is possible that someone is receiving a dividend for actions he has entered in a company because he has been doing a number of years - 30 years and more of the average in enterprises that have performed the first round of property transformation - and in 35 years the hard-earned actions of a working internship in these companies that have now failed or are ready to go to bankruptcy proceedings, this entry of action is from 12 to 15 thousand German marks. Do any of you, I believe that you can do it, because you can believe everything, and even if you have so much insolence and that you convince people it's true, but if anyone in Serbia can believe that these actions that have this fictional value, the paperwork, from 12 to 15 thousand marks, mean something to someone. Can anyone believe what's going on with the bonds for what's-his-name? The old foreign savings, is it even possible that the amount of old foreign savings and pensioners -- which you've had enough with pension cuts only for January of 12.7%, and you intend to continue to lower the amount of pensions through maybe even higher percentages, I don't know what's going to come to mind -- is anyone able to believe that all these people have some kind of scale, as our people would say, of these bonds and securities of value. It can't, because the securities market doesn't work, it can't because they don't get paid any dividends. Then one quite logical question arises -- how could the bill promoter offer such a thing to the National Assembly for adoption, and to know what additional incomes they are, that the minister explained to us, that the calculation of the material position of the family, which these fictitious papers possess, was improved when they are not receiving the dividend, and that is precisely when the percentage based on which they will account for the average income per household member, because you have given this limit here that it is 2,750 dinars, is also mentioned by Mrs Gordana Pop-Lazic, so that they can exercise the right to a child's allowance. How now will you one worker from any catering, hotel company in Serbia, from a cement store that you privatized for a much smaller value measured in tens of millions of dollars, explain that he can't make a child's allowance because he owns bonds and securities of value somewhere at home, which are worth nothing. They will not be worth anything under your authority at all because, not only in those companies where your personal interest is not yours, and above all Zoran Djindjic and Aleksandr Vlahovic, you stop the process of property transformation, and in others, which are both profitable, you release your tentacles and grab for yourself. How, then, will you explain it to a number of deplorable workers in Serbia, those who allegedly possess something and don't actually own anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19544	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Toma Bushetic, on behalf of the applicants of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19545	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 5; I believe that this member should be deleted. Why does he need to be deleted? Because the provisions of this article are very restrictive. They are restrictive, because bonds and actions can often only have formal value; and bonds, and securities of value and action have no practical value. I think that's why we should delete this member. He is in some way a little reminded of other rights, rights, for example, related to the compensation of other people’s care and assistance, although these rights primarily apply to PIO. We have a very common case that persons who are very good in financial terms cannot exercise these rights for some reason. On the other hand, those who need the help and need it, again for formal reasons, missing documents, for example, do not exercise those rights. On the other hand, I believe that this member should be deleted for reasons, which is a series of members in this law that are very restrictive. For example, a member of 19 who speaks of a child's allowance is also very restrictive, because it is said that all those who have income of more than 2,750 dinars, those who have income of more than 3% of the average cadastrian income on land of one hectare or on a 50 acres garden, do not have the right to use this right (and it is a child's allowance). With all this in mind, that a number of censorships exist in the next members, certainly this censorship relating to Article 5 should be eliminated in such a way as to delete Article 5.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19546	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? Yes, the Messenger of the people Tomislav Nikolic, then the Messenger of the people Radojko Petric.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19547	It is obvious that all campaigns of this part of DOS offering this bill will focus on children. Therefore, this entire caravan that visits Serbia (who, to God, is on the right path), is taken exclusively with children, and children in primary school, underage children with whom some prime minister discusses and decides. That is why this law should pass without the debate of opposition MPs, and the right debate on this law begins when journalists begin to praise, celebrate and raise him to heaven. Let's take a closer look at this article that the MPs of the SRS are asking for to be deleted. The rights provided for in this law which are subject to a material position (almost all conditioned by a material position) may be realised if the applicant, or members of his family, does not have any money (I am disposing of the part of which Natasa Jovanovic spoke, which is shares, bonds and other securities of value), in value greater than 30 children's allowances per family member. I always thought that having money was not only at home but also in the bank, a secret, as well as a secret role. Now the legislator is telling us openly - if you have money, you won't have a child's allowance. I ask the legislator, how will he determine who has the money? I know that it is very intriguing that the governor of the NBJ said, that he expects that Serbian citizens, they are saddened, robbed, left behind, by the previous government, poor, poor, 9 billion marks should be replaced, and about 5.6 billion are replaced by 1 May of this year. Then you wanted to think -- 9 billion marks -- that's 270 billion dinars, if there are two million families in Serbia, that would be about 135,000 dinars per family, and there's no family in Serbia, the average, and we're always talking about averages, they're not going to have a child's allowance. It's all nice, but I'm convinced that you can't break into people's houses, shake out straws, cut mattresses, push against the walls of hosts and children to find out where their money is and how much money they have. Another way for one who runs the rule of law to determine how many citizens of money they have at home, I don't see. Another way for one who runs the state to determine how many citizens of money they have in banks, I don't see, except that the bank gentlemen print documents about their savings and deliver directly to the minister who cares about families and our children. Except that the gendarmes, the red berets (no longer have the police to do anything), get the districts, the houses, marked with a cross, whose house they're going to break into, search, and whose house they won't; raid them, and determine how much money they have. I'm sorry we didn't do that, that maybe we weren't even ready. Now I know very well whose houses we should have broken into in time; I guarantee you, we'll be in when we win.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19548	The word is from MP Radojko Petrovic, representative of the SPS parliamentary group. Is there anyone else answering for word after the MP? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19549	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, dear Madam Minister, I really think there are a lot of reasons why the MPs of the SPS and the SRS have tabled a motion to delete this member. We heard the explanations. I want to point out a few more reasons why this amendment should be accepted and deleted by this member. So first, let's start with what's the amount? That's the amount of 30 children's allowances per family member, so that's 37,000. In other words, for a three-member family, that's 84,000. That's the value it takes to buy one room, i.e. furniture to equip the living room or bedroom, average furniture. Under this law, this family is considered to be wealthy and therefore should not use this right to encourage the family to be helped. I think it's absurd and unsustainable. Second question, how do you control if anyone has that money? Are we going to stimulate savings or destimulate? All over the world, savings are stimulated to raise funds to invest in the economy, in development, etc. With this measure, we destimulate savings, because who will take money to the bank and save the most money and save it -- when it comes to mass, it is a significant item for encouraging economic development. With this we take one step, to simply destimulate the savings, so that no one takes to the bank to save. Next, are we going to make a difference if someone has the same income, so someone's a good host, economics and keeps something to save? And the other one spends, goes to the bar, drinks, etc. Second, how to know which bank a citizen saves money in. There are more banks in every city and in a small town. How do we check out which bank he's saving? Secondly, whether we take into account that savings and stakes are guaranteed, in terms of secrecy. To get information on whether anyone has an account and how much there is, it can only be sought by a court unless it wants to change the rules. So we want to follow what exists all over the world, and that was the practice so far, that the balance in the bank account could only be obtained at the court's request. Please, let's see how much the secret of saving is guaranteed. Take, for example. in the world when you want to go to the bank, to the counter, that the line has been pulled within two metres of a counterman, so only one person can approach and generalize with a bank clerk, that the one behind him can't hear whether he's raising money, whether he's paying money, how much money he has in his account. It goes as far as when you buy a ticket at a train station the next passenger is two metres away from the counter, that he doesn't know if you're traveling to Podgorica, Saturday or Nis, and we want to know now what citizen has savings and everything else. I think this is really absurd and unsustainable. I won't talk about shares; that's said -- just on dividends, income that comes from profit, based on what a man has from action, shares, that's fine, but taxing someone who only has paper that doesn't bring any benefit -- it's also absurd. That's why I really think it would be good for Mrs. Minister to stand up and say that the government accepts this amendment, to delete this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19550	Anyone else want a word? The word has Minister Gordana Matkovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19551	Since these are the rights established by the material position of the family, you cannot take just what the current income is. It has to be taken into account what the property is. And, in a certain way, if you own these funds, if you own value shares, we all know what we're moving towards, and we know what it means if there's a worker of some factory that owns a stock of value that can sell on the market, of course the regulation will determine what it really means, as a guide to those services that collect this evidence, but it's absolutely certain that it shouldn't be placed in the same position as a family that has nothing and that family that owns something that can sell or cash. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19552	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 50, against 88, the abstentions, did not vote 53, out of the 191 MP present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Together, MPs Joca Arsic, Zivodarka Dacin, Sreten Mitrovic and Dragan Jovanovic submitted to the 9th amendment. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Do any of the applicants of the amendment want a word? Here, the word is Sreten Mitrovica, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19553	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 9(1) to add a new point after point 6: "7) Cost of stay in preschool for each third and fourth children regardless of the material position of the family". This solution proposed by the amendment presents another incentive measure to increase natural growth, while at the same time supporting families with three or four children, regardless of the material status of the family. So I suggest that this amendment be accepted, because we know that there are very few families that today, when it comes to funding school children, can not feel it, especially if they previously have two children or three children in school, or that the fourth child, who is in preschool, is not in a difficult material situation. So I propose that this amendment be accepted, just because the previous law also applied, that the third and fourth children had free funding in preschool. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19554	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Here's a word from MP Borislav Pelevic, president of the Serb Unity Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19555	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Unity Party will support this amendment by a group of MPs, because we believe it represents a real contribution to the growth of the ethnicity of the Serbian people. I was already talking about the threat of the white plague. If the legislator accepts this amendment, I think we will give it a modest, small, but still contribute to the growth of the Serbian people in Serbia, and that is why the Serbian Unity Party will vote for this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19556	Anyone else want a word? Here you are, Madam Minister Gordana Matkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19557	When we formulated who should have a stay fee, therefore a free stay from the aspect of parents for children in preschool institutions, it was primarily considered to be children for whom it is important to go to preschool without otherwise going unless the state compensated for those costs. These are: or children who are in an invisible material position, so parents would not be able to isolate it; or children without parental ageing, for whom it is particularly important to be integrated into peer groups; or children who are heavily distracted in development, for which it is also particularly important to be involved in pre-school education. In this way, we actually felt that the democratic effect of this measure, which once existed, is small, because those families that are not poor do not have that problem, for them it is not a problem to pay for the child's stay in preschool, and for the child himself, so if it does not come from these families that I have listed, it is not of particular importance and it is not the ones that the state should encourage to be involved in peer groups.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19558	I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the Members of Parliament to plead with the vote. For 48, against 97, the abstentioned were not voted 49, out of a total of 194 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Petar Misic submitted an amendment to Article 9, which proposed adding a new position 4. The government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs adopted this amendment, by proposing that the amendment should be carried out by putting the "municipality" stuck behind the wording and adding the words "City" to the text of the amendment, which was agreed by the applicant and the representative of the Government. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee accept the legal and technical order proposed by the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs? Since we don't have a present in the O.R. or vice president of the Legislative Committee, I'm asking if the applicant of the amendment wants a word. If the President or rapporteur of the Legislative Committee accepted this legal and technical order, the amendment would become an integral part of the bill. Now, let's go to the discussion procedure in detail. Do any of the authorized participants want a word? No, I don't. I would like to put the amendments to article 9 of MP Petar Misic, which is added to the new position 4, which was adopted by the Government and the Committees. For 123, against two, abstentions, did not vote 72, a total of 197 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has by majority accepted the amendment to Article 9. I note that the same MP has submitted another amendment to Article 9, contrary to the provisions of Article 142(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, according to which the MP can no longer submit amendments to the same member of the bill, so that the National Assembly on the amendment cannot be declared. National MP Tomislav Nikolic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19559	I was expecting a debate on the amendment to article 9 of the same MP, to point to this breach of the Rules of Procedure. You've really pointed out a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but I can't accept your argument. It is not a session of the National Assembly or a place, nor a time for determining which amendment can be included in the procedure and which it does not. That's what happens when the MP submits an amendment. Let me tell you about the case of the Serbian Radical Party. Each time the Service invites us and points out to us, even to what we are entitled to because such a right has already been exercised for other parliamentary groups, that the Rules of Procedure has been injured, and then we need to define whether we are going to bring it together into one amendment, we give up or what is going to happen. Your service has missed two amendments from one MP to the same member of the bill, and you are now reporting that one amendment has been accepted, the other cannot enter the procedure, and the Government has pleaded on it. Will you stop playing the National Assembly session already? They cannot enter into the procedure of two amendments, not even the same parliamentary groups as one member, let alone one MP to the same member. Now that the procedure is complete, it's over, when one amendment is accepted, you say for another that it cannot enter the procedure. If there is no one to do this to you, please contact the Serbian Radical Party, we will give you a good lawyer to always warn you on time, that your authority, the authority of the one who runs the National Assembly sessions, is not at stake.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19560	Information on the second amendment of the People's Parliament and cannot be subject to the procedure, I am obliged as chairman to give Article 84(2) so that there is no lack of information, and that all MPs can exercise their rights, duties and obligations. The People's Messenger asks how we know who he is. These are the rights, obligations and duties of the chairman, and that is why I am informing the National Assembly. I thank the People's MP who wants me to live for 1,000 years, together we'll all be together. The 10th Amendment was submitted by National Envoy Zlatan Jovanovic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The word is given by MP Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19561	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm sorry that Mrs Matkovic came out and isn't here right now, because I have a concrete proposal. I propose that this law be withdrawn from the procedure, how to complete and that one more quality text be returned to the Assembly for consideration and eventual adoption. Before I refer to the amendment that I have submitted to Article 10, I will briefly refer to Article 6 which has passed, but I simply have to refer to it because this article lists the conditions which must be met by the potential beneficiary of these rights. Article 6(2) states: "Extremely from Article 1 of this Article, the rights provided for by this law, which are subject to material conditions, may be realised if the applicant requests, or members of his family, who earn income from agriculture do not have fixed property, except for the appropriate living space that corresponds to the needs of the individual, or family, other necessary economic buildings in the agricultural household and land in the area of up to one hectare per member of the family". Imagine now a family in passive areas around Užica, and there are many such areas in Serbia, for example in the area of Priboj, Prepolje, Nova Varosha, Bajina Basta and other places, imagine a family that has four hectares of unprocessed land, pastures and such a family that has no other incomes cannot exercise the rights that this law gives. It cannot be achieved because it has a surface area of four hectares of land, and I note that it is an infertile, infertile land. I think it's absurd and that this law, for those reasons, besides others already mentioned here, should be withdrawn and completed. As for the amendment to Article 10, which I submitted to the Serbian Radical Party, I must quote Article 10 so that citizens can understand what this is all about. Namely, it's about the area -- the income compensation during maternity leave, the absence from work for the care of the child and the absence from work for the special care of the child. It is one of the rights offered by this law, namely, to be realized. Article 10 states: "A child's salary during maternity leave, leave of work for child care and leave due to special care is achieved by: 1) persons employed by legal and physical persons (hereinafter referred to as employees of the employer) and 2) persons who carry out their own work." My amendment envisions adding a new point 3 after point 2), which reads "a person who is not in a working relationship". In other words, the Serbian Radical Party wants to avoid discrimination committed by this particular member, to make this right both for unemployed persons and for those living in the country live on agriculture. I would understand this proposed member that we in this country have a labour deficit to punish those who do not want to be employed, and they have opportunities and conditions for that. On the contrary, we in this country do not have a labour deficit, but on the contrary, we have huge redundancies of labour, which are particularly expressed after the DOS's arrival in power, by firing 1,000 workers from their jobs. Imagine, one of the rights this law offers cannot be fulfilled by those who are not in a working relationship. It is also particularly important to stress that this right of maternity leave benefits cannot be achieved by women in the country. We should especially encourage women in the country, women living from agriculture in these households, to commit to the birth of children, to strengthen rural families. Our villages are relaxed, extinct, we cannot resuscitate them in any other way, and we must stimulate it, and we, on the contrary, better put forward by the legislator of this law, do the opposite, and leave the women in the country without this fee. I know what Mrs. Matkovic's answer will be. The answer will be that the parental supplement that this law introduces as a single newspaper, is a much larger addition and much more significant means predicts and that they are intended for both these women in the country and the unemployed. However, I do not accept such an answer, because it is simply not clear to me why this discrimination, division of employees and unemployed, is being provided in the budget of the Republic of Serbia under Article 32 of this law. So, they are not allocated by the employer to employees, but by the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and they are paid by farmers and all the other citizens of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19562	Anyone else want a word? There is a word from MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19563	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, looking dryly, looking closely, formalistly at it, the government can give this kind of response to this amendment. Namely, the fee of unrealized income during maternity leave or during child care should indeed be provided, it refers to those who work. But the question is, are we just formalist looking at the problem in the country or do we want to solve one problem? How many women are in the country that don't work, and they may be doing it by the very day of delivery and helping their family achieve higher incomes from the country; how many women are in cities that don't work, and make incomes, depending on education. Someone deals with bookkeeping, someone works at a store, someone on the street sells cigarettes. There are many young women who sell goods on the street and thus help their family's budget, have no salary, have no income, and mothers are when they give birth. So what now? She can't help her family anymore, she brought a citizen to Serbia, and you say -- well, since you weren't in labor, you don't have any maternity leave, you don't have a salary, just because you didn't work until the moment you gave birth. Now another question is being asked - and what about the family where the mother doesn't work, the father is employed? As you know, a parent, any parent, can be absent from work for the care of a child. Whether the employer will tell the parent - you can't make a fee for not working for a child's care, your wife is unemployed. Shall we further discriminate against a woman who doesn't work, in every way possible? To feel useless, superfluous, just because she gave birth to one, and for God's sake, two, three children. These children are not the joy and wealth of the family they found themselves in. They are joy and wealth for Serbia, and no matter where the family, in the families of the poor, rich, are in the Serbian, Hungarian, Russian, Slovak, any family. The child is a joy for the country in which he was born. Are we going to have mothers having children? We can't provide all mothers with a job, but we can provide rights that won't discriminate as a woman, they won't feel ashamed, because for a time it can't hurt. Everyone in the house is looking at her across the street. It'll still turn out that kid's an extra burden to the family. His diapers must be provided, his room must be warmed up, so when the books, which are taxed, don't ask yourself, why are there no children in Serbian families? Then don't ask why in the village of Bozurnja, under Oplenca, in one of the richest forest villages, four children go to school, from first to eighth grade? Don't ask yourself anything then, but how it is, how the water mills, let the bread be made of such flour. But you have a chance, and I'm saying this for your own good, you don't believe me, that I wish you well, but I'm so raised that I want everyone well. You make good laws, you make a bill that we Serbian radicals can also claim is what we are, that we vote, that Serbia will be grateful for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19564	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? There's a minister's word, Mrs. Gordana Matkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19565	This is not a maternity leave fee, this is a benefit during maternity leave. So, since it's not a maternity leave fee, it's a salary fee, the labour law makes it possible for a member of the 69th to make a profit fee to only be paid by a person who's employed. Therefore, these members of the law refer to the Labour Act, which formulate when absentance can be obtained, and this law regulates the amount of compensation for this absence from work. According to the Labour Act, this can only apply to employees. If it's about demographic aspects, then there's a parenting supplement, which isn't about working relationships. Since the profit is related to a working relationship, then that salary can only be provided for the working mother. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19566	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) You have no right to a replica, the minister has given an explanation for a member of the law that defends, to remain as he is. [[An emissary from the O.R. is looking for a replica.]] She didn't say anything false or offensive. If there are no more entries for the word, I am putting the amendment to article 10 on the vote and I am asking the MPs to plead. For 39, against 104 abstentions, he did not vote 51, out of a total of 194 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Joca Arsic, Zivodarka Dacin and Dragan Jovanovic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word on behalf of a group of MPs? There's a word from MP Joca Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19567	The esteemed presidency, respected Madam Ministers, respected fellow MPs, was submitted by a group of SPS MPs to Article 11. The first position of that member is: "The remuneration for a person referred to in Article 10(1) of this Act shall be determined at the rate of full-time earnings and the standard effect that the person would have to do and no more than five average monthly earnings in the Republic. "The amendment of a group of MPs is that behind the word "work" puts an end, and the rest of the text is deleted. So this restriction is deleted, up to a maximum of five average monthly earnings in the Republic. We have made an amendment for this reason that these profits, i.e. profits, should not be limited. The reason for the government and the ministry is that this amendment is rejected, because contributions and taxes are limited by a five-fold amount of average monthly earnings. So it stays as it was given in the bill. We believe that this argument, or this view, is not good, that this fee should not be limited, and that tax and contribution are fivefold, is also not good. We also had similar amendments when the law that regulates this matter was passed, which is called upon by the Government and which is incorporated into the position of the 1st of this 11th member, so that the part about collecting income is identical in this section as regards compensation. We think, since it is often explained that the budget does not have enough resources to pay and service budget commitments, that by adopting this law, there will be no (in reason) more interventions than it has been so far, on the basis of the rights provided for by this law, or the proposal for this new law will not be greater, so to speak, taking from the budget register. We believe that this part of the amendment should be accepted -- that it is not limited, and that it also needs this restriction, which is completely pointless, that someone who has received over a five-fold amount, over 30 and a few thousand, not to be taxed, should be deleted, and that anyone who has incomes is taxed, as many as there are. If there's no limit to taxing income, then we're going to put all the people who make money in an equal position. Thus, one who earns up to 30,000 dinars pays contributions, who earns more than 30,000 dinars does not pay contributions and taxes on his salary, or pays up to 30,000 dinars, and over 30,000 or 32,000 dinars do not pay any contributions at all. We don't think that's correct, that we stimulate those who have, not stimulate those who don't. For these reasons, we believe that this part should not be stimulated that it should be applied in good time and that this part that limits taxes and contributes to the change of laws is not limited, but that in such a way it can be a part, not all of it, but one solid part of the right of these fees can be compensated from those incomes that are certainly not small, and there are a large number of people who have these profits, and I don't know what hurts and this assembly. It is certainly not in this part to the limit, up to five average personal incomes, it is far below, and nothing will cost us any MPs this taxation, but those who have more. In that sense, we have suggested that this should not be restricted. And you accept this discussion as one initiative to amend tax regulations so that this part of the income, the part of taxation, you don't limit it at all in this revenue section. Thank you very much, and I hope you accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19568	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the parliamentary group, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19569	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have been informed by the representatives of the promoters that this is a social law, that they want to help families whose financial support is necessary, and here at the interpretation of the amendments, our amendments to this article, we find out that in fact it was not important for the legislator at all. The bill's promoter says that the salary during maternity leave will have a face that has a five-fold profit from the average income in the Republic. We ask for this fee for an unemployed person, for one who has neither a single, nor a double, nor a triple, nor a quadruple, nor a fivefold profit, and by law there will be a face that has a 20-fold salary. He pays for the five-time amount of contributions and you will pay him maternity benefits, a leave of work for the care of a child, although it is obvious that he, not that he doesn't need financial support, is entitled to a working relationship, but that he doesn't need it as much as he doesn't work, who didn't have any pre-birth and who won't have any receipts after childbirth. Indeed, the Republic of Serbia's budget is minimally set aside for these compensations. They can't compare to percentages for police equipment, financial police, or who knows what services. Maybe even the micro costs are relative to those costs, and maybe it's five armored cars a year, so you can realize all the rights we're looking for in these amanacies. That's what hurts me the most. I'm aware that big amounts, that it's something that the budget can't bear, so none of us would be crazy enough to ask for something that the state can't stand. This country will soon have no pensioners, 63 years of life, which of us will enjoy the right to retire, whether or not, 65 you have provided for in your law, and even when you reduce their pensions like this, as you are now 12% down, and the brand devalued in Serbia, apparently one channel through which it has run out of the budget slowly drys up, closes, pensions more, by a year - two under your control, there will be no cost. Em's people are going to starve, but he can't wait to retire. Let's reroute it, pour that stream into the child's supplements, to invest in children. Maybe it's inhumane to say it, but I'm always more interested in investing in kids than in retirement.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19570	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? If no one's answering for a word, I'll put the amendment to the vote. For 42, against 109 abstentions, there was no vote of 45, out of 196 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been adopted. The 11th amendment, with a correction, was filed by MP Miroljub Veljkovic. Does the applicant of the amendment come forward for a word? He's not in the O.R. .Is any of the authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 35, against 108, a abstentioned one, did not vote 54, out of 198 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been adopted. Member of the 11th amendment was submitted by MP Cedomir Jovanovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Rajko Baralic, Branko Ružic and Hranislav Peric. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Do any of the applicants of the amendment want a word? Here you go. The word has been given by the People's MP, Hranislav Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19571	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, on behalf of the SPS Parliament Club, I, Mr Rajko Baralic and Branko Ruzic, have submitted an amendment to Article 14, which provides financial support for the family for the birth of the second, third and fourth children. For the first child, financial support is not foreseen. Even though the first child's family will not get support, but will lose their rights so far, there is a possibility that nothing can be obtained for the first child, on any basis. A solution must be found to provide financial support for the first child, for a number of reasons: a lot of things that should be provided for the first child will be used for the second, third and fourth children. A family that, under difficult financial conditions, protects a firstborn child will find it difficult to decide for a second, third and fourth children. If it's the same money that's been shared so far, then a fairer and better division and distribution, for example, for the first kid, 30,000, for the second 50, for the third 80 and for the fourth 100 grand. How will parents explain tomorrow to their children when they tell them. They'll be able to tell the first child - for you the state didn't help me save you; and the second one will say, "I've got money for you to protect you." That is why I suggest that you adopt this amendment and that the first child has the right to financial support.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19572	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? The word has a folk MP, Radojko Petric.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19573	I think the amendment submitted by a group of SPS MPs, which was explained here by MP Hranislav Peric, makes a lot of sense to be accepted. It really deserves attention to better regulate family rights on financial support for the first child. The status of these families materially deteriorates, according to the government's proposal. I cannot look back on one, in my opinion, the wrong reasoning given by the government, where it is said that "emotional and psychological needs can be met with one child". Does that mean that emotional needs are less or less for other, third or more children? But to return to an amendment proposing regulation of the right to provide the family with a parental supplement for the first child. Family with first child is usually the biggest needs at first. Just what my colleague Peric was saying, at first it takes a lot to invest, start from equipment, from bed, from other things, and the truth is that they can later be used for second, third or future children. What it means is that the family does not have the right to this parental supplement: if it is a tripartite, per article 2,750. This means that the family with an income of 8,150 dinars cannot use the right to a parental allowance monthly. Is that humane, is that where you provide support for that family? Indeed, it is not provided, and such families are about 400,000, we heard today, there are in Serbia. Especially if it is considered that this law also abolishs aid for newborn equipment. The only thing that's commendable is that this parental supplement is being introduced, but unfortunately, we can see that he's not meant for the first child. For these reasons, I think it is reasonable, that a good proposal, gives a good amendment to accept and ensure that a parental allowance is paid in some small amount than it is for a second, third or next child, to be a reasonable amount, but to accept as a principle that a parental supplement is provided for the first child.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19574	The word has been given by MP Aleksandar Vucic, as representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19575	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS parliamentary group supports the proposed amendment. I will try briefly to analyze what is written in the light of the specific provisions of the proposed law. Here, I suppose, a minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia or someone from professional services says: "The experiences from many developed countries, regardless of the significant differences in economic, socio-political and value systems, indicate that the material benefits that grow with the increase in the number of children in the family have an incomparably greater potential effect than those that are constant." Namely, the government is trying to justify its decision or its solution in the draft, and later the bill, that there is no parental supplement on the first child, but only on the second, third and fourth, as it is not for the fifth child for unexplained reasons. The SRS parliamentary group tried to correct it in the next article, giving an amendment to Article 15 of the proposed law. This amendment is good for several reasons. In fact, it seems to me that there are some purely material reasons that are very simple to justify. I'll get it from my own example. I have a four-year-old son, and now he's supposed to be born, probably a female child, to have a daughter. Anyway, I don't have to buy a new tub, I don't have to buy a thousand new things a kid can wear, all that's left of his son. To whom the first child must be born must be exposed to enormous costs and the question is how many those who have an incomparably worse material situation than us, given our incomes, our salaries, while, of course, the President of the National Assembly does not kidnap the individual MPs, how these people and how they can buy it, how to provide everything. I don't understand, to be honest with you, it cost a lot of money, and I give it to a woman, and she buys what she needs, those shampoos, the creams, all kinds of wonders, but I know it costs a lot, and I know that it's just ordinary citizens who have a salary of three, four, five, six, or seven thousand dinars that can hardly afford it. So it would be incomparably more important to do it for the first child, especially in a situation where we have this catastrophic economic situation, when we have a huge number of fired workers, people who live harder and harder, who don't have more constant incomes. To decide to have their own family, to have their own child, the state must give them a chance, at least give them something to guarantee that their child will be able to live a life of worthy man. An explanation in the text itself, which says that "emotional and psychological needs can be achieved with one child", just as if the Serbian Government wants to tell our people, our citizens -- don't have two, three and four children, because you can meet your emotional and psychological needs with one child. I love my son most in the world, but I hope so, and I'm sure I'll love my daughter just as much as him in ten days. I haven't met my emotional and psychological needs with one child. I would like to speak to the people and citizens of Serbia in this way and to say so. But it is especially important for those who are just creating their own family, who are yet to have their first child, to be helped. After the first kid, everything gets easier. Then people see and feel, I know from experience, there's nothing more important than children. Then he can do whatever he wants in the country and you can have a million problems, there's nothing more beautiful and nothing more normal and he solves all of your problems when you get home, you see your child, and then everything doesn't matter to you, everything else is completely irrelevant to you. So the most important thing is to accept this amendment, to help us give birth to the first child as much as the second child, third and fourth child, and it would be good if it were intended for the fifth child, that it wasn't something that would happen to us once in a thousand or once in two thousand cases. I'm sure in such a way the state would have, if you will, not just an individual to meet its emotional and psychological needs, but the state, its enormous benefit. The state needs to think strategically, the state has to plan strategically. If we do not accept such amendments and if we do not approach these measures, I fear that in a few dozen years we will be a minority in our own country, and that again, as someone today in Kosovo and Metohija, we will be told - and whose sheep they are, they are not Serb sheep, it is not your country either. (President: Time. ) To warn you, I call on you to accept this amendment, I call on all MPs, the SRS parliamentary group will accept it. If it weren't for these difficult economic conditions and there were no daily layoffs of workers, if there were no growing social misery in Serbia, it might be possible without this. This amendment is even more necessary than it would otherwise be.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19576	Thank you. Is anyone else applying for this amendment? Yeah. ) The word has the minister of social affairs, Mrs Gordana Matkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19577	So once again to point out: a parenting supplement does not have a social function. You're absolutely right, the first kid costs the most. As we used to have with a child's supplement, the amount of child's supplement increased with the order of birth of a child, although we all know that the principle of economies of scale works, so that you have more children who are later born, less cost, because you can use cradles, clothes from previous children, etc. The child's supplement increased for these reasons of the population effect that was to be achieved. So now this same principle is applied to the parental supplement. He's not a social measure, and he doesn't have to make up for his parents' expenses, in which case he'd have to be the biggest for the first kid. And not only does it exist for the first child, but it is to be the greatest for the first child, because, of course, later on, a child born as a second and third child in the family costs less. So that's not his goal. Its goal is not to compensate for costs, but to encourage the birth of a second, third and fourth children, because they are children who are missing in Serbia to improve the demographic image. So when we look at the number of children born as the first child in the family, often and only, the number of these children is enough compared to other countries and compared to what some biological potential of this society represents. Of course, when we rule out those who don't decide to give birth at all for different reasons. It's not enough because of these children, which are second, third and fourth rows of birth. Therefore, the intention of this measure is not to compensate for the costs, but to encourage birth and to facilitate the material situation of the family when it is decided to give birth to a second, third, and fourth children. That's why she's not conditioned by any material, censorship that exists in a child's supplement.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19578	Thank you. Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 44, there are no abstentions against 119, 31 of the 194 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Blazic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19579	Ladies and gentlemen, I have submitted an amendment to Article 14(1). Article 14 stipulates: "The parental allowance is granted by the mother for her second, third and fourth children, provided that she is a citizen of the SRJ, has residence in the Republic of Serbia and is entitled to health care through the Republic Health Insurance Institute." That part of the Republic of Serbia is scheduled to be deleted. It means "and exercise the right to health care through the Republic Institute". There was an explanation why the amendment was rejected and I don't think Mrs. Matkovic saw this argument, so I'll read it. The explanation is: "The government does not accept the above-mentioned amendment because this right should be used by parents who exercise the right to health care and thus provide basic health care for newborns." Please, the basic health care of each newborn is provided and that is his right, whether or not their parent is entitled to health care. That's one thing. The following text: "You and this measure directs all parents to take responsible care of the health of their newborn children." Please, a parent who does not care for the health of his newborn children can probably be a health problem and such a parent cannot objectively care about the health of newborn children. Every other parent, that's understood, cares about health. So this explanation is a little weird. If you're thinking here, and you're probably thinking about farmers who haven't paid their taxes, so they're exercising their right to health care, and it's automatically taking away the right of their children who are born to be entitled to a parental allowance, as well as to their mothers, then it's not fair. It's not fair, first of all, that the state is fighting over the rights of a newborn child with a farmer who, for example, did not pay a tax. The state must have some other mechanisms that some people who don't meet their obligations agree to resolve it, but can't take away the basic rights provided for children. I think we have to really protect our children in every way possible, not by going into any demagogue or some story about it. I expect this amendment is clear and should be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19580	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Aleksandar Vucic, the authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group for this item of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19581	I would ask you to courteous MPs in the second row, who seem to have nothing to do, have nothing better to do and don't know what they are doing in the National Assembly. I'm sure the people who chose them don't know who they chose. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I listened carefully to the minister's earlier response, Mrs. Matkovic. I have to notice one thing, Madam Minister said exactly that maybe this law shouldn't contain specific elements of social policy. But I have to point out one fact, after that, I will return to Article 14 and Mr Blazic's amendment. In Serbia today, the average family has 0.9 children, if you will, and at Shipara, for example, in Kosovo and Metohija it is 6.6. We don't have any children per family. It shows that, or deny your earlier claim, and it would be good, it would be very important to encourage married couples to go into the creation of their families, mothers to give birth to children, and to see that it is even important for us to have that one child. That one child is more than the average of the Republic of Serbia. I can't even imagine how much they participate in that percentage, if we are already speaking to the national interest of the Serbian people, some other nations that have an uncomparably higher growth, incomparably greater nationality than we Serbs. Then you can see if it's a Serbian question and 0.8. That's why it would be good to do it with the first child. As far as this amendment is concerned, this is probably a key amendment to this law, for the simple reason that it tries to erase and rush one part of the first position of Article 14, which speaks of the right to a parental allowance not having those who do not enjoy the right to health care through the Republic Health Insurance Authority. The explanation written by the professional services, I'm sure, is unresponsibly and irresponsiblely made up. Unresponsibly and irresponsiblely because it says that all parents must be responsible for the health of their newborn children, and under those who do not care responsibly, imagine, all those who, not their own fault, do not have employment and cannot exercise the right to health care. So those who, for example, have been fired in Kragujevac, Bor, Belgrade or any other city in Serbia, have no employment, have no right to health care and are irresponsible to their children. At least that's what the government of the Republic of Serbia says in its explanation. This is what cannot be accepted, it would be good, and I call on the Minister to come out for this pay phone and to say who those who do not have the right to a parental allowance, which are all categories of people who do not enjoy the right to health care, that people know who will not have the right to a parental supplement, that they know why and those refugees, which have made your mouth full of wonderful and beautiful words upon coming to power, do not enjoy the right to a parental supplement, why farmers do not enjoy this right. Why don't all those who lose their jobs enjoy that right? So this is a question for the minister and it would be good to say why discrimination is being done in such a way, not only by parents but also by children, because, according to the Serbian government's explanation, someone will allegedly be responsible because he is employed somewhere, and someone because he has been fired or because he cannot get a job, in no case can be held accountable. At least that's how the government of the Republic of Serbia says in its explanation. If Mrs. Minister accepts this amendment, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, it will be something that will significantly improve this law. I'm sure Mrs. Matkovic feels the same way we do. Whether he can accept it or not, we'll see it, but I'm sure he thinks it would be good to accept this amendment, because I can't believe anyone would want to give up giving up the opportunity, giving up the right to add to all parents, not just those who are employed and who enjoy the right to health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19582	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for the amendment? Here you are, the head of the DOS parliamentary group, Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19583	Ms. Micic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is the fact that in the debate on this law, especially in particular, we cannot avoid the kind of politicisation that will not help solve problems that are serious and that will not be removed even by the application of this law. First, it seems to me that there is a misuse of the farmers' protest here and that something like this will in itself receive the most qualitative response to the roads of the Sword, but as far as these criticisms related to the Resorving Ministry of the Republic of Serbia's Government, they were allegedly derived from the intention of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or the Ministry, to deny someone the right to health insurance. I must remind you that one of the demands of the farmers is precisely the optionalness of health insurance and that one of the points of disputes between the Republic government and the Ministry is, on the other hand, exactly the government's insistence on the obligation of health insurance and the obligation to pay farmers into the Republic Health Insurance Fund, i.e. social obligations to the state. As for those other categories which do not have the right to health insurance, i.e. the parental supplement, it is true that refugees do not have, or those refugees who receive our citizenship, will gain their right and the Federal Ministry of Interior is working on this every day, updating lists, issuing citizenship, but we are not a society that is able to say in advance that they will pay off any parental allowance without, among other things, insisting on what the member of this law clearly predicted, and this is on the right of the insurance companies that emerge from the residence, the registered residence on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and the citizenship of the SRJ. I also think that it must be clearly pointed out what is the essential ingenuity of this law, which primarily concerns improving the conditions, but certainly not in the way they try to through the amendments to do the representatives of the opposition. I mean the conditions and circumstances under which it is carried out, among other things, and the kind of social obligation that the state has to implement. We, as a new authority, inherited a delay in the cost of children's allowances of two years, a late payment for material security of the family of 26 months, a late payment of compensation for other people's assistance and care for 32 months, a late payment of pension to farmers of three years. I'm not saying it was your political intention, but it was the consequences of the policy that led the country into an unbearable situation. We need to change something like that together, among other things, through the conclusion that this society can only pay as much as they produce. That's our maximum right now. We carefully take care of all socially endangered categories of the population. The unemployed are protected and I don't think that this law is going anywhere with this kind of inaccuracies towards people who are left out of work or who are currently at the Bureau, given that they are a protected category of the population and against the Republic Health Insurance Fund and from the Resort Ministry. So, politicization, without some excessive need, without a lot of meaning, because it is clear that this is the maximum that the state can do at the moment, and that very quickly, hopefully, we will live in a well-organised society, which will be able to apply standards that are characteristic, let's say, for the countries of the European Union.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19584	Thank you. Right on line, MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19585	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I called on the minister, or as the president of the Assembly called - Minister Matkovic, to go out and say what categories of persons they will not have the right to a parental supplement, and he went out for the speaker Cedomir Jovanovic and said everything that is true, just misreading. In fact, it is quite true, and the Serbian Radical Party advocated that insurance be voluntary and optional. That's what we wanted in 1996 here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, submitted amendments. The amendment by the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group was not accepted in 1996 either. But that's why, just because we're looking for it, we're asking that because someone doesn't enjoy the right to health care, and someone that doesn't have such discrimination and parental segregation -- whether they're going to have the right to a parental supplement or not. That's why, not a reason against accepting this amendment. That's what we were talking about. There was no politicization here. We only talked about farmers as one category. It's pointless to talk about politicisation by those who have turned everything into politicization, who can no longer talk about football or basketball, and that's not politics and that one of them is not involved in all this. We talked here about legal solutions that are very important, about our amendments that can change the essence of the law. I'm calling on the minister to come out and answer what we talked about. I'm sure the answer will be very different. As far as refugee issues are concerned, it was true, there were many problems in the previous government. Someone deliberately and deliberately prevented the possibility of avoiding Serbian citizenship from the territory of the Serbian Krajina, Republika Srpska or former Croatian or Bosnian-Herzegovina federal units. But it's also true that even today, and after a lot of swearing, this process does not go slow but a crawling step, if it's possible to say it right at all. Well, I guess so far it's been possible for so many refugees to enter in the book of citizens of SRJ. It has been a year and a half since the formation of a new federal government, the DOS federal government, and the largest number of refugees has not been registered yet. If someone says that the same relationship with the Serbs is equal to that of refugees and others, this law will confirm and show that it is not, and we are not complaining about this norm, but about our relationship with our people. I'll read you this standard, it's about the attitude of Article 17, which refers to a child's supplement. It says: "Foreign citizens are working on the territory of the Republic of Serbia to achieve a child's supplement, if specified by an international agreement, under the conditions provided for by this law. "There is, therefore, a foreign citizen, but there is no norm that applies to a Serb refugee because he was expelled by the Ustasha army, Ali's army, or anyone, who had to settle here, in the territory of Serbia's avionics. There's no such thing as a norm. That's what we asked the minister to explain. I ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia to accept this amendment and to recommend to the MPs that they accept this amendment. I'm sure that would be much better for this law itself, that it could not be said that it was just a marketing solution, but that something of what the opposition had asked the government to do in a serious way and accepted it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19586	The word has Minister Gordana Matkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19587	It's not about refugees. They have the right to health care. So by erasing this part -- as you have proposed by amendment, to exclude what is provided for as a condition for health care -- from being eliminated and not involving refugees, because they have the right to health care; actually, based on citizenship, I am now responding to that part, they cannot exercise this right. When it comes to farmers, what farmers were looking for, it's voluntary retirement and disability insurance; I've never heard that they were looking for voluntary health insurance. I wouldn't go into it now, since it's not our ministry's jurisdiction, but it's very important that there is a basis for a child to be able to provide health care and use everything that's important to provide in a civilized country through child health care. Farmers were looking for voluntary retirement insurance and I'm sure voluntary health insurance won't ask for it or didn't ask for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19588	Since there are no more entries for the word, I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 44, against 106, the abstentioned were not voted 44, a total of 194 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Goran Cvetanovic submitted to the 15th amendment. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The word is made by MP Goran Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19589	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Radical Party has tabled an amendment to Article 15. Article 15 of the proposed law reads: "The parental allowance is paid once for June 2002 and is for the second child 50,000 dinars, for the third child 90,000 dinars and for the fourth child of 120,000 dinars. "The amendment of the Serbian Radical Party is proposed to change Article 15th position and reads: "The parental allowance is paid once for June 2002 and is for the first child 50,000 dinars, for the second child 90,000 dinars, for the third child, 120,000 dinars and for the fourth child, 150,000 dinars. "So the difference is that this proposed law does not cover the first child at all. The significance of the first child can be observed with many aspects. It can be observed because the generational period for each woman is approximately the most important of about 22 years, it is now necessary to stimulate women to be born during that period of time. Since pregnancy is a specific condition, which is said in the people -- second condition, it's just a hormonal balance that's changed in a woman, it's changed psyche, and in any case, it's an unknown condition because it's the first pregnancy; that's why a woman has a trauma, because she doesn't know how this birth is going to start, whether physiologically it's going to start or, as often happens, to go physiologically, and then it's going to go into some trauma, so how it's going to start, how it's going to end, and whether a mother is going to adequately nurse a child when she first gives birth. What is a major trauma and what is unfortunately a great truth -- about 20% of the population in Serbia is treated with sterility. There are various causes in women, whether because of the inability to ovulate or because of an abortion before the woman first gave birth, and approximately, statistically observed, 50% is the reason for male sterility, and 50% is the reason for female sterility. It is precisely because of this sterility (and I will tell you that the cost of artificial insemination is about 5,500 marks, and many times it is necessary to repeat these attempts) of families that are treated with sterility, when, fortunately and fortunately, the citizens of Serbia have reached the first child, already had high costs. I am sorry that the minister is not present and if he hears all this, she would probably react differently, although I must admit that he is the only person in the government who listens carefully to the MPs and who is trying to communicate professionally with MPs, unlike other representatives of the government, but the fact is that she is currently defending herself and saying that this is not a social category, the first child. Let me just remind you that Gordana Matkovic is the minister of social affairs and that she should also take care of the social status of all Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19590	The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, an authorised representative of the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19591	Ladies and gentlemen, the argument given by the government by rejecting this amendment concerns the lack of funds in the budget. They say it's impossible to cover it with the funds of the budget that we are, i.e. You, the congregation majority here, adopted. Let me remind you -- during the debate under the omnibus law, when we said that these were huge costs for the state, you reminded us that there was a budget rebalance and that we could expect budget rebalance. For this reason, why we can't count on this budget rebalance, especially by law that the right to a parental allowance will have children born only from 1 June of this year, means for half a year, and there can be some projection of how many children it is. Once again, if this is a population measure, and the minister keeps saying it's a population measure, then there's no need to distinguish between the first, second, third, or any subsequent child. Every child is equally important and should stimulate parents to give birth. Therefore, what I have said by explaining my amendment to Article 4 - a parenting supplement should be an act of gratitude to the state that citizens contribute in this way to the national interest of number two in this country, which is a struggle with the white plague.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19592	Is there anyone else applying for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 40, against 104 abstentions, there was no vote of 50, a total of 194. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 15th amendment were submitted by MPs Toma Busetic, Rajko Baralic and Vladimir Garcevic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does a representative of the applicants of the amendment want a word? There's a word from MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19593	Dear President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, counterparts Toma Busetic, Vladimir Garčević and I, on behalf of the SPS, have submitted an amendment to Article 15, which reads: "The parental allowance is paid once and amounts for the first child 30,000, second 60,000, third 120,000 and fourth 150,000 dinars. "As the Government and the National Assembly did not accept the amendment to Article 14, I suppose neither, because it is practically a matter of materialising the rights provided for in Article 14, but I would like to say that the argument given by the Government is not accepted. The government does not accept that amendment because the parental supplement is defined as a population measure, and research related to our country shows that it is not necessary to stimulate the birth of the first child, which is primarily motivated by the high value of the child in the individual system of values, etc. We are trying to stress here that the birth of a first child in the family is the most important event for the family in general and that, as other parties have said today, from the SPS, it is also the most important that the family, among other things, is willing to accept a new member as appropriate, and that in all families it is possible to function normally when the rebirth comes into the family. That's the point. So we can talk here about different variations, whether or not it can, but the point is really what I'm talking about. He also spoke to a colleague of the Wolf, and others here today. Indeed, buying the baby's equipment is a huge cost and it is perfectly normal for the first child to intervene, as proposed to these or some other amendments, anyway. We're all at the same wavelength, only differing in the amount of the proposed funds. I must, unfortunately, say that we live in conditions where state television in one way that is not appropriate favoured by promiscuity, non-birth, is also in the form of protection, i.e. prevention from side, in a way that is also not appropriate and too pronounced, advertise contraceptive means, and a whole series of other things, which makes state television, are not in line with national needs and with one country's strategy, to increase birth. Also, Serbia is the state where the violent termination of pregnancy for non-medical reasons is almost the most liberal in Europe. Also, Serbia is a country which, by the number of violent terminations of pregnancy for non-medical reasons in minors, ranks in the order of those countries where this number is, unfortunately, the largest. And the third thing I want to say -- if all the children born were planned, half of that number wouldn't be born. That's the point, that's what research says. So parents themselves sometimes need to deceive a new baby into coming to the world. That's the point. I think we should all do everything we can and agree on this question. It needs to be stimulated, it needs to encourage the birth of the first child in the family. I think that's what we need to reach agreement on. I know, of course, that voting for this amendment is a direct burden on the budget for large funds, 400,000 families would thus exercise the right. These are huge funds, but if we do our best, we could replace them either by budget rebalance or by redistributing them within the existing budget. We know that under the Law on the Budgetary System, and other laws, the finance minister has a discretionary right to redistribute funds from positions during one year without having to rebalance such matters. Because of everything I said, because of the need that is essential and because of our understanding of this whole problem, I ask you to accept the proposed amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19594	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 50, against 107, a abstentioned one, did not vote 28, out of 186 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Stevan Kesejic submitted to the 16th amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There's a word from MP Stevan Kesejic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19595	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 16 concerning the incentive of the measures of population policy, and in response to the government that I have received, not to accept this amendment, it is said of a material incentive. So it is obvious that there was no consistent Minister Gordana Matkovic and the Government here in response, because we heard here that this member refers exclusively to the measures of population policy. The government responds to a narrow circle of users and says a material incentive is not of importance. However, the position of the SRS parliamentary group is that all children, newborn children and babies, should be treated equally in this country and should not be neglected. So no child should be neglected. As my predecessors from the SRS parliamentary group spoke of discrimination against the firstborn child, and then children born after the fourth child, as well as discrimination against those children, those parents who are not health insurance, so can talk about discrimination against parents, or babies, newborns, who are neither guilty nor debtors, born by parents who belong, as you consider this proposal a rich layer of Serbian citizens. And that's a question of discussion -- is that the basis of the right measure, or do you think that this country should be poor and that is the limit to which the tax base can be in Serbia. From this you can best see where Serbia's path leads us and where we are on the road, because, in practice, not recognising certain layers of citizens, or parents, we show that the global policies of DOS authorities are also being transferred to social moments, that is, to the population policy that you have advocated, and allegedly you are fighting against the white plague. In this way, the Serbian government, in response to Amendment 16, has shown that it is only one type of marketing and that it has no idea that it is actually speeding up or that it is improving the measures of population policy. To us, Serbian radicals, it doesn't matter which group of parents are concerned, whether they're poor parents, whether they're politicians, or whether they're mobsters and criminals. It's not wrong for a child to be born into one of those families, and that's why he doesn't have to answer. I want each of the ministers from the government to also have his child (or parent), also get one of these measures that will be in line with the Serbian government's population policy, which only declares itself to be a population improvement and that is not the case from this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19596	Does anyone else sign up for a word? The People's MP, Alexander Wuccic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19597	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS parliamentary group has submitted this amendment, and now I will explain why this amendment is good and why it would be desirable for the parliamentary majority to accept it. In fact, Madam Minister just recently, explaining why she cannot accept one of the amendments to the SRS parliamentary group, said that this law implements measures of population policy rather than any other social measures. Then, in the 16th article, we have another negative discrimination, right after the social chess, by social model -- those who have so much and so much, will not get the help of the state. A moment ago, when we talked about the costs of parents for the first child, the minister told us - but these are not social measures, these are measures of population policy, and we are asking these parents to have as many children as possible, i.e. to the fourth child, because for the fifth child there is no parental supplement. So, this kind of contradiction in the reasoning of the Serbian government, in the light of its representative, its minister, would have to be avoided. That's why I urge you to accept this amendment to the SRS. It will not cost much the government, or the budget of the Republic of Serbia, or the taxpayers of the Republic of Serbia, because there are not many people with this much tax base. But why should we single out parents in such a way, why do we talk - you're the one who's right, and you're the one who doesn't have a right, or one child, or one parent is something more important, and the other parent is a little less important, or a little bit more interested in getting another, third and fourth children than the other, because this one has a little more money than he does. I think that if it comes to the measures of population policy, it is no matter what the state of Serbia is going to give birth to those children. It's important for these kids to be. We need all children to be equal, but all parents alike, at least not to tear down their parental status, so that their parental rights are not different, that in something everyone is equal -- and those who have more, and those who have less, and those who have almost nothing. If we are to adopt some new social policy measures, some new social laws, then it would make sense to put in such provisions, but then all previous amendments submitted by both the SRS and some other parliamentary groups would have to be accepted. So that's the point. The 14th member cannot be called to that social component, or to say - there is no social component here, there are only measures of population policy, and in the 16th member in the most direct way of certain people, just because some of them have more, they deny certain rights. I call on the Minister and the Government of the Republic of Serbia to suggest to the parliamentary majority that they accept this amendment of MP Stevan Kesjejic, while once again asking the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia to come out and tell us, if it is not true what we have talked about and what we have been saying, if Mrs Matkovic is right, then let him tell me why this provision is necessary at all - the right to health care, through the Republic Health Insurance Office. If we're wrong, why is that provision necessary at all? Then tell us who the right is or who the right is denied, that we finally hear it. All day, somehow it seems to me, we've been persecuting ourselves and trying to figure out who they are who don't have the right to a parenting allowance. Come out and tell us who you are and why this standard stands, why such a provision still stands. Or, if there's no one who's been denied, those for whom such a right is potentially constraint, to accept such an amendment to the SRS, and then we'll say -- well, there's no limit, there's no negative discrimination. So, I'm afraid we've been listening to some kind of political eviction, a political avoidance to say what's the point, and yet it's going to be the way we've seen it in our proposal for an amendment that, unfortunately, is not accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19598	The word is Mrs Gordana Matkovic, Minister of Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19599	Therefore, as a measure of population policy, a parenting supplement should not restrict anyone in terms of material position. However, we still felt that, given the situation in which the country is located and the extent to which we are limited, and to what extent there is a large number of people who are hard to live, giving funds for these purposes to people who have an extremely high tax base (and to remind them that there is a tax base that is greater than 12 million dinars) would be considered in some way inadequate spending of taxpayers' money, since that is the only way that money can be collected. The fact is that this would not have an effect on the budget, since such people in Serbia are very few, but I think it is also a fact that for these people it certainly would not be any incentive for birth, which is the basic or most important meaning and purpose of this measure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19600	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 49, against 92, the abstentions, were not voted 31, a total of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 17th amendment, with a correction, was filed by MP Milorad Mircic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The amendmentr wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19601	The essence of the amendment submitted by the SRS is that children over the age of 19 and who are in regular schooling are given a child's allowance. For the first part of the amendment, we've heard an explanation that's not a bit convincing. It is on the amendment submitted by Mr Blazic in front of the SRS. There is one thing that prevails here, or rather, one dilemma, which is an explanation that the government has clearly defined to draw a clear line of distinction between social and population policy. We see, in the very proposal for a law and for an explanation, that it dominates the spilling of social and population policy. The logic of things is that in a situation like this, in the social crisis that this country is in, which is growing and bigger every day, primarily thanks to those in power, cannot clearly distinguish and separate the social from the population policy. And in much more developed countries, it doesn't work, so it's useless to do it now. These are the populist methods used by the government to gain temporarily some cheap political points. What's the point behind this claim? The bottom line is that if a child's allowance is paid at 900 dinars to those who are over 19 and are on regular schooling, it's not a huge cost to the state, especially when we have in mind, and the minister won't be here from the pay phone to confirm that most of the work in the past year and a half of the child's allowance has been paid out of international aid. Then why is the minister's explanation and reasoning unnecessary, that the budget will be additionally burdened. It has to be made clear -- either it was before media manipulation, or we were or we weren't getting that international aid, which was primarily, most of it, intended to pay off children's supplements. These are foreign donors that you have praised through all your media that the benefactors, how we could not pay for children's allowances, could not have provided for the government of Serbia, had it not been for international communities and their benefactors. The argument is now given that this would further burden the budget and, minority, indirectly, the MPs in this assembly are blamed for adopting such a budget. Don't substitute the thesis to transfer responsibility to someone else, in this case to the Assembly. Either the government's capable or it's not. The government should have said in an explanation why it did not accept the SRS amendment in particular. In case a child's allowance is given to all those who are over 19, and are regularly educated, it will be an additional separation in height so much and so much. We calculate that we will not receive international assistance in the coming period, especially through which social problems should be solved, because we cannot catch or catch enough Serbs, so they will not give us, and in order to save, we need to deny children over 19 years of scholarship or child support. That's the point. And not to be distracted here with stories and arguments, specifically for this amendment is the explanation - it calls for an explanation of Article 14, and in that Article 14, it is called for an explanation of Article 11. Let us not play something that is not desirable in this congregation.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19602	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? There's a minister, Mrs. Gordana Matkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19603	Here it is clearly said in the explanation - a child is considered to be someone under 18 (so there is no invitation to other amendments). As well as the fact that this must be solved through scholarships, a child's supplement is simply not an appropriate way to solve this problem. When it comes to international aid and donations, I would like to point out once again -- everything that is regularly paid, is paid out of the budget. All the commitments accumulated from the previous period (when they were talking about paying bonds for child's allowances, means, first, second, third, fourth coupons paid prematurely) were paid out of international aid. It is, then, something that is beyond what is a regular commitment to the budget. Also, additional donations were paid out of international aid. So we've been taking great care of that, in our ministry, that we're not looking for international help for something that's regular, because we think it's then going into a trap of addiction, and then you're not taking a place in the budget that's important, and that we can pay off our commitments regularly even when international aid disappears. So there was an additional child's supplement in September from French aid, there was an additional child's supplement for children without parental ageing from the government of Austria. There were payments of child bonds from international aid, which had to be paid on the basis of the first, second, third and fourth coupons, which also went from international aid. All that regular giving was from the Republic of Serbia's budget. (Milorad Mircic, from the post: Budgetary grant has been reduced. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19604	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19605	I apologize to those who are bored. We say this mainly because of the people of Serbia who should hear and know. We should, and we, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, have repeatedly pointed out today, pointed to one interesting thing, to an interesting detail. In fact, Minister Matkovic has told us several times different arguments. What's interesting is that these are contradictions, contradictory norms in the departments of law that cannot survive in legal traffic. It was a key question that was not answered. However, as far as amendments by MP Milorad Mircic are concerned, he points to one thing that is restrictive in the proposed law. It points to the fact that up to 26 years ago, there is a child's allowance only for disabled children, while for children who are regularly educated, according to previous, or still positive regulations, until this was adopted, there was a possibility for children's allowance. It is interesting, however, that Minister Matkovic, in his explanation, says we have received international assistance for these children's allowances. It's not true that they're giving some big help. They give it for children's supplements, because they're relatively low amounts. All other Serbian citizens see how international aid is going -- we'll give one million for children's allowances, but you'll give us 10 million marks of cheaper cements in Beocino. Not to mention other things. I think it is very important to say that each time the Government of the Republic of Serbia points to something that will just happen, something that will just be called upon, when we had certain norms and provisions that were unacceptable to the Law on Privatisation, when we had certain standards regarding the Labour Act. It's always said - but there's a preparation in progress and a new social programme will be brought in. That's how it is now. We haven't solved the problem of children who are regularly schooled and over 18 years old, but we're going to settle it by some other law, because they are no longer children according to international conventions, they get 18 years of age, and they get somewhere, though, and 21 years old. In our country, it was all done to make sure that all government obligations were lost as quickly as possible. I would like once, and I'm sure all the MPs of the SRS, to have the government come up with some concrete solutions and concrete measures, how to solve certain problems that cause some new legal solutions, how to address these problems first and foremost. Only then do we go to new laws. Now, it seems to me that we have at least 50 consecutive laws in different areas that have to solve the problems that we've created by making so-called. systematic or key laws from individual spheres or main areas of social life. That is what the MPs of the SRS are trying to criticise and I call on the parliamentary majority to accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19606	Thank you. Mr Gordana Matkovic, the Minister of Social Affairs, answered the words.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19607	So, just one sentence. So far, the law says a child supplement belongs to children up to 19 years of age, who are in regular schooling. So it's not about reducing the rights that existed in the previous law.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19608	Thank you. Since there are no more entries for the word, I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 28, against 96, the abstentions were not voted 28 out of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Just two brief notices: a session of the Committee on Justice instead of at 1800 hours will be held immediately after the end of the session of the National Assembly. It is the same for a session of the Committee on Presentations and Proposals, so instead of 14.00 hours, it will be held after the work is done today.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19609	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please continue our work in the afternoon. Please, for the sake of creating conditions for the work of the Assembly, let us determine the quorum. Here you go. We have a quorum. We continue to discuss the draft law on financial support for families with children, details. On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by MP Bora Stanimirovic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here's a word from MP Bora Stanimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19610	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Madam Minister, I have an amendment to Article 17 of Section 6, 7 and 8, which refers to a child's allowance up to 19 years of age. Even so, experience has shown, as has the practice of law enforcement so far, that children under 19 were able to use supplements during regular schooling. There were reasons why it was abolished, although they had received an addendum by the age of 26, given the state of the country, the isolation of Yugoslavia, the bombing. It was done two and a half years ago. However, there are now conditions that this state of change is so much before there are many reasons, and it is essential that children of primary school attend the place of their parents, that the secondary school ends, at least two thirds of them, in the place of their parents, and that more than two thirds of the students actually study outside of the place of their parents, which is certainly one of the reasons that they need this help more than others, starting from the fact that tuitions are now high, that a small number of students are enrolled and funded from the budget, and that it certainly affects relations created within the schools themselves. Starting with this, especially when it comes to this emergency law, which will not take effect until June 1st, starting with the very name of the law that provides for financial assistance, it might be best to pass a law on some other form of support that would in some way affect the change in the situation. Secondly, when it comes to the fall of birth, I think it's very important to consider other circumstances that might contribute to repairing this condition. So it's not just Members 16 and 17, but these other members who are colleagues so far being instructed. Therefore, I suggest that this article is - that children's supplements can receive all children or adults up to 26 years of age if they are in regular schooling. That's why it pulls the change of attitudes 7 and 8, where it just changes the number instead of 19 to be 26. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19611	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 32, against 106, the abstentions, did not vote 21, out of a total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Vladimir Garčević, Bora Stanimirovic and Slobodan Pavlovic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Do any of the authorised applicants of the amendment want a word? Here, the word is Slobodan Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19612	The Honorable Presidency, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, as you have heard, a group of MPs from the SPS Parliament Club have tabled an amendment to Article 18. The bill, therefore to a member who, among other things, regulates the question of a child's allowance, as it was in the previous case, when my esteemed colleague Dr Stanimirovic submitted an amendment to Article 17 and the child's allowance is regulated by members until 22. So, those who haven't read, and also for the sake of the public, I want to read what Article 18 regulates. It regulates what is within the meaning of this law or what is considered to be schooling in terms of the right of children's allowance, so it is said that education, within the meaning of this law, is an education in elementary school, i.e. education in the capacity of a regular student in high school, which is covered by a network of schools whose founder is the Republic of Serbia, i.e. SP Vojvodina, and in accordance with the rules in the field of education. A group of SPS MPs suggested that in Article 18, behind the word "high school" they should put the word "high school, or college" - while the rest of the text would be deleted in accordance with the rules in the field of education, which would practically mean that - the right to a child's allowance, i.e. education in terms of this member would be attended by pupils of primary education, students of regular secondary schools and regular students in higher and higher schools. In response to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, it is said that this amendment is not accepted for the same reasons, which are mentioned in relation to Amendment 17, that is the amendment my colleague, Professor Stanimirovic, spoke of. I must remind you that the Government in response, and this is also what I am saying because of Madam Minister, says - the government does not accept the above amendment because international conventions and our positive regulations of the child are considered a child up to 18 years of age, i.e. adulthood is achieved at 18 years of age. Moving the border, it said, to 19 years in the draft law was conditioned by the completion of secondary education, except for children who were extended parental rights due to developmental disturbances and children who, for legitimate reasons, extended education and training. It is further said that child's supplement is not an adequate measure of material support for young people over 19 years and this group should be materially supported within the framework of the education system and measures of the student standard. So, when we proposed this amendment, we didn't even come from these facts, because they're undeniable to us, too. We know when adulthood comes, we know what it means when you graduate from high school when you're 19, we know what international conventions are. The reasons why we tabled this amendment, as well as the amendment to Article 17, have been presented in principle by Master Radojko Petric, who otherwise represents our parliamentary group, and first of all concerns four things. First, that we had this right of child's allowance in the previous period for up to 26 years, so also for students at higher and higher schools, as support for parents and for creating material conditions that they can also study regularly. Another reason why many of the rights previously suspended, shortened, or taken away by this law is that parents have come to an economically difficult position. In addition to the law, so I understood the proposal, so I understood what Mrs. Minister was correctly responding, yet she has a social dimension, next to this other one, so we felt that there were many reasons and a lot of grounds for this amendment to be accepted. With this in mind, I cannot call on the minister (who will do so himself) whether he has the authority or the possibility to accept this amendment, and I urge the MPs of the majority to accept this amendment and thus contribute and assist the parents who have children in school, and because of the overall economic situation, they themselves are unable to do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19613	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) I am putting the amendment on Article 18 for a vote and I am asking the MPs to make a statement. For 50, against 112 abstentions, there was no 18 vote, a total of 180 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 18th amendment. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19614	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since my colleague read Article 18 before me and what it refers to, I wouldn't stick to it. The Serbian Radical Party's amendment is that, in terms of this law, under regular education, more and college education is accepted. Why does the Serbian Radical Party advocate such a method? The reforms, which the DOS started in this country by coming to power, can be seen that the child of the minority is starting to pay taxes as soon as he is born. The tax begins to pay through the diapers you've introduced to tax, on the hygiene funds you've introduced to taxes, on children's confectionery and galantery, on textbooks and notebooks, for both basics and secondarys, as well as for higher schools and colleges. I think it's perfectly natural for you to return one part of those tax obligations to your children, including students during their education. According to the government's stance and reasoning in the principle, when the Serbian Radical Party proposed such a solution, the minister explained that more and higher education can be regulated by scholarships. Now I ask the question - when will these scholarships come to order? First of all, we all know that by privatizing that you have started a large number of professional labour forces, they will lose their jobs, so that the new employers who will come, most likely from abroad, will have no interest in investing funds in our experts and our staff funds through scholarships. That's one reason. Secondly, I have to tell you that even the partisans, when they came to power, were educated (yours, yours, and now if you were a central committee, you'd probably empty these benches) by Tito's fund for citizens who couldn't finance their own education. The very experiences from the West that you should apply, not only to write the laws that they dictate to you, but to take theirs and to study them a little, are such that, apart from the one-time help parents receive at birth, many workers are exempt from various tax benefits that the state takes care of, so that their salary increases, the net salary on the same gross basis. I think it's perfectly natural. Now, with this policy that you started by introducing this kind of child support, more education and college will only be available to the rich, and I don't think it's right anyway, because it doesn't mean that if someone has money and funds to get to school, that they're a good expert and that they're going to contribute to this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19615	Do any of the other participants want a word? The word is from MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19616	Mrs. Komic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it would be good if we really continued as a society to take care of those of our citizens who, for example, are studying, but someone 18 or 19 years old does not need a child's allowance. He needs a law on university, a quality university, a job after college, a housing loan, a state that is part of the international community, not a state that is under sanctions or in isolation. Offering instead of everything as a solution to a child's supplement for someone 19 years old is tragic. We offer scholarships as a solution to those who deserve this kind of social care, offer resolved housing conditions in student homes, offer free education, but we will not offer them a child's allowance, because they do not deserve such a thing, and we do not think that as a power we tolerate such a thing. A child's allowance belongs to children, in accordance with international conventions that define an age of 18 as a age of age, and so it will be in Serbia, whether someone likes it or not. The students will receive student loans, a high-quality university and a good job after that, and a child's supplement, which has never been the category we used to get together before, will not be in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19617	The word is given by MP Aleksandar Vucic, representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19618	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment of MP Veroljub Arsic spoke of any isolation, of any international community, although it is difficult today in the legal science to define that term. There are several different definitions and theorists still cannot agree on what the international community is, so it would be rather pointless for those who know much less than those who are skilled in the area. As for amendments to Serbian Radical Party MP Veroljub Arsic, he sought something that exists as a right under the positive Law on Social Care for Children. He wasn't making up Spanish villages, he wasn't offering God knows what new, but one solution that existed and still exists, until this law was passed in our positive legislation, something that was a good solution. I think we're talking about this law today, not something that all Serbian people would want, what students would need and what not. If someone thinks students need to pay 60,000 dinars, yes, well you heard, 60,000 dinars cost enrolment for self-financed students at the Faculty of Law in Belgrade, if someone thinks it's a good law, or an internal legal act of one of the colleges, then I don't think that's good, and I'm sure most Serbian citizens and those who send children to studies don't think so either. In my day as a high school student, and later in college, as one of the best students, I received a state scholarship. The state's scholarship, it wasn't much of a deal, but the state was going to say that it takes care of those who are the best students and students. I think it was called - a scholarship to develop the scientific and artistic youth of the Republic of Serbia, I don't know if it still exists today. But it has nothing to do with what we're talking about today. And we're going back to what I thought we had cleared up before the break was given at 1400 hours, and I was talking about having secondary legislation, which is a big problem for our country. We have an unsettled legal order, an unsettled legal system in general. You have the crimes of people, not in one criminal law, but in 70 different laws we have criminal acts, of offences that we don't even talk about, of commercial crimes that we don't talk about, instead of having a code for the whole area. What we do in this area -- we have a law on child welfare, a pretty good law; not something that would especially mean to our citizens, but a solid and correct law. Now we're breaking this law, we're breaking it, because in transitional and final terms, it says, on the day of the entry into force of this law, you and those members of the Law on Social Care of Children, and now in the same sphere of social life, we have another law that deals with it, so now you find out which official paper you're going to look at, or what official messenger you're looking at, in which law you're looking for your rights, where to find your obligations, what is the state doing to you, and what is it you're giving to the state? This is what represents the key problem of our legal order today, and about that, it seems to me, little anyone wants to talk about. And to say ultimately what is the essence, for those who have not read this amendment - we are therefore asking that under education, within the meaning of this law, education as a regular student in high school, which is covered by a network of schools whose founder is the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the AP Vojvodina, be added only to that - and a regular student at higher schools and universities, and nothing more. I don't think it's a big burden for the state, especially when it's really about minimum amounts, something that the state budget shouldn't be a big burden, and in this way we self-prove that there are certain restrictions, no one knows why. And now, you can always explain it with a floscula or an empty story -- well, today, it worships the world, I see how it worships us, we all see; tomorrow it will come to us "Salana's small" to explain to us how our state is gone, how we're going to arrest one, the other, the third, or the fifth, how much weight of Serbian meat is delivered, and there's nothing out of these pairs, and the people are living harder and harder. The people just want to live normal, to live better, and this law, that the marketing type, that's why it's being brought, shows the fact that, literally, it's been ripped out of what was part of the Law on Social Care for Children. Nothing new has been brought in, except that some parents' rights, some children's rights are incomparably more restrictive than they were under a positive law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19619	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? The word has a minister, Mrs. Gordana Matkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19620	As stated in the principle debate, one part of the competence that is related to preschool institutions will be transferred to the Ministry of Education and will be regulated by the law on preschool institutions. Until the law is passed, some elements of the Law on Social Care for Children must remain in force, which now come to the authority of the second ministry. When we did that demarcation, we saw that it couldn't be worked on the changes in this area, but that, in fact, these are financial rights related to supporting the family and that's why this law is called. When it comes to current rights, when it comes to child support, under the existing Law on Social Care for Children, Article 23. The law says, "The addition to children belongs to children for the longest time in 19 years of their lives, if they are in regular schooling. "So if they're not in regular schooling, it doesn't belong to them until 19 years of age. Those two things are connected. And finally, what's also important is that there really is confidence in our Ministry when it comes to child support that this is not the way, because the right way is really scholarships.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19621	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I am putting the amendment to Article 18 to the vote. For 47, there are no abstentions against 119, 27 of the 193 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 19th Amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Dragan Tomic, Ljubomir Mucic and Joca Arsic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word on behalf of a group of MPs? The word is made by MP Dragan Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19622	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, article 19 speaks of the right to a child's allowance. This right to a children's allowance in Serbia uses the largest number of families. It was certainly achieved by the largest number of families with one child or more children in the earlier years. We are now in a situation where by leaving a base of 2,750 dinars, we are in a situation that maybe a number of families will no longer be in a position to exercise this right. Our proposal refers to the lowest basis of the previous three months, in the month when the law is exercised, being half the average earnings in the Republic of Serbia. It's a real category, it's variable in every statistical period and it's a real indicator, which can lead to the largest number of families, based on real criteria, achieving this right. We think that the cadastrian income or income generated by agricultural producers here is seriously compromised, because it has a reduction category for taxes and contributions, and taxes in the structure of the cadastrian income are very low, but the contributions are not accounted for in this way and are significantly burdened by cadastrian income, i.e. burdening the average profit. If we get into a situation here to deal with it this way, a large number of families living in the country will be left without being able to achieve a child's allowance for one or more children. We suggest that attitude 2 be deleted and that in attitude 1, we leave half of the average earnings in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19623	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? If not, I'm putting the amendment to article 19 to the vote. For 53, against 109 abstentions, he did not vote 31, out of a total of 193 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 19th amendment, with a correction, was filed by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Does any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? If not, I'll put the amendment to article 19. For 40, against 107, the abstentioned were not voted 45, out of 192 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Petar Jojic submitted the 20th amendment. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19624	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, according to the SRS, this law cannot come into a group of reform laws. I have submitted an amendment to Article 20; in that article, the censorship found in article 19 is increased by 20% for single parents, foster parents, foster parents, and parents of children distracted by mental development. The SRS estimates that this is not enough, which the government believes will patch something up with this. Serbian radicals believe that the government should primarily reduce the price of utility services, reduce electricity prices, which increased 200 per cent and slightly from 2 and 5 October 2000 respectively, that a tax on clothing and footwear, food and medicines for children had to be abolished and taxed on textbooks and teachings, as well as on parents who are tied exclusively and have a major impact on child support and education. The SRS believes that it is devastating in this time that, instead of hiring workers, hundreds of thousands of workers are being fired; at this point we have a huge dissatisfaction of citizens, the current government is dropping ratings, the associates are on the streets, and increasingly dissatisfied, the Serbian radicals can tell you because they are in the myths every week, where citizens express enormous dissatisfaction. In favour of this claim, workers' strikes in Serbia are also being made at the moment, and mainly by the railways, bankers, the chemical industry, the metal industry, as well as the state of agriculture. This year they will feel the shadow of childcare and child standard situations in this year for farmers there is no oil regression, no regression of fertilisers, no regression of repromation, so that agriculture has also come to the beggar stick. We Serbian radicals estimate that this law is not reformative, that this law simply wants to be shown in public that the current government is doing something, and we Serbian radicals say - do a good law that will apply for the next ten years. If you do such a good law, ladies and gentlemen, and especially you in power, you will certainly be grateful to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. But I can't thank you citizens of the Republic of Serbia, you've taken power, you're in power, but, as you can see, this year, there will be a million and a half jobless workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19625	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? If not, I'm putting on an amendment... (Petar Jojic, from the post: I withdraw the amendment. ) I find that MP Petar Jojic withdraws the amendment, which ceases to be the subject of discussion in particular. The 20th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miomir Ilic and Dragan Todorovic. People's MP Miomir Ilic wants a word as an applicant for the amendment? The People's Messenger Miomir Ilic has the word. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19626	Dear People's MPs, Madam Minister, the Socialist Party has tabled an amendment to Article 20. Proposal for a law, and the amendment is also related to Articles 19 and 22. I think that the bill, which the proposer considers to have introduced a newspaper and improved the material and social situation of families with children and that it stimulates new generations, is not an improvement compared to an existing legal solution. If we take some legal solutions that have been made regarding the transition from net to gross earnings, if we take that this year the average salary of a normal gross amount of 200 German marks is given, then these figures from the members of this bill are not so promising. Our amendment to Article 20, in which, for single parents, fosterers, guardians and parents of a child distracted by development, for whom it was so brought into disassembly, which is not placed in the stationary, in a social institution, the census established in Article 19 of this Law increases by 20% - we increased the censorship by 10% and 30%, respectively. We believe that this is necessary because families within this censorship have a basis for obtaining this right of 2,750 dinars, which is relative to the situation where children of such parents, guardians and foster parents are not enough in view of the increased costs of such families during child rearing. For this reason, we think that this is no increase for the Republic of Serbia's budget, given that we have examples from practice, let's say our prime minister -- who is responsible for implementing and creating the budget, and we know well that the budget of the Republic of Serbia is planned for the deficit, and that these funds for this category of parents and guardians are no increase -- are now held with his associates by an expensive auction across Serbia, where the horror of these, people and children he visits is in this situation. For this reason, I believe that this amendment is in place, that this is insignificant for the Republic of Serbia's budget and that this amendment should be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19627	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? If not, I'm putting the amendment to article 20 to the vote and asking the MPs to plead. For 54, against 113, the abstentions were not voted 28 out of 195 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Ljubomir Kragovic submitted to the 21st amendment. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19628	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS has tabled an amendment to Article 21 proposing that this member be deleted. The reasons for writing this amendment are one very bad bill, which is so restrictive that it also abolishes the rights that so far existed. Restrictiveness is also seen through the conditions for obtaining the rights to be given under this bill. Otherwise, I would personally like to ask the minister why this law was passed by emergency procedure, why the haste to certain funds that have been guaranteed in the current law to Serbian citizens are being abolished, why the cross-section is being carried out on June 1st, not December 31st, as is usually being cut into one of the legal projects. What irritates, especially me as a Serb from Kosovo and Metohija, is an art. 18, 30 and 33. Then, through the explanation of this bill, the interpretation of certain provisions of this law repeatedly repeats the words "Central Serbia and AP Vojvodina". What about Kosovo and Metohija? What is the fate of our Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija. Why does this law not apply to Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija? Why do you, Madam Minister, write us down in advance? You remove the maternal supplement, help with the newborn equipment, remove the third child supplement. How many demands you've had for the last year and a half from Kosovo Mitrovica, and you haven't taken any positive decisions. Tens of families did not exercise their right by law. I can prove it to you. I have some family and documents. The reason you're alleging that you're removing all these provisions is, for example, one of your sentences: "they come to the nursery by the third child for whom they didn't pay the kindergarten." Now I ask you, what is this data, what is this statistics, who gave you this information to come by. Those who have jeeps are few who have a third child. I think these are individual cases, and an individual case cannot be a pattern for all citizens of Serbia. The largest number of those who have a third child is the necessary help and we are obliged to help them to at least not pay that kindergarten like the others. However, you and that category are now abolishing because there are such individual cases and I think such families can be counted on the fingers of one hand, which thus come to any kindergarten in Serbia, especially in the interior; I am convinced they are not there. You bring out the positiveness of this law through a parental supplement and its one-time payment, as if it were some improvement for our families. I can say it's one hoax, one big con, or, better yet, a Serbian citizen robbery. When I say this, I'm going to give a concrete example -- the legal proposal states that a third child is given a parental allowance of 90,000 dinars. If we now share that 90,000 figure, which is once paid, with the current amount of child's allowance of 1,150 dinars, when it's divided, you get to pay the child's allowance for up to seven years of life, and from seven to 18, that family gets cut off. I think it's more important for the family if it has a constant income of 1,150 dinars a month in the next 18 years of life, or 19, how much of this law is proposed, than what you're going to do once in seven years. It's kind of my assessment as a mathematician of this law issue. In the end, what really irritates me is that the implementation of this law does not require material resources. I'm saying he's got extra material resources. Now where do these funds spill over? If we cut off our families, especially children, who are then destined for these funds that will be cut off by this bill compared to the previous law that has been in force so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19629	Anybody else answer for a word? Yeah. ) The word has been delivered by MP Aleksandar Vucic, representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19630	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the MP group of the SRS has been trying amendments to the article. 14, 16, 19th and 20th to affect the change of bad legal provisions. However, since we failed to do so, and all amendments of the SRS MPs were obviously prepared, and harmonised in a unique way, since they would fully regulate the entire area, the whole legal matter, so this amendment, if accepted, would not mean any improvement and would represent nothing for children. In any case, because the ruling majority, the government had no understanding to accept the previous amendments to the SRS parliamentary group, such a member of the 21st simply has to remain, because someone has to comply with the Life Cost Index and it has to be the Republic Authority of the Administration responsible for this social area. That is why the SRS parliamentary group is withdrawing this amendment. In the meantime, I have to say that we took the Law on Social Care of Children once again, checked everything we talked about and what we talked about and, indeed, if you apply these censorships that were mentioned earlier, and whose increase was predicted by Serbian Radicals and others in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, they are prescribed. The Serbian government has not even had any innovation in this respect, has offered nothing new to the people and citizens of Serbia, and not even that for children distracted by development or disabled children, the censors are increased from 20% to 30%. It just shows how the right technical laws, how they are manufactured, could not be told to the people and that Serbian citizens have their eyes stained as reforms flow, that they will live much better, and that better life has nothing to do with it. It's an empty story, promises that will never be made. So, as I said, because previous amendments to the SRS have not been accepted, which pointed out how this law should be more regulated and what would be in the interest of the people, what would be in the interest of Serbian citizens, we are forced to withdraw this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19631	The withdrawal of the amendment must be declared by the applicant. I find that the amendment to article 21 has been withdrawn, and it ceases to be the subject of discussion in particular. The 22nd amendment, with a correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Joca Arsic, Branko Ruzic and Toma Busetic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? The word is made by MP Branko Ruzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19632	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, with me my fellow SPS counterparts Joca Arsic and Toma Busetic have submitted an amendment to Article 22 of this Law, the following content: we have suggested that in the first position, where it is said that "the child's allowance for June 2002, for the first, second, third and fourth children, (instead of 900 dinars) is 1,000 dinars" and that the words "by child" are added, given that this first attitude does not define whether this means that these 1,000 dinars, if the amendment is adopted, are assigned by one child or all three children, four or two children. As for the third position, in the amendment, we have defined that the amount of child's supplement, established in accordance with Articles 1 and 2, for single parents, foster parents, foster parents and parents of children distracted in development, is increased by 40% and not 30%, as you have defined in this legislative proposal. As regards the position of the 5th member of the law, which says that the nominal amount of the child's allowance, in accordance with Article 1 to Article 4, is determined by the minister responsible for social issues, we have provided that Section 5 becomes item 4, and that Section 4 is deleted. The 4th position says: For a child whose education or rehabilitation is fully or more than 50%, funding from public expenditures is reduced by 50%. Since it refers to children whose education or rehabilitation is provided with budgetary resources, we have proposed not to reduce children's allowance, as the costs of such children are significantly increased, given the costs of the tour of those children, increased nutrition, increased care and so on. I hope you will adopt this amendment, especially when we have in mind that your policy that you have presented here, these months, has been abolished a maternal supplement that was received 12 months ago. Then, one-time aid for newborn equipment was abolished, a drastically reduced maternity leave -- for three months. Taxes on newborn equipment and baby food have been introduced. In addition, this law reduces the number of users of this financial support, given that the censorship you provided for by this bill is restrictive. Also, given that you have not adopted an SPS amendment that has defined the censorship to be half the average profit. This is all in favor of the fact that, if you want to help families with children, rather than partial, one-time and selectively, you should adopt this amendment. However, of course, you won't do it. It will tell citizens enough what kind of social and population policy you're leading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19633	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) I am putting the amendment to Article 22 on the vote. For 47, against 117 abstentions, there were no 28 votes, a total of 189 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Vujic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The applicant for the amendment isn't here. The word is wanted by MP Aleksandar Vucic, representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19634	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd like to ask you for some patience, I know you're waiting for these solan's little ones, they're coming tomorrow, not today, so hold on for another hour. The amendment of the SRS MP, Mr Bozidar Vujic, is exactly in line with what we have insisted these few days on how long the debate takes in principle and in particular on this law. And there, in an explanation or response to the government why it refuses or does not accept the amendment of Bozidar Vujic, it is evident that the government of the Republic of Serbia is undisciplined. Whoever wrote that, whether it was written by the minister or written by one of the professional services, it doesn't matter. The answer goes again against what the minister said this morning. It is said that the government does not accept it for the reason that the cost of staying in a school institution for children without parental ageing is introduced as a social measure and a measure of support only to those fostering and fostering families who, in addition to realistically poor material status, are entrusted to children without parental ageing. The appeal of the SRS is to erase Article 23's view of equating children without parental ageing, thus equating both foster and foster families. Why would one who has something more be punished, who can afford more if he has already shown his generosity and great love for children by receiving a child, by supporting him, by raising him, by raising him, by providing him with a diet? Now, because he's not as poor as the government imagined, he can't have the security of Article 23. So that is the essence of the amendment of the People's MP Bozidar Vujic, the MP of the SRS. I call upon you to accept it, because even Section 3 is contrary to the position of the 1st member of the law. To avoid such contradictions in one law in our legal order as a whole, please accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19635	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I put the amendments to Article 23 to the vote. For 35, against 105, the abstentions did not vote 43, out of 183 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Petar Misic has tabled an amendment proposing that the name be changed in front of Articles 24 and 24. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The applicant for the amendment is not present. Do any of the other authorized participants want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 30, against 108, a abstentioned one, did not vote 45, out of 184 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic submitted to the 24th amendment. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Dragoljub Stamenković.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19636	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 24(1). The bill reads: "The children of preschool adulthood who are distracted in development have the right to compensation for part of the cost of staying in a preschool institution located in a network of institutions established by the municipality or city, at the level of the participation of the users in the price of the service". The amendment the SRS submitted requires that the words "acts" be deleted. The amendment would read: "Children of pre-school age who are distracted in development have the right to compensation for the cost of staying in pre-school institutions". So, no -- works, but -- costs. The government, in an explanation that rejects the amendment, says - the government does not accept the above-mentioned amendment because, in the position of the 1st member, erasing the words - "parts" essentially does not change the provision. The change is essential, as it is a matter of adoption of the SRS amendment to pre-school children's parents in development would not pay any participation to stay in pre-school institutions, and in this case, as the Government's proposal, in Article 24, they pay part of these costs. In paragraph 2, which reads as follows: "Right to cost compensation in accordance with Article 1, children distracted in development, provided that they are entitled to a child's allowance in accordance with this law". The Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group is demanding that "under the condition that children's allowance has been granted for them, in accordance with this law", the second view of Article 24 reads: "Right to cost compensation, in accordance with Article 1's stance, is being achieved by children distracted in development". We believe that the parents of children distracted by development have far greater costs and for treating, caring, caring for such children than the parents of children who were fortunate and able to be born completely healthy, to develop completely normal, and that the state must take care and regress the stay of such children in preschool institutions. In general, in a very complex way, you present your draft laws to the public. You say - the electricity didn't add up, it just synchronises the price. You say, heating does not accumulate, but it is a correction of these prices. Or -- there's no increase in cost of life, but prices are consistent with prices in the environment. Well, so here and here. So what we're asking is that the text of the law is clean, that some basic things are respected and that we finally realize that not all parents were lucky to have children who are completely healthy. I've had such luck, but many parents have no such luck and such parents and such children should be helped to, in these complex conditions, in a situation where receiving is very small, or none, and when the cost of life is growing, in some way through the development and work in preschool institutions to train themselves for such a normal life. Children who are thus helped by the state will one day be able, at least through less complex crafts and jobs, to become people who can care for themselves, and in this way, in a later period, when they grow up, the state will have less costs to support them.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19637	The word has Mrs. Minister Gordana Matkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19638	I'd just draw attention to two things. The third attitude says, "The preschool institution in which a special group for children distracted in development is organised provides costs per child at the level of user participation in the service price." That's, let me say, something most people probably don't understand. If children are more difficult to interfere with in the development, special groups are organized for them. This is where the costs of these groups are compensated. So that's something the Department of Social Affairs has done before. So, all the children who are more likely to be distracted in development are covered in this third attitude. As far as this part is concerned, as the first point of view puts it, the first point is to make up for the part paid by the user at the price of the service. So it's free for a parent. The interpretation of the legal service is to make up for the part, which is clear as it says - at the level of the user's participation in the price of the service; the user is, of course, a parent.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19639	Anybody else answer for a word? Here's a word from MP Aleksandar Vucic, representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19640	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I should, and of course I don't do it for demagogue reasons, but because it seems to me that every MP should feel that way, that we are particularly concerned about children being distracted by development and keeping an eye on every word, every letter, to carry out a legal and technical redistribution where it is necessary, in order to, in their best interest, bring the law. In fact, Article 24 speaks about the cost of staying in a preschool institution for children distracted by development. Minister Matkovic recently referred to the third position of this member, which says a pre-school institution organised by a special group for children distracted by development provides child-related costs at the level of the user's participation in the service price. These special groups don't get that much education. Why especially separate children distracted by development. It's a small category of our population. It's a small number of such children. There's no need to especially classify them. Secondly, we have a big problem, I don't know how much you know, I'm sure the minister won't let me make a mistake, that we don't have a secondary school in Serbia today for children distracted by development, who are mentally preserved, but those children go, believe it or not, even in Podgorica. Unfortunately, we obviously didn't take care of it enough. Today's government is even less, and that's why we're asking, there's no lawyer here, let's get one of the lawyers out of DOS, I don't have to say that as someone who's a lawyer, it's pointless to stand this thing, in the first place, where it's said that pre-school children who are distracted in development have the right to compensation for part of the cost. Even if you were right, Madam Minister, that "act" would be too much, it would be rogue, it would be legal groundless if it didn't have its essential meaning. So, if you think it's just a legal-technical order, I call on you to accept the amendment of the SRS MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic, especially because of attitude 2 which again, in a certain way, restricts the right to compensation -- only children who are distracted in development do so, provided that they are entitled to a child's allowance. If someone crosses those 2,750 dinars or does not exercise the right to a child's allowance, then they will not have this right again, even though it is a child distracted by development. That is why I call on you to accept the amendment of MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic, representative of the SRS parliamentary group. I'm sure neither you nor anyone else in the parliamentary majority will repent. Besides, I think we've submitted a large number of very good and very serious amendments. None of these amendments have been accepted today. Here, at least on this case, you need to show your good faith and accept this amendment of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19641	Are any of the other authorised promoters answering for a word? Nobody. I put this amendment to the vote. For 37, against 116, the abstentions were not voted 36, out of the 189 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 25th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here's a word from MP Dragan Colic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19642	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Article 25 of Section 1 should read: "Children of pre-school age without parental ageing in social protection institutions, children with developmental disorders in social protection institutions and pre-school institutions have the right to an organised educational and educational programme of three to five hours a day." This right must not be tied to the material position of the family. The proposed solution is much more restrictive than the existing solution, so it is unacceptable. What financial support family with children are all about, when children share, group, when differences are made. We Serbian radicals believe that children represent the greatest treasure and joy, and they are all equally important and dear to us, so we would not participate in such a courtship that some get less and more. Why are some solutions in the proposed law more restrictive than the existing ones? How can the government of the Republic of Serbia convince me that it really wants good in this sphere? This same government that brutally introduced taxes on child's most elementary needs - food, shoes, clothes, school supplies. The birth of a child and all that is necessary for him in the first days is about 1000 marks. Do such conditions stimulate young couples to have as many children as possible? I believe this bill is a marketing move from the government to create an illusion that the government is doing something and is seriously engaged in the sphere of social policy. It is clear to the citizens of Serbia, and you will not deceive them, because you have blessed your reigns with many families in Serbia, unfortunately, feel and suffer. This bill will not change anything qualitatively in this sphere, but a selective approach will further worsen the situation of families and children will not be treated equally. I believe that this law is needed by the government to simulate childcare in front of the bitter citizens of Serbia and eventually reduce budget costs in examining the rights of a large number of users. Thanks to the government, many workers, fathers, and mothers have lost their jobs, and children without basic living conditions are denied for many life’s joys when they need life’s joy most. We Serbian radicals, we want and we fight that every child has equal status, we advocate a rational and fair social policy. For us Serbian radicals, children represent the greatest treasure and joy, and they are all equally valuable and dear to us, and you DOS men still advocate homosexual marriages and gay parades. History will, unfortunately, remember you by that.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19643	The word has Mrs. Minister, Dr. Gordana Matkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19644	Mr. Colic, this question is not regulated by this law at all. The issue of educational - educational program in the year before leaving for primary school, for three hours a day in the school year is not regulated by this law. That's why it says what it says.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19645	The word is given by MP Aleksandar Vucic, representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19646	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, on Article 25 of the proposed law, MP Dragan Colic submitted an amendment saying that this member and attitude of 1st change and reads: "Children of preschool age without parental ageing in social protection institutions, children with development disorders in social protection institutions and preschool institutions have the right to an organised educational and educational programme of three to five hours a day". The government explained that these issues are not regulated at all by the proposed law. What was the meaning of this amendment, I'll explain in two examples. In fact, Article 25, point 1 states that preschool children from materially endangered families, as well as children without parental ageing and children distracted in development who have not exercised their right to comply with Articles 23 and 24 of this Law, have, depending on the material position of the family... It is our goal not primarily to depend on the material position of the family, which is going through the whole law, where it is no longer about the measures of population policy, but on the specific measures of social policy, although the minister has tried repeatedly to deny and deny it, but apparently only the reasoning of the Government of the Republic of Serbia has repeatedly denied it so far. The Serbian Radical Party MP group tried to amend a bill that was not good, a bill that had to be very different, if you want to be legally more regulated, but at the same time a law that had to guarantee to parents and children incomparably greater rights than they had received by this law. By prescribing, and even by putting more restrictive provisions than those that exist today in the positive Law on Social Care of Children (it turns out that it is merely the invention of a new law, giving it a different name) and a small denial of the rights of our Serbian family, the government does not want us to avoid the danger of the white plague and obviously has no serious intention to implement a different population policy. Why did I say that I would set another example, and why is this amendment of MP Dragan Colic important? In your newspaper DOS-ovski (honorary exceptions, perhaps with one daily and some weekly newspapers), writes the following thing - it's about applying against the director of a special school in Vranj, a certain Verice Stevanović, and by the way I have no idea which is true. Why does it matter? It is important because it has been reported that these children have their logos, that children distracted in development have their logos, and those children did not have their logos, so it is important to say and make it clear to the law what they are, what educational - educational work must be. I don't know why we should avoid it and why because of our educational - educational work we're going to make another law, so we're going to have ten consecutive laws, and nobody's going to know exactly what law they're going to be able to look at his rights and obligations. The Serbian Radical Party MP group has done everything to convince you to accept some changes, to accept some of our amendments. So far, we have not had that happiness, and I am almost convinced that this last amendment of Serbian radicals will result in the same result. I'm sorry for the good part, not to tell most of you, you don't even care to hear our explanation and our explanation. I know, Mr. Micovic, that you care more about listening to these Solana's little ones, tomorrow they will, but, excuse me, it's important for us to talk about this today. If you want, accept this amendment, and if not, don't. A Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group will vote against such a law.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19647	People's MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the DOS group, spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19648	Mrs. Komic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is difficult to understand what the amendment's intention was here. Should she take care of the children she mentions in her amendment or take advantage of this assembly payphone, in order to once again achieve some kind of political benefit by criticising the government. A member of the law treated with this amendment makes it clear that the resolution ministry, i.e. the Government of the Republic of Serbia, is taking over the compensation of the costs incurred in that area which this amendment has treated through one unacceptable manner. So, since it is clear that no such kind of jurisdiction can be achieved through this law, because it is very clear that it is about the institutions that are formed and the municipalities, i.e. cities, are concerned. The state fulfils its obligations by regressing the costs, and whoever thinks it is necessary to further regulate this area should propose a law, not a pointless amendment, which only takes time and yet again in an incorrect way politicises the segment of life, which in itself should not be subject to such a violent party performance.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19649	The word has a minister, Mrs. Gordana Matkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19650	This is important to say for the users - I probably wasn't precise enough. So, all the members of the Social Care Act concerning children related to the educational programme in the year preceding their departure to primary school, for a period of three hours a day in the school year, remain valid until the Ministry of Education has passed a law on preschool institutions and it is not precise. In that sense, I said that this law does not regulate that part, since that part remains valid until its definitive regulation within preschool institutions. In that sense, it doesn't regulate this law. [[Employer Alexander Vukic is looking for a replica.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19651	The basis for the replica - the presentation of MP Cedomir Jovanovic, he commented. There is a word from MP Aleksandar Vukic, a replica to the presentation of MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19652	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the SRS parliamentary group in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, seems to me today, and in previous days, and in previous months, regardless of the heifer being led against Serbian Radicals, regardless of the complete ban on Serbian radicals appearing in any electronic media at the central level in Belgrade, and the ban applies only to the Serbian Radical Party, will let some other opposition parties, on a spoon, but not to us for a living head, no matter how much pressures, no matter what falsification or fiction, on all defamations, we have not shown any kind of aversion at any time, nor have we told you how we will repay you one day. It doesn't occur to us. Nothing in my statement, nor in the speech of the MPs of the SRS, was scarred, no one invented anything. I said one thing that apparently nobody wanted to take care of. I am sorry that the Minister did not pay attention to this, it was the essence of the opposition of Serbian Radicals and National MP Dragan Colic, which is the central part of the position of the first Article 25, which again speaks of the dependence on the material position of the family, which is what we seem to have, in ten or fifteen amendments today, insisted on, that is what we were talking about, that is what not only the programme's commitment to the SRS is, but it seems to me that something should apply to all MPs, to all MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, I understand you, as political opponents, are looking for an opportunity to point out some of our illogicalness, to point out something where we might be wrong, but where it happened, where it was illogically or illogically with previous members or attitudes, where we submitted amendments, we ourselves, because the previous amendments were rejected, and the amendments were withdrawn, so that we also took account and knew well when and where the amendment was to be in front of the MPs; and, of course, we felt that the MPs should support that amendment. And it's easiest for the parliamentary majority not to be interested in it, because you know in what conditions and what time we had to write such amendments, how much we worked to write these amendments. It's the easiest thing to laugh, not to support other people's work, not to support other people's engagement and say what you're doing, you're doing to attack us as political opponents. Remember that parliament has the root words Latin, French and Italian, meaning - talk, talk. That's what the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is for, not for other things, but for what I should do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19653	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I am putting the amendment to Article 25 to the vote and asking the MPs to plead. For 35, against 121 abstentions, there were no 36 votes, out of 192 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of Đura Lazic, Rade Bajic and Stevan Z. Guduric together submitted the 26th amendment. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word on behalf of a group of MPs? There's a word from MP Stevan G. Guduric.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19654	Dear Mrs. Comic, Mrs. Matkovic, colleagues and fellow MPs, with me my colleagues Đura Lazic and Rade Bajic, from the SPS parliamentary group, have submitted an amendment to Article 26. Article 26 of point 1 states: "The Minister responsible for Social Affairs prescribes closer conditions and means of exercising the right to: compensation for income during maternity leave, leave of work for the care of the child and absence from work for special care of the child; parental allowance", etc. We have suggested that the words "proximity" be deleted, because conditions for the exercise of the right to trust should be laid down by law, and the minister can determine how they are achieved. Overall, the SPS parliamentary group will vote against this law at the end of this debate, given that we are looking for a basis for why we should be - yes. I think the law is completely detached from life, because, you know, the second and third children usually come after the first, and as far as I understand life, today young couples should be stimulated to have the first child, so when they give birth first, then we'll talk about the second and the third, and today the conditions are such that they're hard to commit to having the first child. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19655	Do any of the other authorized participants in the cracks want a word? No, I don't. If not, I am putting Amandamdn to the vote and asking the MPs to plead. For 45, against 122, a abstentioned one, was not voted 29, out of a total of 197 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 37th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Đura Lazic, Milan Jankovic and Joca Arsic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word on behalf of a group of MPs? There is a word from MP Djura Lazic, as representative of the group of MPs, to the amendments to Article 37.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19656	The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Madam Ministers, dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I expected that this bill, with some amendments in mind, would be a real incentive for a population policy in our country. However, after the firm conduct of the government's representative, Madam Minister, and the non-acceptance of certain amendments, which could eliminate some shortcomings, indeed this law resembles a transparent marketing, as one colleague said. Our amendment refers to Article 37 in Part Five, Transitional and Final Provisions. We suggest that in this article, in paragraph 5, the following text be placed behind the word "later", and added: "as for a child who, on the day of entry into force of this law, turned seven". With this proposed amendment, we wanted in some way to mitigate or eliminate a discriminatory relationship with children, at least to help children through this new chapter of the parental supplement introduced by this bill, that this parental supplement does not only apply to children born after the entry into force of this law, but also to children who have less than seven years of age on the date of entry into force of this law. In this way, I think we would also help young parents who have one or two children, and later intend to have a third and fourth parents. That way we would really stimulate them on the plan of increasing the number of children, and in this way I think we're just going to destimulate the population policy in our country. A colleague, Kragovic, encouraged me with one sentence around Kosovo and Metohija. Indeed, several members of the law mention the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina, and nowhere does Kosovo and Metohija. It is not surprising to me when I know of the fact that a census in the Republic of Serbia started yesterday, and that this shop is not being carried out in Kosovo and Metohija and that those people are not being included, I mean Serbs and non-Albanians living there, and they want to be written as citizens of this country. When we don't include them, then I don't find it strange not to mention Kosovo and Metohija in the draft of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19657	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? If not, I'm putting the amendment to article 37 to the vote. For 44, against 135, the abstentions were not voted 19, out of a total of 198 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Radojko Petric and Joca Arsic submitted together to the 38th amendment. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. On behalf of the group, does anyone want a word? Yes, MP Radojko Petric has a word as an applicant for the amendment to Article 38.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19658	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, Honored Madam Ministers, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, along with counterpart Joco Arsic, I have submitted an amendment to Article 38. A bill of this law. We have proposed, by amendment, that, in addition to the other provisions and as proposed by the Government, the provisions of Articles 19 and 20 be maintained. The law on child care. In particular, it is a proposal to continue to pay mothering and help families to equip newborns. I remind you that the right to a mother's allowance was given to every single mother who wasn't in a working relationship, so the one who wasn't employed. She had the right to have three children for 365 days from the day of birth. The right to a maternal supplement was also a mother for the fourth child, if she had a residence in the municipality or parts of the municipality where a negative rate of population growth was present. Monthly payoff was moving at the height of the child's allowance for the third child. As the government's proposal was adopted, I think that since 1 June of this year, the children's allowance is 900 dinars, this would be about 10,800 dinars by adopting the amendments to the total payment of the mother's allowance for a year for an unemployed mother. Although it is relatively small means, it means a lot to the family where the mother is unemployed, and in fact even more so, as we pointed out today in the debate in principle, psychologically, that the unemployed mother knows that she is valued, and not only in the family, but that she is appreciated in society as a whole, that she appreciates this contribution and motherhood. The second part of the amendment proposes to keep the payment of aid for newborn equipment. The right to help with the baby’s equipment had every mother for the first three children in the family, and for the fourth if the mother lived in the area where the negative rate of population growth was expressed. The aid for newborn equipment amounted to around 3,800 dinars, and it would indeed not be a burden for public consumption, nor for the budget to continue. I think that based on the debate held last Thursday and today, it could be concluded that more effort is needed in demographic policy and providing more incentive resources to increase the natural growth of the population. By accepting this amendment and by retaining the payment of a mother's allowance to unemployed mothers, as well as paying for newborn equipment, this would be achieved in one small part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19659	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) I am putting the amendment to Article 38 on the vote. For 47, against 135, a abstentioned one, did not vote 16, out of a total of 199 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Since we have completed the review of the Bill's proposal in particular and the decision on the amendments submitted, does the proposal's representative, Dr Gordana Matkovic, the Social Affairs Minister, want the final word on the basis of Article 140? The word has Mrs. Minister, Dr. Gordana Matkovic
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19660	Maybe just a few things to point out once again, why this went by the emergency procedure, because it's one of the questions that were being asked. In order for the law to take effect from June 1st, the rights could be realised, it takes time for people to apply, and you know that there are a large number of users and potential users of these rights, so there has to be a proper time. It can't all come into effect on June 1st and then start paying off immediately. Another thing that's important to point out, it would be good if there were more measures, if there were more giving, if the censorships were more favourable, but there are budgetary constraints and there's something that's meant for this area. So what was the Ministry's intention is that those resources that are available are used as efficiently as possible and to bring the families that are users of these funds into as equal a position as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-02-0.u19661	I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. I'm putting the draft law on financial support for the family with children, in general. For 142, against 52, the abstentions were not voted six out of 200 MPs. I find that the National Assembly passed most of the votes a bill on financial support for the family with children. This concludes today's work and continues the session tomorrow at 10.00 hours, continuing the regular session on the third item of the agenda and the debate on the starting basis for the reshuffle of Serbia-Montenegro's relations. Thank you.
