ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23749	Dear President, honourable MPs, you have before you the proposal for a law on a security-intelligence agency. The basis for the adoption of this law is Article 72(3). The constitution, which determines that the Republic of Serbia regulates and secures the security of the Republic of Serbia and its citizens. The reason for the law's proposal is for the government of the Republic of Serbia to put under civilian control the Security Service. It is good that this proposal is discussed together with the proposal for a law on the organisation and jurisdiction of state authorities to combat organised crime. These two legislative projects represent the realisation of the ministry's reforms and the legal regulation of interior areas. The package also includes new laws on internal affairs or police law, as well as the State Security Service's file law. Appropriate expert teams of the ministry, a number of NGOs, the Ministry of Justice and the Legislative Secretariat were involved in the development of these legal projects. The bill was made by the National Security Resora Working Group, the NGO Lex and the Legislative Secretariat. Legal practice and regulation of the security system in the countries of the European Union, the United States, the countries of transition and our own positive experience have been used in the work. I would like to remind you that the concept of reform and that these working texts were the subject of a major expert consultation in Vrnjačka Banja, where many domestic and foreign experts took part in this area. In particular, I would like to point out that the strategic document on the reform of the Ministry of the Interior has been supported by the Government and the Committee on Defence and Security of the National Assembly. It made our job a lot easier for us as proposings. The fact that today you have no proposals for the remaining two laws does not prevent you from adopting a proposed law on a security-information agency, as well as a law on fighting organised crime. These legal projects are in the final phase of production, but there are no grounds for their adoption by emergency procedure at an emergency session. Their realization does not require a new organization and a great time for their implementation, as laws that are on the agenda. On the contrary, I think it is a good idea to organise the widest public debate in the entire Republic. It is expected to be on the agenda at the first fall of the National Assembly. By then, a process will be carried out to single out a security-informative agency, so that full attention will be given to the new police law. The essence of the proposal for a law on a security-intelligence agency is as follows: the current security portfolio is set out from the composition of the MUP and established as an independent state agency. The Agency will, as soon as possible, carry out intelligence and counterintelligence tasks; it will inform the competent state authorities about its work. The agency will take over workers, space, equipment, resources, documentation and archives of the State Security Res. Part of the employee who doesn't need the agency will be deployed to work in the MUP. In the MUP there will also be workers with belonging equipment and resources working on the security of certain persons. The separation process will take place within three months of the date of entry into force of this law. Members of the agency in counterintelligence will have police powers. The agency and the MUP will work together to protect the security of the Republic of Serbia and its citizens, especially in the fight against terrorism and organised crime. A special agreement is being reached on this, as foreseen by the law. For their work, the agency responds to the Government and the National Assembly, which provide guidance for its work. The restriction of citizens' rights regarding the non-violence and secrecy of the letter and other means of communication can only be carried out following the approval of the president of the Supreme Court of Serbia. The members of the agency do not have the right to strike, political and union organization. The agency is run by a director elected by the government. On a proposal from the Director, the Government shall adopt a Regulation on the Organisation and Systematisation of the Agency. The Director shall be empowered to adopt other acts allowing for the legal and efficient work of the Agency. By passing this law, one of the last taboos is removed and demystified by the work of the famous, often and by the ill-known secret service, which has long been a party militia. In the last decade, she and her members have often been abused to commit a series of crimes, from participation in cigarette smuggling, through persecution of political opponents, to liquidation with a political background. It's definitely the point of such a situation and possible abuse. The new agency will be richer for these experiences and in everything organised as a modern security service. The Agency is an independent and rounded continent, a special state body with legal status. The agency is an integral part of the overall defence and security system of the Republic of Serbia. I believe that the new agency, freed from the mortgage of the past, will successfully carry out the jurisdiction given by law and that the security of the Republic and its citizens will be at an enviable level. It will certainly contribute to investment in personnel and conditions for the work of this service, as well as the continuing concern of the Government and this National Assembly for its work and its problems. A large number of amendments received speak of your interest in this important law. All this promises a creative debate and I hope that, after a constructive debate on both of these laws, they will adopt themselves in an improved variant. No proposal is ideal that it cannot and should not be repaired and I call on you, on behalf of the government, to work together to get Serbia and its citizens the safety and information agency they deserve.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23750	Does the word "proposer" Mr. Vladan Batic want? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23751	Dear Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the fight against organised crime, as the monsters of modern humanity that has affected Serbia, is one of the priorities of the government of the Republic of Serbia. A system of disrupted values, the edge of the former regime with large capital and crime, made it more and more resembling a Balkan "banana republic" in the time behind us. As a responsible government, the government of the Republic of Serbia does not want this country to remind Colombia or Belgrade, Novi Sad or Nis of Bogota, Kali or Medellin. In the fight against organised crime, to which corruption has contributed, both hypocrisies and nepotism in certain parts of the public sector, as well as quite mild criminal policy, slowness, inefficiency and the like, the Government of the Republic of Serbia is aware that it poses a threat to building a democratic society based on the principles of the rule of law and legal certainty. As an expression of determination in countering all occurrences of organised crime, it is proposed that a special law be adopted to regulate the organisation, authority and position of special organisational units in state bodies, competent to detect and prosecute the perpetrators of organised crime. This law is a prerequisite for an effective fight against the expansion of this dangerous phenomenon in society and for the first step towards a set-up of special state bodies to deal in the perspective of fighting organised crime. Thus, the law seeks to improve and institutionalise the existing organisation and forms of fighting, without violating a system of judicial and police institutions that are competent to fight organised crime. Therefore, this law is the cornerstone of future legislative solutions, and the proposed legislative solutions will pass through their check in practice. The existing system of judicial institutions and other bodies dealing with the detection and prosecution of the perpetrators of the most serious crimes against life and body, public and state security is not equipped with the necessary means and there are no trained personnel to fight organised crime effectively. The current legislative solutions do not allow for a single law to regulate this area, because, unfortunately, the procedural and legal legislation is within the jurisdiction of the federal parliament. In order to preserve and affirm the rule of law and respect the rules, despite the fact that the other federal unit rules at federal level, in particular when it comes to criminal proceedings, does not respect at all, the legislator of the law, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, however, wanting to respect what is provided for by the provisions of federal law, has prepared two draft laws, one of which today is on the agenda, and that is the proposal for a law on the organisation and jurisdiction of state authorities in the repression of organised crime; the second proposal we have sent to the federal government, as a formal proposer in the Federal Assembly, which is the law on special rules of procedure. These two laws, the one that we need to adopt today, and the future, or existing Criminal Procedure Act, are in collegiate. In order to avoid this conflict, it is necessary to pass a special law that regulates this area from a procedural and legal position, as regards the fight against organised crime. This second law will represent a special criminal-processing matter that will regulate the conduct of competent authorities in the detection and prosecution of perpetrators of organised crime; it introduces new institutes, such as undercover investigators, controlled delivery, witnesses of the defendants, temporary confiscation of assets that are suspected of being the subject of the execution of a crime in the field of organised crime, special protection measures of witnesses, even the possibility of covert listening, recording, etc., which is a feature of all contemporary European legislation in this area. During the period preceding the creation of a law on the organisation and jurisdiction of state authorities in the prevention of organised crime, representatives of the Member States of the European Union and the United States of America have indicated that the effective prevention of organised crime and the prosecution of the perpetrator of a crime of terrorism is one of the most significant preconditions for preserving stability in the region of Southeast Europe. In order to improve international and legal co-operation to prosecute perpetrators of organised crime, as world issue number one, the SRJ has ratified a number of international conventions. Thus, it passed laws confirming the UN Convention against Transnational Crime and Supplemental Protocols, the European Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism, the Rome Agreement on the International Criminal Court, as well as the Law on Co-operation with the Hague Tribunal for Criminal Crimes and the criminal prosecution of persons responsible for serious violations of international humanitarian law in the territory of the former SFRY. The SRJ has also committed to bring specific regulations to codify and fully regulate the area, so to fight organised crime. The Criminal and Legal Convention of the Council of Europe states in its text that any signatories of the Convention will adopt such measures as may be necessary to ensure that persons or institutions can specialize in the fight against organised crime. Also, this includes fighting corruption. The proposed law on the repression of organised crime, to simplify its title, is in line with the Constitution of the SRJ and the Criminal Procedure Act, with the Republic Public Prosecutor's Law and other judicial regulations in the Republic. These laws of organisations and authorities in the prevention of organised crime have been governed by the reputation of other countries, which have been successfully fighting and dealing with all forms of organised crime for many years. So, by not taking part in the analysis of certain provisions, because during the debate, it will be possible for us to deal with them, I want, as a summary, to realize that key institutions under this law will aim only at one thing - to combat organised crime and to engage in the fight against terrorism. The advantage these newly educated authorities will have in relation to the already existing views is in the much wider powers which are precisely laid down by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23752	I thank the minister. The word is made by the Prime Minister, Mr. Zoran Djindjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23753	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the advantage and strength of the state in relation to crime, among other things, is that a criminal is an individual, and has an organization and institutions that express the strength and determination of the entire society to comply with certain rules, so that the laws are respected. When we deal with organised crime, this advantage decreases, because then on one side we have a state and its organizations, but on the other we don't have an individual who breaks the law, but also an organization. And then the question arises, which is an organization under the given circumstances stronger and which organisation can impose its rules on a society. However, the situation is getting dramatically worse and in some countries it is real and real, when on one side we have unrelated institutions, a society with many other problems, and in this area where the protection of the law cannot concentrate great will and great resources, and on the other hand we have small but effective organisations. At that time, the advantage of the state, having a monopoly on the application of force and the protection of the law, turns into an advantage of organisations that are stronger and stronger than the institutions of the state, which at some point do not have to be effective enough to protect the order that the citizens have entrusted them with. And that's the situation in our country. For certain reasons, the institutions in our country are not strong enough, interlinked and coordinated to withstand the demands and needs of extreme situations. They're good enough and connected enough to function normally, with problems we all know. So they're in the transformation phase, and they're adapting to new circumstances. In front of the institutions of the transition society, you have two tasks: one is to perform day-to-day tasks and function, while others change their character, their essence and prepare for some new roles. These institutions should have very high capacities and be very efficient in order to carry out both tasks successfully; and usually this is not the case. It's not really the case in our country. We must sincerely look at reality, analyze it and see where there are deficits in the functioning of our society's institutions and define special instruments for special situations without special theory. Because the alternative is simple: that we try to perfect all the institutions, strengthen it, it will go its own course, and one day it will end with success, but in the meantime we will be inferior to some opponents of these institutions who are better organized and at some point have greater power; or we will, on the other hand, make a police state that, in order to counter the danger in one part of society, conduct some kind of police surveillance in the whole society, some kind of general prevention, and in fact, even society will make a hostage of one segment of that society, such as organised crime. However, we can still, which is our proposal today, try to make in the part of the system institutions that would be designed and trained to deal effectively with one part of social problems, and try to isolate the rest of society from this and not be the victim of the circumstances given, but the other part of the legal system, the institutional system, develops with normal dynamics; as society develops, that its institutions develop. Other countries, which have longer experience with the development of institutions than we have, have joined this model. The first Italy, a country where organised crime is born, which has special laws, is part of the experience we have also taken over; then European countries that have also become the target of organised crime in the last ten or fifteen years. So let's look at how in our situation these opportunities, as a system, of the state and of the institutions, are looking at the phenomenon of organised crime. The first line of touch is when, for example, A police officer of the M.O.P. is due to conduct a search or conduct a suspect in organized crime. That cop is an officer who has his name and family, lives somewhere in the suburbs, has a small salary, has nothing special protected, and now he's coming to face someone who has an organization behind him. Whose side is the risk in this case. Of course, the risk is on the side of that individual policeman, who will be recognized, whom a criminal can even direct to at that moment, without any consequences; realistically, that policeman can have great damage from doing his job; that possibility is not theoretical, it is also practical. Whether that policeman will be very zealous in doing his job or try to avoid that job. I think it's natural that he'll try to avoid it, because he has "bad cards" compared to the one he's trying to enforce the law over. Look at the judge who needs to make a verdict on someone for whom there is evidence that he was involved in organized crime. He's in the same position as this cop. He has his family, his private life, and no special protection, and especially not from an organization that specializes in violence. Whether this judge will be particularly motivated, or whether he will have some high degree of enthusiasm to bring a severe punishment, to defend justice and the system of endangerment to which they are exposed. Understandably not. Imagine a witness; imagine a prison clerk who should then enforce the law and apply the rules applicable to other prisoners in prison to a criminal. So if we look at real life in Serbia today, we see that the state system is weaker than the organised crime system. These aren't individual cases, they're everyday cases. We have a problem with the original situation - a state conceived as someone who has a monopoly power and uses it to protect the law and order, legitimateized by national will, by checking through democratic institutions, such as the judiciary, parliament, the media, so that those who want to bring down this order in a huge handicap - are turning the risk in this situation, not the one who violates the law, but the one who enforces the law. Whoever breaks the law, and I'll read you some information about criminal policy in our country, is relatively risk-free. So, if there's really a rat he can in one of ten cases get stuck in prison, but in nine other cases he'll go through with parole or he'll never get a sentence, because it'll take so long for the proceedings to end up making sense. Now -- a question of the character of organised crime; we are talking about a situation, a state, officials of the state, criminals, those who break the law, and of course these are some general considerations, but the fact is that these general considerations are applicable to the situation in our country and that we really have elements of organised crime. These elements of organised crime are something different than in other transition countries because our direct past is something different. This direct past is characterized by two elements that are slightly different from in other countries in transition, which are seven or eight years of sanctions and total economic isolation of the country, wars in the environment that led to the rise of the presence of weapons and the descent of the threshold of preparedness to violence in our everyday behavior. If you have this violence in large quantities all around us, then individuals in their behavior are prone to apply force, and if they have weapons that are easy to gain, then they also have instruments to apply that force. On the other hand, if you had the inability to do legitimate business in the country for many years, then it was natural, and it was not even a matter of individual decision, but of adapting the system to create a gray zone where representatives of government, business and crime would cooperate to circumvent sanctions and that business and life would take place despite the conditions of isolation. A primitive organism, a parameter, when found in a new situation, it adapts to it by creating some new survival mechanisms. Of course that's what society does, and one of the systems of adaptation in isolation is avoiding isolation through the creation of informal communication channels, for goods, money, decisions and everything else. Therefore, a situation is inherited where we can really talk, perhaps not about the mafia as it is said in international criminal law in relation to Italy and similar countries, but about elements of organised crime that really require special control mechanisms. Someone says -- if you know all of this, we often hear it in the media, why it hasn't been cleaned up already; if it's known that there are so many groups that look like organized crime and so many individuals involved, which is why it's not already in prison. Knowing something and having evidence that's valid for a court is not the same. And Al Capone was known as the boss of the mob, so he got stuck in jail for tax evasion because they could prove it to him. So it's not so simple to come up with methodical knowledge, which consists of evidence, witnesses, and in procedures that then end successfully in court and putting criminals in prison. There is one problem for the whole system in which our society reacts to the phenomenon of crime; I will briefly list six links in that chain and problems in each of these links. This solution that we are proposing today as temporary, the formation of certain organisations and certain specific competences, must, in fact, be an element of the integrated strategy of our society in countering crime, and of course can only end with the adoption and implementation of this law. So, the first link in the system and in the chain of state response to crime is the criminal police. It should identify; the subject of a criminal offence, individuals involved, an organisation, to collect evidence, to have elements that will lead to judgment in court. However, we have poorly equipped criminal police, both technical and humane, poorly trained people who do so and a major deficit in certain parts of the police. So, for example, in Belgrade, we have 15 officers, as I was informed a month or two ago, and by systematization there should be 150 of them. So for part of organized crime, which in our opinion is key and is used to fund all other types of crime, we don't have enough people. Not because we don't have money in the budget to finance it, but because there isn't enough interest because that position is very risky, as I said at first, and there is no integrated system for protecting people who do it. Now, if you think you're sending someone as an out-of-state platoon into enemy lines and leaving him without support, then of course you'll find it hard to find someone who'll sacrifice his life without significant results. By comparison, in Moscow, which has 9 million inhabitants, 100,000 police officers, in Belgrade, with close to 2 million inhabitants, were engaged around 4. Thousands of cops. That means five times less. I'm not saying there should be many more cops, but certainly their legal position and the instruments to do their job have to change. A bad tradition in the past few years has been that it is not the developed criminal police in our country, but the second part, the uniform police, which should protect public order and peace on the street. There were certain reasons for that, but the problem remained. The part that needs to be preventively and effectively combat organised and economic crime is technical, cadrarian and from the point of view of training and training very undeveloped. It can't be solved in one or a few days, but we need to realize that we can't expect such institutions to have world results and that we need to be aware of the reality in which we live. Our goal is for criminal police, as a central part of the police, to further improve technical, personal, to get modern training if possible in other countries' police, which have great experience in curbing organised crime. But it's a process that requires a certain amount of time. That's the first link. The second link is the court. He's slow, showing the hearings every six months, barely succeeds in enough time to solve any of these difficult cases. In 2000. In the year, for these parts we're talking about, it was 17% in 2001, 7.2% in judgments. In a year, practically 10 or 15% of the verdict is made. It takes five to seven years to pass a verdict in some serious crime in the domain of organised crime we're talking about. In other countries, there are priorities; serious criminal acts and acts considered to be an attack on the order are a priority for solving, not worse, not quickly, not over the knee, but are not scheduled for hearings for six or 10 months; a large number of judges and investigative authorities are working on it until the case is resolved that matter is not left in the drawer. The third link is laws, which are completely incomprehensible to our country mild, inadequate; they only make it easier for judges to work in case there are confessions, that there are witnesses, two and three witnesses who want to make a statement or if the perpetrator confesses himself. Everything else is an indecisive riddle for the court, given our laws. They're just in principle, I've read them many times in the past two or three months, and I think that the writer of these laws had a great interest in protecting criminals, and that the state and society put them in serious trouble to convict anyone for a crime. That's why we have very few people in prisons in our country. I don't claim to be a country now with a lot of prisons and prisoners, but we can't stand out in any other direction. For example, in the United States, there are about 1% of the population in prisons, in our country less than one prominence. We can say that criminal policy in the United States is too harsh, but is it possible that there are ten times less crimes in our country than in the United States? Whether our laws may be designed to present a picture of a harmonic society where actually criminals are people who had some problems in their childhood, so there's little behavior they've changed, but they'll be able to do parole and reproof to fix themselves. If so, then as a government and as a law-making parliament, we have a great obligation to protect society from false humanistic prejudice, which is that organized and violent crime will be sanctioned by warnings and sermons. He can only be sanctioned by a harsh criminal policy. Crime must bear the risk to an individual. Crime can't be worth it. If crime pays off, then we're a society that encourages crime. According to our legislation and our criminal policy, crime in Serbia is worth it. It's a miracle he's gone a lot more, given that it's much less a risk to deal with crime today than to start a private company. You're much more likely to go bankrupt, that the bank will release acceptive orders, block your accounts, than you have the risk that if you're caught stealing, you'll be convicted. Not to mention speaking in my mind about statistics, let's say criminal policy on one of the most serious types of crime, which is narcotics, drug production and illicit drug trafficking. Thus, in 2002, 85 charges were filed for the crime, 15 convictions were handed down, of which 7 parolees. So every tenth criminal caught producing and trading drugs was sentenced to prison. Half of them are sentenced to parole. In 2001, in the year in which the change occurred in our society, the situation was even worse: 97 charges were filed, 7 were convicted, and 4 were suspended. In 2001, only three criminals, who produced and traded drugs, went to prison; each 20. Given the big money that's in the game, given the big profits, if every 20 gets hurt, I don't think that's a bad job. Whether we're the society we need from drug trafficking and drug production to make a lucrative business; I don't think we should be. It's not a interference in an independent judiciary, it's a legitimate requirement for society to defend itself against one evil, for which the state must have effective mechanisms, and clearly not. That's the third link, the bad criminal policy, the laws of mild, inadequate, there's a second-degree court that's further down, because from these three, maybe one of the other students will have luck, so he'll get parole. It's something that cannot be tolerated in this society. The fourth link, which facilitates organised crime work in Serbia, is that our laws provide many extenuating circumstances and that in most cases, and we have these statistics, judges exclusively use extenuating circumstances. Our laws also predict difficult circumstances, but they are used in the smallest number of cases. We are asking judges, as parliament, as a government, as a society, not to take into account the excruciating circumstances for serious crimes. They're for other crimes, and I think by changing the Criminal Code, we should throw out extenuating circumstances for the most serious crimes, such as kidnappings, armed robbery, drug trafficking, racketeering, blackmailing people, killing people, ordering to kill people. Fifth point: when sentence is delivered, execution is late and a few years later. If justice skips all these obstacles I've caused, then it comes to that. So a prison sentence has been imposed, until a criminal goes to prison, he has time to commit ten more crimes; and that's what happens. There are people who were convicted for the fifth time in court for stealing cars and then it turns out that they were in the previous four proceedings, of course because of the same crime, and that they should go to prison for several years. But they wait until they go to jail, what else to do than what they know best and what's most worth it to them, that is. They steal cars. It's a thing that needs to change. And finally, the sixth link, also very important, is the prison regime. Because of the risk I was talking about at the beginning - which is that people from organized crime are actually a greater threat to individuals from the country than the reverse state endangering them - it's hard for prison officials to apply the prison regime to everyone in the same way. It's a public secret that killers get weekend off, get out of jail and come back Sunday night. It's something terribly worrying. It's necessary, this bill of law, a strict prison regime, primarily criminal acts dangerous to our society and fellow citizens, and these are crimes with a violent element in them. What should the Thai look like to protect society from crime after the changes we all want together -- I'm not talking about parties, I'm talking about government, I'm talking about citizens of Serbia and all of you -- first of all, as I said, strengthening the criminal police, technically, human and professionally. First, special formations are needed to contain dangerous types of crime, with the protected identity of intervention officers, so that when they arrest, arrest, arrest and search his identity cannot be so easily discovered, that his family and he are not exposed to the retribution of organised crime. Secondly, we need to tighten the laws and adapt them to European standards, to protect witnesses, to allow the police to have their own information in organised crime, to enable the application of modern techniques, that in the first place they are not some abstract human rights of the UN, because no state that asks us to do so, criticising this law, in its own country there is no such thing. So the basic human right of citizens is to live and sleep peacefully. Whoever breaks the law, he has, of course, his human rights, but they are not a priority in society, which makes him a citizen who pays taxes, respects the law and has the right to a peaceful dream. These are basic human rights and the law in our country should be based on these human rights. Third, in courts, priority should be given to serious crimes. You can't treat a pickpocket and an organized criminal in the same way, nor schedule a hearing for a year, for six months, because the court is overloaded. There's got to be a cross-section tape. It's got to be dealing with some serious crime, after a speedy procedure. Fourth, there are no extenuating circumstances for organised crime. Fifth, a criminal convicted of involvement in organised crime, must be taken to prison immediately, immediately, from the courtroom. No period shall be allowed between the verdict and the commencement of the sentence. The sixth, the prison regime in Serbia needs to change, make it sharp; then build a few prisons. The government and parliament are due in the budget for next year to define the amount to raise several prisons in Serbia. It doesn't make sense that no prison has been made in the last few years. It seems that only there have not been some change, and we have a dynamic in society, the opening of society to the world, the threat of the country from organised crime in a political sense, from terrorism in some parts of our country, while we do not have prison capacity, ready to serve for that purpose. It's obviously not just one single law, but a national strategy, which in a few years should lead to criminals avoiding our country, for our country to be known in the region as uncompromising against all kinds of crime. As with any project that needs to be implemented, more things are needed: political will first; then the institution and structure are prepared for the realization of that political will (this law and the institutions that are resting on it); training and protection of people who participate in it and bear the burden: it is judges, investigative judges, prosecutors, police officers, prison guards; democratic means at the disposal of society to monitor the process, so that these institutions do not become in any way contrary to themselves, in order to carry out the work for which they have been established. I think that there is no doubt about it, like the Government and Parliament, we have a strong political will to deal with this problem. In 2002, we declared the year of determined crime control and I think we can say that in the first six months we have certain results. For example, in the first six months in Serbia, about 1,400 vehicles were stolen less than in the same period last year. It's a very significant success, given that car theft, carjacking was one of the kinds of organised crime. In the first six months of this year, 17 murders were committed in Belgrade, while 31 murders were committed during the same period last year, and that is 50% of the success in curbing this serious crime that upsets citizens. Over the past six months, several serious drug traffickers have been hit. Several organised shipments have been caught at the borders of our country, and this drug was mainly intended for several major cities in Serbia. Serious results have been achieved in suppressing the smuggling of excise products, especially cigarettes. This means that there is no doubt that this government and certainly this Parliament have the political will to launch and successfully complete the action of institutional, personal and technical training of society to effectively oppose every type of crime, especially the most dangerous, and that is organised crime. By this law that will be passed, I'm sure, we cross the first part of the road, we give society the instruments to solve the problem. The other part of the road may be even harder, which means training people who need to work in these institutions to do their job and show that there is no compromise in this society for those who break the law. I'm sure with the same determination for the first, we'll take this second step and make this country a country where criminals have nothing to ask for, but have nothing to lose.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23754	Thank you, Prime Minister. Do the competent committees, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee want the word? There's no word for it. Does one of the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word is from MP Vojislav Seselj, president of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group. A brief notice, a session of the Defence and Security Committee will be held at 11:30 in the O.R. and downstairs.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23755	Ladies and gentlemen, I think the Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic has revealed to all of us the MPs a great secret, something we didn't know and why we should be grateful for. The old international regime is to blame for the outbreak of crime, especially because it built schools, colleges, hospitals, infirmarys, homes of culture, etc. Ladies and gentlemen, I support the idea that only the walls are closed and it's everywhere, in every place, municipally, by local communities, etc. The concept of a society turned into a large prison is actually an ideal concept in which one can rule indefinitely, but unfortunately it is not a society where freedom and democracy can be provided. You can laugh and make fun of yourself, that's your thing, and it even suits me, because I like the power dialogue. Zoran Djindjic here, explaining two legal projects, criticised the situation in the judiciary and criticised the Criminal Law and the Code of Criminal Procedure. There's really a lot of problems here, but this way you don't solve any of these problems. If the problem is bad judicial policy, or criminal policy, then criminal law changes, so the minimum penalty is added there, so the possibility of parole in rape, armed robbery, murder, attempted murder, drugs, etc. is excluded. All this can be done by changing the Criminal Code and the Law on Criminal Procedure of the Court then must follow that law, that it cannot let anyone like that Ljubomir Jovanovic Glass. For attempted murder, and fired into a man eight bullets, the man barely survived, he defended himself with freedom and lasted his process of knowing how much, perhaps for the rest of his life. It can be solved, but by changing other laws. You're obviously trying to achieve a propaganda effect with these two laws and nothing else. As you define special prosecutor status, this is how every prosecutor in Serbia should be. You can't achieve it, you don't have enough quality personnel, there's a danger of being tried for some serious crimes inside. But even under the current Criminal Procedure Act, jurisdiction can be delegated: a trial in Belgrade, and a prosecutor from Belgrade. You know, if you're not looking for this kind of quality with the Republic Public Prosecutor, you can't ask a special prosecutor to be more capable than the Republic Public Prosecutor who appoints him and that special one has three times the salary of his previous salary, that he has more than the authority that appoints him. That's ridiculous. This does not solve the issue of fighting crime. Something else is at stake here. You would have to give up the policies of classification, the qualifications of criminals for good and bad and to realize that all criminals are basically equally bad, and that they can only be classified by the severity of crimes, and there are no useful criminals; there are opponents among criminals, there are good ones, there are bad ones. Too much of this society has gone into this criminal sphere, it's a crime scene. It's not your fault that the crime got so bad, but it's your fault and responsibility that crime and the mafia are now much stronger than before. It's your responsibility. How can it happen that in these two extremely characteristic cases the state doesn't react at all? Today I read in "News" that it's the strongest and most dangerous, there's almost a whole page in "News", the Surinian Mafia, and everybody knows it. They started stealing cars, extorting ransom and came to dominate the drug market today. How can they get a job on Serbia's asphalting, pave the way from Belgrade to Nis, to pave the Ibar highway. When one of those leaders of the Surcin clan was at the Military Academy for treatment, because a woman tried to poison him, how she could sow a huge number of state officials to visit him, to tattoo him, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23756	Please return to the agenda theme. You have concrete legal proposals, not an article in "Evening News."
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23757	It's a topic, fighting organized crime. It's not about this law on women and frogs, it's about crime. You'd best take my word from me right now, seeing as you're in a lot of trouble with what I'm saying. I'm only talking about crime, and this is about the law on fighting organized crime. The concept of the mafia in this country is Stanko Saturday Cane. He used to have the nickname Cane Frog, and now he has the nickname "the respectable businessman". Woe to a country where the greatest criminals reach the title of a prominent businessman and when it comes to him, so he defends himself, as he is removed from the charges, all the TV in Belgrade is available to him, and most of all the BK and Pink TV. I know that in your struggle for power, you've been in a position to get in touch with the people of the underworld, and you've publicly admitted it. That's what Zoran Djindjic publicly admitted. However, there is now the other side of the medal. Those who helped you didn't do it because they were good, because they wanted to make a sincere change of government, but they expect a favor. What is this service, and how will you resolve it? You'd have to answer that question. On the other hand, with this law on the security-intelligence agency, it's actually a law on the so far State Security Service. You show your intention not to improve the work of that service, but to extract from the Ministry of the Interior and to abolish its special unit through this law. Red berets. Maybe there's really a reason to cancel. Personally, I don't think there's any reason for the entire unit to be abolished, but there are reasons why they should be removed, fired, and courtly matched by those who can be proven guilty of crime. Since that unit has been through a great war experience, it can be needed again, and it is the most capable of combating terrorism. Those who have entered the crime scene in that unit, report to the court. Why do you hesitate? You want the whole unit to shut down like this. I'll tell you one more thing. You are here, explaining a law proposing the introduction of a special prosecutor and a special court, saying that you also need this institution because of the prosecution of serious war crimes, in fact, of all that is being prosecuted by the UN tribunal, and is about to leave something to you as well. Recently, a UN tribunal official announced that a trial was planned for sixteen thousand people, soldiers, police officers, etc. in former SFRY space. It's all our press releases, and all that press is under your control. A neighboring country has already prepared a camp for 2,000 people. You see, for a time, you competed in the discovery of mass graves, and then you shut up. They were a propaganda tool to deliver Milosevic to The Hague. However, now it is your generals who have helped you to come to power, who have also helped you maintain power. First of all, there are Sreten Lukić and Goran Radosavljevic - Guri. That is what Zoran Djindjic as Prime Minister and Dusan Mihajlovic as interior minister should know. I was vice-president of the Serbian government when a solution was issued on the education of the interior ministry's headquarters to combat terrorism. It's a "dt" solution, which means state secret 01 number 1580/98 since 1606.1998. I'm not going to tell you about the content of that solution, because I'm obliged to keep it a secret. The government has not yet freed me from the obligation to keep that secret, but I will tell you that then General Sreten Lukic was appointed as the leader. He was a Major General back then. The Hague tribunal is preparing a process for him, but it will remain silent until Ratko Mladic is arrested. As for Goran Radosavljevic-Gurija, The Hague tribunal is preparing to charge him with the murder of the least of the Genesis brothers, and what else I haven't even learned, I can't find out. You know, I have other things I do, I can't do everything. Here's the minister, write down this number, dt 01 number 1580/98. It's a very interesting document. Don't write it down, because it's a state secret. I'm referring only to the minister because he has the right to have this state secret now. The act was signed by then by Minister Vlajko Stojiljkovic. Look at that. What's the tendency in our police force? That all people who participated in the war, who have had a military experience, are eliminated from the police, as a similar procedure is being conducted on a federal level with regard to the Yugoslav Army. That's the point.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23758	Do you use the next 10 minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23759	I'll continue for the next 10 minutes. You can do it, but then the state will lose both the army and the police. So you have to start fighting crime: where it is most painful; where you personally know people in organized crime and where they've done you some credit; so say, for those credits, thank you very much, and now for what you're doing or what you've done before in law you answer. God forbid I say, head goes, head doesn't go to anyone, we've lifted the death penalty. You see, the old regime was unable to deal with organized crime. During the old regime, this organization of large-scale crime began. Once these main criminals had a privileged position and managed to draw in certain police generals, state officials, etc. However, these things have not changed by changing power. The one who was previously involved in large-scale crime, organised crime, the mafia, is still. There's an increase in mob killings. When you look at how many people have been liquidated this year on Belgrade's asphalt, so compare to earlier years, you will see that there has been an increase. There's also something that hasn't been there before. We've never had kidnapping cases like this before. It's happened before that a group of criminals kidnap a murderer, so he keeps him for days, hears him under beatings, tortures, cuts his body off to extort some confessions, then liquidates him. That's what it was. But to kidnap the child of Leprechaun Brena out of pure peace, to kidnap Milorad Miskovic, and this Babovic, and several more abductions were in Serbia which remained unclear. It wasn't a practice before. It's a new negative quality in the work of the mob. I'll mention the Smurfs, I haven't forgotten that. I've only got one thing to talk about. You see, these serious crimes are never about amateur criminals. When such a serious crime occurs, it is a very narrow circle of people and criminal groups who are able to do so. When General Bosko Buha was killed, it was known immediately who could have motive. You knew that right away. Then why are you standing there? Badge knows, Stanko Subotic-Cane, and that's what the police officers who were listening to the polling committee told us, this polling committee of the Federal Assembly. That's what Andrija Savic knows. He remembers everything. He remembers when he arrested me 20 years ago. He remembers everything. Maybe they sent him aside like that to be a professor, I didn't hear he was involved in a crime, he's one of the few I haven't heard he's involved in a crime. You may take him down for this qualification of mine, but do whatever you want. It doesn't matter. You see further, there are war crimes whose perpetrators have not yet been punished. You're not trying to expose it. You've turned into an instrument of the UN tribunal. I even have information that the hearings of certain police and military officers, given to our courts, have been sent to The Hague tribunal, and in The Hague the tribunal only strikes its clause, as if they were heard before them. That's what happened to this deputy police commander from Subotica. A man went to The Hague and turned out to testify in favour of Slobodan Milosevic, not against him. This is where the man said what he saw. He saw: there were these crimes, there were murders. How can you do that? And General Vasiljevic's hearing on Eastern Slavonia was also taken to The Hague and there only the clause was struck: given before The Hague tribunal and not. You shouldn't have done that. Which is the most serious crime our court would have to react to. It's Srebrenica. Today we see statements from some Dutch officers that up to 1,000 people have been killed in Srebrenica. A lot of people who are really criminals have been killed, so as a man, I can't be sorry that a criminal eventually dies, but a lot of innocent people have been killed. Who organized the murder? Colonel Ljubish Bear. Who filmed the liquidations? Alleged journalist Zoran Petrovic-Pirocanac, filmed a video camera, took to the west, all by warrant did, video-recorded and got huge money. His footage is in The Hague. Look, I know that crimes have often happened throughout history, almost every war has crimes. But if someone was recording their crimes, I hadn't heard of it. Maybe there were cases like that. I heard, in fact, in one more place that the one who committed the crime was recording it, thinking that it would be possible to boast about the offspring or whatever. In this case, it was directed. The Hague tribunal is not looking for Beara at all. He's nowhere on the list. Nothing. He's lost. He's here somewhere in Belgrade...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23760	I warn you to get back on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23761	I'm about to finish my 20 minutes, and this is about fighting organized crime. You've explained here that it's also about the prosecution of serious war crimes. Is that right, Minister? Therefore, if we do not speak specifically of crime and crime, this debate is not worth it. We don't meet every six months or every three months, in principle we argue, bring a bunch of legal norms and nothing at the end. Crime is always concrete, extremely concrete. There's nothing more concrete than him. Crime exists where individual crimes exist, and here is a huge number of these individual crimes that are absolutely not responded to. You're making this law a special special prosecutor, a special court, a special prison room. Look, every public prosecutor has to, in terms of the prosecution of these crimes, be special. Every court must be special. If it is not possible to judge in Nis, Jagodina, Kragujevac, Cačka, jurisdiction in Belgrade is delegated. Why build a new prison when two-thirds of the capacity is not filled in in Central Prison? There are most empty cells there. A little bit of renovation and repair. They're not your reliable prison guards? Get discipline in there. Have the Justice Minister prescribe a new house order, bring in new sublaws, control them. If he serves as a prison guard as a link between a criminal and a mob, catch him in the act. There are some people in his party who used to do this, so caught in the act. I don't want to mention names, since the names are hateful, obviously. So, what are you doing here? With these legal norms, you achieve nothing. Of what you want to vote today, no criminal, no mobster and no real war criminal. And this criminal was tied to foreign intelligence, because the Serbs had to be subjected to a terrible crime that would always be stuck on their noses, with the Ten Diversant Squad under the command of this Bear. None of them will feel threatened. You'll be passing some laws again. There's nothing you can do to threaten me. When I started politics, you weren't allowed to do anything, because you were in the Union of Communists. I put my head in a bag and for more than 20 years my head is in a bag and I have nothing to worry about. It's like my head's already been taken off. I can say anything that comes to mind and that I'm not afraid of anyone. (President: I warn you of an excessive amount of time. I call upon you to reorganize your service, to be able, to proceed decisively in the reckoning, to first arrest those criminals you personally know, and they will sing to you. If you're not able, I'll question them. Everyone will sing, I guarantee you. I do not know which methods you apply, so no one will say anything to you, so no one knows anything, so no one, none of it, or perhaps they blackmail you, so they say, ‘Do not accidentally interfere, for I will bring it out for you, that and that.’ That's another problem. That problem can't be solved by this law either.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23762	The word has a minister of justice, Mr Vladan Batic, right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23763	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Vojislav Seselj spoke a lot of things, but he did not deal with the law on the organisation and jurisdiction of state authorities in the repression of organised crime. I must say that the existing Criminal Law is fully synchronised with modern European legislation. It's not the height of the punishment that's threatened, it's the problem of the height of the sentence. So, all this is what the Prime Minister was saying. Most of the penalties imposed in court proceedings are on the verge or even below the legal minimum. It's a lack of criminal policy, which draws its roots from time to time, from the times of the former regime. Normally, it was a mild criminal policy when most former ministers were involved in crime, committing crimes. The proceedings against these former ministers have been initiated. Normally, when the court was simply a service of the executive authority, when there was not a single word about the free and independent judiciary, when the court was extended by the former regime and when it was tried by other arches, rather than by the provisions of the Criminal Law. Also, I have to remind myself that it is not true what has been made and as far as procedural legislation is concerned, the Code of Criminal Procedure. It has already been said that he is in charge of the federal government and the federal parliament. It has already been said that the government of the Republic of Serbia has asked the federal government to pass a law on special rules of criminal procedure, just to be synchronised with this law today on the agenda. That's what we're missing, that's what we need. The institution of the special prosecutor, the institution of special jurisdiction, is present in all societies that are truly fighting organised crime. Mr. Seselj, you can read the provisions of a number of European legislation that know the institution of a special prosecutor, outside the institution of regular prosecutors, to call them that. One more thing, Mr. Seselj, you've just deunciated Mr. Sreten Lukic. You obviously have a desire to court Carly del Ponte. You will obviously be able to be a good insider in the process, but you, just from this pay phone, have committed a criminal act of public secrecy that was known to you at the moment when you were the Serbian Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23764	The word has the Deputy Prime Minister and Interior Minister Dusan Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23765	Mr. Seselj presented one assessment in his presentation of the Security Information Agency Act, which I would like to comment on; he also commented on the work of the Ministry in two parts, so I need to inform this assembly and the public about the true state of affairs. Mr. Seselj has stated that the real reason for the adoption of this law on the government's security-information agency is the government's intention to single out the Ministry's security portfolio, in order to abolish the Special Operations Unit. It simply does not correspond to the real state of affairs, because it is forgotten that the Special Operations Unit is no longer in the security portfolio, but is isolated from it and is located in the Ministry of Interior, as an independent organisational unit responsible for the minister; it can be used for anti-terrorism activities, as proposed by the Minister, and with the consent of the Government. I must immediately tell everyone that this highly specialized, well-trained and well-trained anti-terrorist fight unit should also have its place in the new organisation of the MUP, our police and special units of police, which will deal with the fight against terrorism and the preservation of public order and peace where it is disrupted in greater scope and in greater space. That's one thing I wanted to say. Secondly, with regard to the work of the MUP, the insinuation that the MUP has been transformed into an instrument of the UN tribunal. This is incorrect for the simple reason that this ministry is legally authorised to deal with the prevention and detection of all types of criminal offences that have been established by our criminal law. This also points to the face of what we have received as a criminal heritage from the past, which on one side consists of war crimes committed, and on the other of organised crime. So that's why we are dealing with this problem, which is only one part intertwined with The Hague tribunal's jurisdiction and activities, and this ministry has not delivered any documents to The Hague tribunal, excluding a procedure regulated by the Co-operation Act with The Hague tribunal. The following refers to insinuations related to police generals Sreten Lukic and Radosavljevic. It's old manipulations. No matter who put them out, it doesn't do them any good. These estimates do not support efforts to preserve the ministry's unity, to make its work even more effective. Because during the election of these two generals, a detailed check of their activities was carried out and there was nothing in their files that could compromise or disqualify them to carry out these responsible duties. They don't have a criminal record and no one's ever done it before, so neither at the time nor now, has provided any relevant evidence that they've committed crimes, especially war crimes. The fact that they were in Kosovo doesn't say anything, because there are no police officers in Serbia, excluding those who have left our schools at this time and have been admitted to the service, which in this last decade has been no longer in Kosovo. Just by performing his duty in Kosovo and Metohija, it is not a confirmation that he is a war criminal and these are insinuations that speak more about those who bring them up than about Generals Lukic and Radosavljevic. As far as their work is concerned, since these duties are behind their work and results, and I am really proud of this cooperation, that we have managed to keep this police together and this ministry in such difficult and complex times, given that we have inherited a real war in southern Serbia and that we have come out of this problem in the best possible way. It is the gendarme commanded by General Radosavljevic who successfully performs tasks with many times less power than before. With about 400 and some gendarmes doing a job that we once needed from two to 4,500 regular police officers, which had all the other consequences on the state of crime, public order and peace and security in the environments from which these officers were cracked and sent to these special tasks in southern Serbia. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23766	We continue the debate according to the application for the word of the president of the parliamentary groups. The speaker of the DOS parliamentary group, MP Cedomir Jovanovic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23767	Mrs. Micic, the Honorable Presidency, distinguished members of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think it would be important for us to return this debate to seriousness and, despite all the irresponsibleness that the representative of a parliamentary group said at a pay phone in the Republic Parliament, to consider the laws that we should discuss and the reasons why we are passing these laws. If we behave in a similar way, it will certainly not be with smiles to comment on all that heritage, the ten-year legacy that democratic Serbia faces today, nor will today's smile be accused in the way they did from one centre of political power that we discussed yesterday; always and by the rule without evidence, and always and by the rule of intent, not to reveal the truth, but to prevent those who seek that truth from getting away with and making a border between Serbia in which we want to live a decent life and Serbia that is in the dark, regardless of what is the 5th of October two years behind us. So, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the law on the organisation and jurisdiction of state authorities in countering organised crime and on a law that fully reorganises the security portfolio, on two very important and closely connected areas. We are here to answer first - whether Serbia is a specific society and whether it therefore brings any specific legal act. No, I don't. As for the law on the organisation and jurisdiction of state authorities in the prevention of organised crime, it is a law that exists in all countries in our environment; these two laws exist in countries with a long democratic tradition, in which institutions function. Such laws are applied in England, Germany, Italy, Russia, Croatia; does this mean that they are criminal societies and that they run a criminal policy or that they are societies that have stable, secure institutions, but also parallel structures of power with which they lead a permanent and constant war. We are not afraid of this fight, only today we send a message to the public that, after a year of very determined struggle, we cannot win unless we resort to those instruments that have been resorted to by democratic societies. No human right has been questioned. Both laws stemmed from the full respect of all international conventions that we, as a state, are required to respect, given that we have accepted them. The law on the organisation and jurisdiction of state authorities in the prevention of organised crime reformes the instruments of the executive authority in the field of the MUP, but primarily the judicial authorities in the area of the prosecution and the organisation of courts, i.e. the prison type institution. With regard to the reorganisation of the executive authority in the work of the MUP, it is necessary. You've heard several very serious examples. One of the ones we can talk about is - why today our Ministry of the Interior cannot fill those with the nature of the defined and necessary capacity; why is there almost 40% of the job space available? Due to poor incomes, due to hard work, because of the inability to adequately, to which the state asks the ministry, to deal with those who represent a problem in work. Since January 25th, so from the day the Republic Assembly was established, it has been interrupted with practice and a rule that existed for the past 10 years. For the past 10 years, citizens have been criminals, and criminals have been patriots. Criminals hailed us from the review, from the state meetings, laughed at us, evicted citizens across Serbia, emptyed villages, and today those who went to Kosovo and Metohija on official duty, as longtime members of the MUP, denunciated and accused of crime and war crimes, again without any evidence. We don't have a problem with Carla del Ponte. We respect her because this is about the body of the international community that we want us to belong to. Until now, it has never been done by Carla del Ponte, but has been done by the former vice-president of the Republic government, who sends a message to the public -- it is not my fault that I expelled Serbian citizens through the Curse, but it is those who were wounded in Kosovo and Metohija; it is those who refused to carry out the law on October 5th, the civil war in Serbia, who are today expected to carry out these laws successfully and deal with the crime that was inherited. Ladies and gentlemen, the law on the organisation and jurisdiction of state authorities in the prevention of organised crime is passed at a specific moment, after a serious and quite certainly tragic event, which has confirmed in a series that Serbia, although it wants to be different, is at some point similar to that of Serbia in which we have lived for the past 10 years. This led to a serious debate. Serious investigations have been carried out and it has been found that police cannot, with existing powers, be successful in fighting organised crime. That police need extraordinary powers, powers given by this law. It is true that there is an anti-organised crime administration in the existing organisation of the MUP, but that administration did not stem from the Interior Ministry Act, but from the regulation. This administration cannot be established in the necessary way in order to be as effective as it is required. That's why we, through this law, have provided for the establishment of a special police force to fight organized crime. Why do we insist on such a formulation and such a legal solution? Because for the first time in 60 years, a police unit has been placed under the control of both enforcement and judicial or prosecutorial authorities. So far, this has depended only on the Ministry of the Interior and the Republic Government. This time, the first man of the unit will be appointed through the consent of the police minister and the special prosecutor. So that's the depoliticalization that represents us significantly different than the representatives of a cabinet and their speakers in this assembly, because those who have represented them so far are gone. The Special Police Unit will not be led by a government official, who is appointed exclusively by us, but by a person for whom special prosecutor, an independent special prosecutor, who is subject to the procedure laid down by law and who has nothing to do with Parliament or us as representatives of today's government. The D.A. must have special powers and special status. He differs from the Republic and district attorney by the nature of the business he deals with, not the status. His responsibilities, of course, come from the permits granted by the Republic Public Prosecutor, but his job is different. His job is Judge Falkone's business. No one knows today who allowed Italian judge Falcone to be a special prosecutor and do the job, but the price that man paid is known. That's why we want to stand entirely behind all the people who are going to apply this law and who are going to deal with crime: behind the prosecutor, behind the special police unit, behind the judge who's going to do it. That's why we need a special court building. You see the conditions in which trials are held for such cases in any democratic society in the world. These are armored courtrooms, special security measures, rigorous detention measures. Today, criminals in prison have cell phones, they go on weekends. Is that the right of any other citizen of this country to commit some kind of traffic violation or a commercial offense? No, I don't. And for what? Because prison officials, because the authorities of the judicial authorities cannot oppose organised crime without this kind of help; we give them this help and then we ask for concrete results. As far as the proposal for a law on a security-information agency is concerned, no one in the professional public has disputed this proposal. We can discuss for hours the models that are organised and controlled in such agencies in democratic societies. You will see that no postulate of independence and absolute control has been questioned. Again, we can look for examples in democratic societies and in countries in our environment. They're always according to government agencies, they have nothing to do with the interior ministry operating in a collective security system, with other security agencies. We don't have that community today. We have no reason to believe that we cannot control one service within the Yugoslav Army, but we believe that after this and the law that was passed in the Federal Assembly that round will be closed; in such a way the security system of this society will be complete and fully functional, there will be no rivalry as so far, and these services will not deal with such matters as the State Security Resor until 5 October 2000. There are numerous examples of abuse of that service, negligence, disregard for regulations, but I think this law will give us the right to request at any time those explanations that we have not yet had by law the right to seek. Under the existing legal acts, the Republic Parliament could not ask: no document from the State Security Resolutions; to conduct an investigation; that any member of state security, if he is not prepared for such a thing, comes before the polling committee, the polling committee is having talks. These are those precedents that cannot stay away. Democratic Serbia wants to preserve its security, but through democratically and legally established bodies that will act exactly as the security-information agency will do. She's changing and transphroming. It is true that certain formations belonging to the State Security Responsibilities will be laid out by law this time. You heard the minister of police who made it very clear to you that it was manipulation and again what kind of manipulation? In November of last year, we had an insurrection of the Special Operations Unit. Many wanted this rebellion to be resolved by bloodshed, but we managed to settle all the issues in question peacefully, to determine responsibility, to punish those responsible in accordance with the regulations, to restore the stability needed by Serbia. It seems to me that today in the performance of an MP something like that has been tried again. There's another mention of The Hague tribunal, 16,000 people, a camp in the country in our environment, nonsense to nonsense, and we have to deny something like that, because if we go beyond that, something like that will become part of the public truth. If parliament agrees, then any other citizen will agree to that. And those of whom we expect to fight crime most resolutely, will become people who have distanced themselves from their jobs because they consider us ungrateful representatives of the authorities who will sacrifice them. Whoever committed the war crime must answer, and this is not done by the state authorities of today's government, nor by the structures that these bodies do.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23768	Do you want to use the next ten minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23769	I'll be done in 30 seconds. Therefore, the security-information agency has been very precisely defined and its obligations have been established by this law, jurisdiction and rights also, obligations and rights of the Republic of Parliament which have not been defined so far and will be able to apply after this law. I expect parliamentarians not to forget that national security knows no party borders and that those who thought they could wage party wars, such a thing they can certainly consider to be the wrong policy today, which, among other things, is seen through the consequences we face. As for those of whom we expect these laws to be implemented, we will be very sharp, rigorous, but at any moment we will have our absolute help.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23770	The president of the SSJ parliamentary group, MP Dragan Markovic, spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23771	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, the Honored Ministers, the Soviet Union has always had a much stronger fight against crime in its programme. However, we are not satisfied with the government and certain laws that have been passed lately. We've passed a series of harmful laws, and I'm going to specifically refer to only two or three members of some laws - to end the death penalty. Imagine now that one person commits the murder of more than five people, that killer has no death penalty, and the social situation in his family is very difficult or has no family, he has a much better life in prison than at home. Police powers have also been reduced. The police may now bring in a suspect for individual crimes, but only four hours can hold the suspect in the SUP with the presence of a lawyer. The Prime Minister said that we need European standards to apply to our judiciary and when it comes to the defendants and suspects. But given that our country has had three wars in the last 10 years, in Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Metohija, so every fifth house has a bomb, we cannot apply European standards in this sense in Serbia. We can apply European standards in terms of the protection of judges, police officers and when it comes to the salaries of police officers in particular. It's very low and low wages when a 20-year-old cop receives 10,000 dinars. So you should apply such European standards. The question is also asked which terminology can be used when it comes to the Pavkovic affair. You see, there is no problem for us in Serbia that happens between you and the president of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, but the problem is that the only unscathed institution in Serbia-Yugoslavia Army has been sought. Who's right about that now, is that organized crime where multiple persons participated and is that true? Look, I don't have the right to believe this, but I can believe what General Pavkovic is saying, because he took an oath and he's going to work...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23772	People's MP, please return to the agenda. You could have said that yesterday.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23773	I'm talking about crime...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23774	Today we have two concrete draft laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23775	So I want someone to explain it to me. Furthermore, the whole world is watching our fight in Serbia and in some ways they don't want to cooperate with us. This has been shown recently and in the economy, that we have a decline in production, a large number of workers have lost their jobs, and only because their factories have lost the market in Europe. So, I ask you to come out afterwards and tell me what's true in this affair (repeated to Mr. Djindjic), did you give the order to listen to the president of Yugoslavia?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23776	Please, these aren't even parliamentary questions, and neither is the agenda theme, we talked about it yesterday, you had a chance to talk about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23777	This is a crime, here's a crime story. So that's the question I ask you, and I want you to answer me, not as a politician, but as a businessman in Serbia, as a family man; I want to know what the truth is; is it true what the generals said; if it is, then someone has to answer for it. The president of the state cannot say that the Serbian government is criminal and that it will stop there. If the Serbian government is criminal, it must be investigated, Mr. Prime Minister. To this day, we didn't get the information whether it was true or not. Maybe it is, and maybe it isn't. There is dissatisfaction with the citizens, but you have not launched any initiative to review that statement by Mr Vojislav Kostunica and his associates. (Lowers from the O.R.: This isn't a survey committee.) ) Be careful, we did not enter the Committee of Auditors because no one from the opposition is, but we support the examination of the true truth, because the public is currently moving public attention; citizens in Serbia are following what the two presidents of Serbia's two strongest parties are doing, or they were the strongest until a month ago. President, you know very well what's been going on lately, but if you're the Prime Minister, and the Prime Minister in Serbia has great powers, we have to cut it off once. Because, completely all citizens (a voice from the O.R.) - why didn't you join the Survey Committee? ..... Well, we don't want to, sir, get on the Survey Board, because it's your mutual party argument. Serbian citizens don't like each other. Be safe. Because whoever's got the biggest damage here, all the citizens in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23778	Okay, now let's get back to the agenda, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23779	Well, here, I get it, I have to answer because I'm used to it, when someone asks me something, I can't go on, I have to answer it; since DOS gentlemen are uninformed, I'm sure they don't have information service, like some parties have, so I have to answer them. The SS requires that the laws be strict, rigorous, that the powers of judges increase; European standards in terms of protection, as well as the salaries of judges and police officers; such laws should be passed here, because police officers can no longer live on their work. We have a large number of tenants in Serbia, and based on what we've been able to see lately, we've even had some rallys. I would ask you, Mr. Prime Minister, to come out and answer a few questions as a businessman. So I asked the question -- did you give the warrant to listen to the president of the state of Vojislav Kostunica, and if you're not some citizens hear it firsthand? You see, I'd like to hear, as an ordinary citizen, that Kostunica, the president of the state, come out and say, "I didn't give the order to Pavkovic and the other generals to break into the Bureau of Government." But since I've heard four generals and I trust Mr. Pavkovic, now I want to hear this other side -- did you give that warrant? In the past, I raised and asked you to send someone to Turkey, since the Turkey has no water, to solve the problem. Promise me, you don't have to go to the pay phone, will you send someone to solve this problem in Turkey? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23780	National MP Slobodan Tomovic, the mandated representative of the SPS parliamentary group for this item of the agenda, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23781	Ms. Micic, gentlemen of the Assembly, gentlemen of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, from a number of issues relevant for the reasons and objectives of the adoption of the draft of these laws, I have singled out a group of four, in order to absorb the right answer to these questions during this debate. The first question - should the adoption of such laws contribute to effective countering organised crime, i.e. Mafia? Secondly, should the addicts serve as a complement or an improvement in the provisions of the existing Co-operation Act with the UN tribunal? Thirdly, whether these laws should be helped by inauguration of special organisational units of state bodies, despite the fact that, without the formation of special organisational units, they can internally, visas of existing legislation, redistribute transactions in any of the state bodies mentioned under the proposal of these laws. And the fourth question -- is the proposal for these laws, given the public and experts' reactions to the pre-stupulated solutions, wants to preserve the reputation and seriousness of the proposings, so with the reternization of something that essentially falls away from the original intentions and does not solve the basic idea that what is proposed and what we are discussing futureimafi laws, because the proposals deal primarily with the problem of organising special organisational continents. Let's go in order; in response to the first question, we need to discuss first - whether the mafia exists or not? You know, there have been public statements that we know where the centers are, who the mobsters are, that the mob is gone, that it has been systematically defeated, etc. It seems to me that the public here is about at the level of thinking, let me have a little digression, that Dude from the show "Gruntovci"; when they asked him if it was true that Regina was cheating on him with the village residents, he said -- so what do I say, half the village says he's not. So now we have a situation where someone says they have mobs, and someone says they're gone. So, if the mob isn't there, I'm inclined to believe it is, and I wish it was, then we shouldn't be discussing the law. But if the mafia exists, then these bill proposals don't solve the basic intent, which is an effective fight against the mafia, because they don't contain specific powers to act in the fight against the mafia, since they're exclusively dealing with the issue of organising special organisational units in state bodies, despite the fact that, as I said, nobody defends anyone by the existing regulations. Should this law serve as a complement or an improvement of the Law of Co-operation with The Hague tribunal? Well, according to Article 2(2), it appears that this law can introduce a possibility to which all those defending this country could be declared an element of organised crime in The Hague, where it is tried for acts against humanity and international law, with the option of being exported to The Hague or being tried here, as necessary. So I don't think it's possible to put a sign of equality between those who defended the country from NATO aggression and those who have lashed out in serious crime. Simply, I don't think that there can be a sign of equality between fierce criminals and patriots, especially because behind these criminals, there seem to be powerful sponsors, whose protection they manage the gray economy, economic and financial flows within Serbia. Should this law help inauguration of special organisational units? Well, we've already said that. So we have, within the framework of existing legislation, a very real and legal opportunity to perform internal redistribution, an internal organisation of work; we do not have to have a special law that would give us the opportunity to do such a thing. If it is true that legal maximums are allowed anything that is not prohibited by law, those legal regulations do not say that such a thing is prohibited and therefore it is logical that we do not have to make up a law that will allow it, which is not normally prohibited.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23782	Please don't throw away or disturb the speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23783	It inspires me anyway, but there's something called good taste, and there's something else I can't influence, which is education. So maybe it can affect someone who's in charge. Does these laws, given the public and experts' reactions to the previous solutions, want to come out of it honorably. The proposals offered for public adoption were originally the most valid law on special prosecution, as anti-mafia law, and it has now served the Media Centre to organise a round table on the subject of power and infirmity of a special prosecutor. In any case, the texts of the proposal we have here differ from what was shown in public as anti-mafian law. Therefore, the public is told to prepare for the adoption of laws on effective and unfair fighting against the mafia, and on the other hand, we are now discussing draft laws dealing with the organisation of special units within the existing state bodies. I guess it's to believe that just because we didn't have a special prosecutor, a special service against organized crime, a special detention unit, that's why we couldn't, and we can't stand in the way of organized crime effectively. It seems to be something else, judging by the public's reactions. Because here, for example, "Glas" says: the government's marketing move ahead of the elections; so it says, to make everything worse, the bill is contrary to international acts on the protection of human rights; so it can be concluded that this campaign serves as a single use and political marketing ahead of the upcoming presidential elections. The second paper "National" says - although they praised the idea itself, participants concluded that the bill was contrary to international acts on the protection of human rights, so it can be concluded, etc., that I am not wasting words on quotes and you probably had a chance to read all this. Hence, it is possible, therefore, that the proposer - considering the famous principle of "grass to catch himself in a wheel and three to let go", given that the reaction of experts was such and almost an otter to the public compared to what was found in the public - concluded that the National Assembly is proposing something that is now contrary to what was offered to the public. Now by replacing the thesis, it's said -- come on, because we can't go back, we can adopt what's going to be a change in the structure of certain state bodies, and that's going to be it; we're going to adopt it as something that will effectively solve the problem of fighting organised crime. The impression is that the proponent has made significant progress compared to earlier procedures in formulating certain legal solutions. On this occasion, he opposed the text of a possible legal solution, and then awaited a reaction from the public and experts. If, as a result of his reaction to the public and experts, he withdrew the original proposal, then it is positive and affirmative, but it remains to be known that because of some political goals or marketing, the system of replacing the thesis, he tried to throw dust in the eyes of lawmakers. It offers a proposal for special laws dealing with the organisation, insisting that it be adopted, only to allow the state authorities mentioned in the internal organisation's affairs to be handled, not how it can be.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23784	Do you want to use the next ten minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23785	Yeah. As for the idea of setting up a security-intelligence agency, I know that at this point within the Ministry of the Interior there are public and state security corridors. Both resistors were in charge and their affairs were co-ordinated by the interior minister; it is absolutely natural, because the interior minister cannot be anyone. In any case, it must be a person of trust, of profession and moral integrity. If that is the case, and if it is known that the Government has had the opportunity so far to intervening the minister or on the basis of requirements processed in reports or individual labs to control the operation of the State Security Resor, the question is why we are now insisting on another solution. So why, figuratively speaking, we invent hot water. Under the current proposal, the government would work on state security affairs directly, and these jobs would be co-ordinated by the agency's director, not by the minister. I don't believe that it's because there's no trust in the current minister, but it actually means we're going to have two ministers: one who's going to deal with internal affairs and only that's going to be in the vault and the other who's going to be called the director of the agency, and basically he's going to be the minister, because these are the jobs of that rank that he can and must be made by a person of the highest trust. It is unclear what are the essential reasons why jobs, which had previously been entrusted to the minister, are now being brought down to the level of the agency and trust the director of the agency. To whom are the directors of government agencies directly, but in principle and specifically subordinated? The possible answer is that they are subordinated to the government, but such an answer would be unacceptable. It must be located closer to which the director of this agency will essentially be subordinated, to the Prime Minister or perhaps to some college, formed as a particularly responsible part of the government for security, the Assembly Committee, or already to someone in a way that is specifically determined. As regards the control of the Agency's work, under the draft law, the competent authorities shall exercise it in accordance with the law and other regulations. The proposal does not show and is not explicitly referred to as organs and regulations. Does this mean that the answer to this question will be given later, and then remains unclear when it will be, by which law, or whether it will be resolved by sublegal acts within 90 days of the date of adoption of the proposal. If we were to define ourselves and say that these jobs should be specially organised, then I would insist that this function be termologically separate from other functions, from other agencies. Therefore, the termological name of this function should be singled out, since it, unlike individual agencies, has a more complex organisational structure, which includes special organisational units and is by complexity, delicacy and the scope of jobs in front of any of the other agencies. It would be more natural, therefore, if it were called otherwise, for example the Directorate for Security Protection or the Republic Security Administration or something that would talk about what business it is, and on the other hand, it would be the difference between the agencies that have two or three perpetrators and the one that should deal with matters of utmost importance. The proposal also says the agency's director and minister should determine mandatory forms and ways of co-operation between the agency and the MUP. I don't think that's good, either the director of the agency, or the minister, but a college or some body that would be more concerned with the security problem in the government, should also determine what forms and methods of co-operation between the agency and the MUP. Simply, I would say that the decision to take over and carry out the work of the Ministry of Interior should be agreed by the Director of the Agency and the Minister, does not stand. The director of the agency and the minister cannot be partners, a decision proposed by the director of the agency can only be made by the Prime Minister or the College, which would be formed in this regard. And in that college, besides the president, the interior minister, the director of the agency, should probably be the minister of justice and see who else. With regard to Article 19, it is necessary to clarify how it will be determined, on which basis and what criteria of the persons who will exercise control over the Agency's work. Whether or not it will be dealt with by sublegal acts, because I simply think that it should also be taken into account. It is, of course, necessary to provide additional resources. Let me say, quite by the ny (by the way), we adopted the budget and we said that everything about the needs of the MUP and countering crime, etc. We agree, we accept. This now means some new force on the villa, but if necessary and if there are sources, then it can be acceptable. Finally, if the proposaler's intention was to propose to MPs of the National Assembly to adopt laws on the fight against the mafia, then what is the subject of the debate cannot be qualified differently but as a partial and incomplete solution, which, compared to the real needs of fighting organised crime and the mafia, still solves only a part of the matter, not what must be comprehensively, unambiguously and in one piece solved. The mob cannot be fought by listing possible organisational units, but by powers and competences in acting, of course in full agreement with the constitutional and provisions of the existing law, relevant to this issue. It is good if the promoter listened to the voice of the public and experts, so he did not insist as before on the quick adoption of the proposed project. It is not good that he has not freed himself from the habit of offering MPs ad hoc and partial, instead of a comprehensive strategy-based solution, which, by the way, is neither conceived nor adopted, offers a proposal on the establishment of certain organisational continents. It's obvious, and it doesn't need to be proved in particular, that the only real solution is to withdraw the motion from the procedure of the bill. I am convinced that the public will understand this correctly and that, above all, on the basis of a guessed answer whether the mafia exists or not, it offers or does not offer a document to be discussed. If the answer is that of the mafia i.e. There is, however, organized crime - and this must be justified by criteria and comparative data, relevant for the conclusion of the situation with us and in other countries of the world, with an analysis of why the situation is worse with us and whether in this sense there is a responsibility - a strategy to combat organised crime should first be adopted, and in the function of the strategy to define organisational structures, and then formalise the activities of each of the structures, with adequate application of these activities to constitutional provisions and existing legal regulations. I advocate, therefore, that we do not work hasty and due to political marketing, and that we then pass laws on amendments to the law. Let's take as much time as we need, as much time as we need, and the citizens won't mind. Finally, let's do it in a proverbial manner: three times, cut once. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23786	Do any of the other authorised representatives or presidents want a word? The word is from MP Zvojin Stjepic, authorised representative of the DHSS parliamentary group. Well, it's a folk letter from Hope Kolundji for the Parliament Group of Yes. After that, MP Zoran Ćirkovic, a member of the NS parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23787	The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ministers, MPs, guests, good afternoon. The DHSS absolutely supports the proposal of both of these legal solutions, but we must also say why. Therefore, the establishment of a security agency for the Serbian state is necessary in order to establish, above all, the institutions of civil society. I want to explain to the Members of Parliament who don't know what civil society means. This means that, among other things, the president of one state cannot command all institutions in that country. This must mean establishing a hierarchy in power and respecting basic democratic principles. The SPS gentlemen obviously weren't clear, and now we're hearing sermons about how they're in the mood to give us some solutions, etc. Well, you haven't applied that in-- 10 years, 12 years you've been in power. Let's say, another thing, why DHSS supports... Do you want to calm these gentlemen MPs here?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23788	I ask all MPs to respect the provisions of the Rules of Procedure and not to receive the speaker, and I ask the speaker not to communicate with the MPs. These are the rules that apply to all of us, and I ask that we respect them together.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23789	When it comes to this other law, on the fight against organised crime, the mafia, it is necessary to pass this law because simply seriously, civil society locates a problem and, of course, in accordance with the location of a particular problem, it proposes certain means or leverage, which, of course, is fought by people who are themselves the creators of organised crime here in Serbia. It is logical, therefore, that a normal, civil and democratic society also has a law on fighting organised crime. Why are we bringing this now and why is this law here today in front of the National Assembly? Because our predecessors didn't bring in during their mandates and during their chairmanship or rule over this country. Because it was the bearers of the highest state functions that were the creators of organized crime. Because 21 former government ministers are currently being prosecuted for organised crime. Why are you objecting to the passing of this law? Well, it's because your party colleagues are the producers of organised crime in Serbia. That's the answer you were supposed to give, gentlemen, to the citizens of Serbia while you exercised power. Not that we're rectifying anything that you've absolutely sinned and organized, the whole time you've been in power. Therefore, the DHSS will support both the bill and the other bill. And if this wasn't a marketing move by the Republic government, people who were the authorities of the previous regime would soon be convinced. So, your party colleagues.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23790	The word has the People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji, president of the Parliament Group DA. You have a replica of the former regime, I apologize to the MP. The word has been made by MP Slobodan Tomovic, the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group, a replica to the presentation of MP Zvojin Stjepic. The basis for direct address, the former regime. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23791	Young fellow, I would still have to say that being an MP means having some level, some dignity and getting ready for what's being said. You wanted to teach everyone lessons from this pay phone and in general, on the principle of "collective fertilizer" for something that was a negative charge or negative energy in you, so something that you weren't sufficiently informed about, and ignorance doesn't justify, you attribute to SPS MPs and, let me say, to the former regime they belonged to. Please, whatever you can say unpunished from this pay phone, you have evidence of what you're talking about. Now, I don't think that's going to raise your ratings, and as far as we're concerned, I think the public knows very well whether and what kind of ratings the Socialists have, to the extent that they at least voted for us. You don't know how much to vote on, because you were in a winning coalition. Maybe you'd get all the votes you'd get, maybe you'd get more than the Socialists, but when they get more yourself, then come and teach us a lesson.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23792	The word has a folk MP, Nada Kolundzija, president of the Democratic Alternative Group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23793	Dear Mrs Comic, the Honorable Presidency, distinguished members of the government, fellow MPs, for the Democratic Alternative, when we received this law, there were some key issues. First of all, is there any evidence in society that laws are passed or that a particular area is governed by law? Since October 5th, the democratic alternative has insisted on something that can be called cleaning society from crime. So for 10 years, however angry or not, but sociological phenomena exist, no matter who they were, we don't have to identify them, but those who had the greatest power had the greatest responsibility. In 10 years of war, 10 years of politics that didn't know where politics ended and crime started, 10 years in which politicians dealt with crime, and criminals became politicians. These 10 years of institutionalized abuses and muggings of the state and society certainly led us to the point where this society is gravely ill. In that sense, he needs to regulate everything that is possible by law in order to cure the disease as soon as possible. For us, there is no dilemma that there are no political parties that can seriously endanger social reforms, because they do not have enough influence in society; there are few and do not have enough influence in society. But changes in this society can seriously endanger those whose interests are at stake, and above all, it is about those who have achieved their interests in an illegal way. They are the greatest enemies of democratisation and social reform. Therefore, there is no doubt for us that it was necessary for the state to address this particular issue, primarily to define what it is that is specific to organised crime. In that sense, I think we should accept some amendments that expand a little bit, that is, give something that is the content of the definition of organised crime. The second question is whether special laws were needed to regulate or there are now legal conditions to combat this dangerous social illness of the state in an organised way. It is quite clear that when the disease goes into a certain phase, the instruments that existed and were obviously not available are obviously not enough and new instruments need to be introduced to make this fight more effective. Are those special laws? For us, it doesn't matter how it is regulated, whether existing laws change or whether special laws regulate this fight. It is important for us to define it legally, so that it can be guided in one way by law. That is why it is extremely important for us to have this agenda point in front of the Serbian Parliament and what we can say - at this point we are ready to face society's disease and offer some instruments to combat this disease. Whether they are superfluous is irrelevant to us if they allow society to fight these phenomena more effectively. Whether there are reasons to do so by special laws or by changing laws, for us it is entirely in the other plan. We think it's only important that society be determined according to this. Whether these laws can achieve objectives, which is the elimination from society or at least to a large extent the reduction of deviating phenomena resulting from organised crime. We think that these legal projects can be greatly contributed to that goal. Are these legal projects complete or not? Society is living matter and it changes. It is impossible to define at one point the development of society all those instruments that society through its development will seek as a potential means for its normal development. So it is possible that these laws are not complete, but they, in our view, provide enough ground for society to struggle with one disease and the problem that is really crucial to us. The last question for us is whether in laws, as it is very specific laws, there are elements that provide opportunities for abuses, and therefore leave the possibility of someone being a victim. We are talking about human rights, but not now about the human rights of those who should be struck by this law, but whether in these legal solutions there is room for abuse of the law to actually apply to those that do not apply to them. In this respect, it is necessary to elaborate item 2, in particular, on the subject of the endangerment of the constitutional order, etc. We think it should be specified, because there may be room for possible abuses of this law. This may give the possibility of someone being the victim of someone who intends to abuse the law. We think that, in addition to the amendments that the Legislative Committee has also proposed, this law provides a serious chance for society to fight something we can call a mob or anything else, but the fact is that there is, therefore, a thing that is organized to carry out criminal activities.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23794	The word comes from MP Zoran Cirkovic, deputy president of the New Serbia parliamentary group. Are any of the other presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23795	Madam Vice-President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, honourable members of the government and guests of the gallery, we are discussing in principle the proposals of the law on the security and information agency and the law of the organisation and the jurisdiction of the state authorities in countering organised crime. These are the two laws the government sent us within two days. I suggest that Shecky, along with the minister, go outside and finish the conversation. As the minister announced the arrest a moment ago, I think Shecky can bring a blanket just in case, because we don't know how long she'll stay.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23796	Please respect the Rules of Procedure. There is no communication of speakers with MPs and MPs, I ask that they do not interfere with speakers, according to the provisions of Articles 98 and 99. The Rules of Procedure of our congregation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23797	So warn them to behave well. So, like this, I especially point out that on December 5th of last year, it was that fatal day that the Martian was removed here, I didn't know he was going to be sad then, so fatal to him of course. No one else in particular. On that day, I submitted a bill on the rights of citizens of the Republic of Serbia to the full availability and use of my own record in the service of the DB and has passed since then. For the previous regular meeting of this assembly, the speaker of the assembly told me that I had missed the opportunity to renew my request once more. I'm doing it in public now. There will probably be a regular session in October of the month, so I ask the president to put this proposal on the agenda. Since I'm not sure it will be then, I'm free to read this law and not because of you, not because of the government, but simply because of the public. The law is really short.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23798	Please, you've been given the word on these two bill proposals.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23799	I got word on the proposal for a law on a security-information agency. My bill of law applies to this matter, and I'm not out of the question.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23800	But your bill is not the subject of debate in the Assembly. You can hold a press conference.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23801	In principle debate, ma'am, yes, because it's a really broad topic. In an individual debate, I couldn't expose this matter.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23802	People's MP, I'm warning you again. So, the topic of the debate is not the bill that you have submitted and I ask you to return to the agenda topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23803	Proposal for a Security Information Agency Act; Article 1 is removed from the confidentiality mark, the state secret from all DB service files that have been led on citizens of the Republic of Serbia in the qualification of - the internal enemy, nationalism, or internal extremism and terrorism, in the period from the establishment of the SDB until the entry into force of this law. Article 2; The Ministry of the Interior will publish a list of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia on whom the file referred to in Article 1 of this Law has been kept. Article 3; at the personal request of a citizen from the list referred to in Article 2 of this Act (hereinafter referred to as "fileholders") shall be made available to see his own file, with the right to be fully available and to use the same. Serbia's MUP will remove all obstacles to safeguarding the anonymity and conspiracies of the DB service's informants and associates. Article 4; file holders shall be obliged to sign a declaration that the content of the file cannot be subject to any judicial or administrative dispute before they exercise the right to fully available and to use it. The knowledge that file holders have can't be the basis for any material or legal satisfaction. The appearance and content of the statement set out in Article 1 will prescribe Serbia's MUP with a special instruction. There have been many reasons to pass this law. Indeed, before it came out with a proposal to change the name of the State Security Service, about its dislocation in an institutional sense, so that it is no longer in the MUP's portfolio, but simply acts as a special directorate, as one said, in the Government, or a special administration. There were many reasons for this law to be passed before that, and I will state these reasons. As part of the expected changes, after a democratic coup since 5 October 2000, we believe that one service within the framework of the MUP, and often beyond its control, remained largely intact and its activity unexplained. The DB service acted as a secret police force and the Pretorian guard of the communist oligarchy in the period 1944-1990, and in the period from 1990 to 2000 it was the same in the service of the SPS as the ideological, legal and property followers of the Union of Communists of Serbia. Regular people do not know what SDB was up to, although the consequences of its mysterious work suffered by all free-minded citizens of Serbia. Of course, the reasons for adopting this law are political, as the SDB has functioned as political police. But it's not just that. There are moral reasons for passing this law. The victims of the communist regime have the right to learn the names of informants and SDB informants. We are aware that some knowledge can be painful. These are all people from the immediate environment of the citizens on whom the file was kept. However, file holders can only doubt their suppliers without ever being sure of their identity. The moral restoration of our country and society is useful for people who trust their friends, relatives and associates from work, more useful than those who suspect. The suspicion is mostly unwarranted, and unwarranted doubt can produce slander. That is why the government's regulation was published in Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia 31/2001, which deals with the issue of files on citizens of the Republic of Serbia, restrictive and restricts the rights and freedoms of citizens of the constitutional category. On the contrary, we believe that the government's first regulation on removing the confidentiality mark from files on citizens of the Republic of Serbia in the service of the DB, "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia", number 30/01, is better than its subsequent amendment. With this proposal for a law on the right of citizens of the Republic of Serbia to make full use of our own file, led by the SDB, we sought to give the government's first regulation the courtesy and the law. The government of the Republic of Serbia has justifiably objected to government through regulations. We are giving the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia the opportunity to show its people and all citizens of the Republic of Serbia that the moral restoration of our society has laid a serious foundation. Of course, by respecting the form, I've explained all these provisions that I won't read. I just feel like there's no need for an explanation. Here, I notice that the Prime Minister is nodding, and that means things are going well. So we really expect that after the agency's change, this law will come on the agenda. By the way, I have a remark that there may have been some kind of change in personnel. I'm not sure they're complete and comprehensive, but it's a matter of principle. However, it is quite certain, Mr. Minister, that no personnel changes have occurred in the DB portfolio. Here, let's say, I remind you that there's a man in Priboj who's been in that position for 25 years. By the way, it was a man who was a great SPS activist who participated in all the electoral actions, etc. I don't really know how long he'll be your boss. Is that where he cemented himself? In fact, I'm looking at it from a small man's position, I'm looking at things from my immediate surroundings, and I don't know what it's like in other places. My informants say things didn't get any better. We expect them to get better. Here, I don't really know if this man, whom I won't name, has been politically audited, which isn't excluded. (Pal Shandor, from the scene: He made a file on Cirkovic. I didn't know who the operative was, so I can't blame him. It was interesting to me that there were 10 people hiding under some pseudonym and following my movements, etc. I admit, out of curiosity, I insisted on this.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23804	I'm warning you in time. Will you use the next ten minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23805	I'll bet there's no consequences for these people. Some things these people did in blissful ignorance. Some have convinced that it's really patriotic what they're doing. Some of them probably paid for it. I don't know why they did it, but the moral restoration of our country, the state and society need a law like this that must precede lustration. Lustration is empty. By the way, this agency is now going to be called security-intelligence. It'll be cut short by the B.I.A. Here they say -- agency, but it's a common noun that includes a lot of things. Members of the B.I. are what-- bi-aci? We don't know if they'll accept it. That's what the account was used to do before, so let's say the UDB members were widowers or rescuers. Later, they cut this "U" short, so it was just DB, so those members were fat. Before that, they were members of the OZNE - label, and our OZNA is learning everything and so on. I don't know what these names are going to be, the Beys, I'm not sure it sounds nice, something looks like a battle, and they're scribes at churches, and don't really defile those congratulatory people. Of course, the association is quite random. It's possible, when you invented this name, that you could take care of it. In this law on the security - information agency, it is argued - that additional funds need to be provided in the Republic of Serbia's budget to implement this law. Here, let's say my question is, which, in what amount; I'm simply interested. If that's impossible to say, a dinar in a dinar, make it orientational. Otherwise, I really believe in the government's good intentions to pass this anti-mafian and this other law on the security-information agency, that this is all done at the invitation of the people, all for our greater security. I don't really know if there's an organized crime. I just didn't hang out with people like that and nobody tipped me off. I can only feel as a citizen that there's something. I notice that even in small areas, there are even some local bosses that show up in some places, cafes, and then they park the jeeps and put it in the middle of the street, so they're blocking their space, it's probably their need to show that the boss is in that part of the territory. Everything I talked about was in the dark. This is really a principle debate. Did I pass 10 minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23806	Since you haven't, 14 minutes, you're using a second call, for the next 10 minutes, I asked you, you've extended to speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23807	Yeah, but I have a really careful listener, so what else do you want to know? (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: I am the only one here who listens very carefully.) E, I'm grateful for that. And Pal really ran, since there were two resistors in the MUP, it was RB and JB and Pal's portfolio for this second resort in the mood for work, the ministers take care of him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23808	According to the Rules of Procedure? I didn't hear he had a basis for replication, just a moment to consult. Here you go. My colleague said the SPS was mentioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23809	The President-in-Office, Mr. Prime Minister, I am reporting on the replica of the previous MP's presentation, because it is obvious that election processes and marketing have started and that the on-call culprit is responsible for all the SPS. Here it is said, please, notorious untruth, that the SPS used and abused the State Security Service. The National Security Service has been before, and I hope it's only legal now. The SPS can be politically responsible for everything, but the SPS has never built itself a republican government and was the sole holder of the government in 1990 to 1992. There were many parties and their representatives who were even then, and they were now at very prominent state functions and they logically, by nature things, because the greatest believers are those who change faith, do not like to remember what they were doing or are now trying to convince everyone, and first you, that they were good now, and that they were not before and that they were with whom they were bad. Thirdly, crime is a social phenomenon that follows the continued development of human society and has always existed to a greater or lesser extent. In various forms he also appeared in a different volume. We often talk about crime against crime, we talk about the past 10 years, as if crime had never happened before. Connecting it only to the SPS is not correct. We have heard in the presentation of Mr. Prime Minister one set of elements that gives partial answers to what has been going on in the past 10 years with us, without mentioning the meaning of any political option. It is our mission as a society, as a state to fight crime and it is our job to establish democratic forms and mechanisms that will punish all those who have committed something against the law and against citizens. But also to establish one control over the government. Half a year ago, also using the right to the replica of one MP, I said that I would never dare to give an assessment that he said at that time that the previous government had committed certain crimes, that is, it was a matter of murder. Remember, the Home Office a few months ago, I think seven or eight months ago, issued a list of unsolved murders that occurred in the past period. So what, it happened that 12 of them were committed from 1990 to 2000 to 2001, and from 2001 to 13. Who would be smart enough to say it was done by this authority, as some MPs have the nerve to say. It is our job to adopt laws that will allow anyone who commits a crime in this country to be punished as a guilty person, not to engage in ordered criminal charges, not to engage in ordered investigations, because they cannot do anyone any good and at least to the one who orders them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23810	The Prime Minister, Mr. Zoran Djindjic, called.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23811	Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to say after this debate in principle that there have been no more serious objections to the idea of passing a law that will be at Parliament's plea these days. So no one has disputed the need for this phenomenon to be contained in our society, that it seems in a legally-regulated way and that our society needs one more efficient institution organisation to deal with the phenomenon of crime. I think the most important thing is that there's a consensus that we have a problem, that we have to solve it, that the resources we have are not effective enough for it and that we need to do something more effective. Some have said that these funds proposed in the law are not effective enough, so they should be more. We can agree with that, but if we can do more, then we can do less. If we are not able because of other legal restrictions, above all in the Constitution of Serbia and Yugoslavia, to pass a European, stricter law; when I say European, then I do not mean softer than sharper, because this is one of the rare situations where we are below the level of Europe in terms of the severity of legislation. So we're considered an authoritarian country that's been in the authoritarian system for 50 or 60 years, but when you look at legislation and criminal policy towards crime, then you see that it's the easiest one in Europe. When I talk about European standards in this area, I count on the punishment to be two or three times higher than what is being said today. There is a small misunderstanding in whose jurisdiction and how this entire area will be regulated. So, this proposal that went public, it included about a whole of tactics and acts on organised crime, but not all things are such that they are regulated by one law, but they are regulated in at least three fields. One field is specific rules for the prosecution of perpetrators of organised crime, and this can only be regulated on a federal level under the current Constitution. The government of the Republic of Serbia has made a rounded proposal for change, it is now in the federal government and we hope that on Monday or Tuesday the proposal, as a pandan of this current law, will be voted upon and then these bodies that we are establishing in this law in the Republic Assembly will be complemented by certain changes that will then give them content. The second level is the organisation itself, and we were talking about the organisation today, so the structure of the bodies that should be more effective in countering organised crime and these are special organisations foreseen by this law. The third is a special measure of conduct in these organisations themselves, which is a system of internal rules and it is discussed in the public, but cannot be part of the law; the government has not given up on that system, from the special rules in those services, but will have the special rules of this service to determine according to this new organisational scheme. Of course, anything is possible Communism. They don't need institutions, for example. They're just needed where society can't agree to work. In principle, it is possible for existing few institutions to solve some problems, if that happens. But what do we do if it doesn't happen - then we can give up everything and say: it's not possible to solve or try to create more professional and more specific institutions. Of course, if the D.A. were to do his job in some ideal conditions, it would have to solve all of this, and then there would be no special prosecutions dedicated to some particular problems; but, unfortunately, that's not happening. The good news is, if this is bad, that in other countries it doesn't happen, or other countries, which have the prosecution of 200 or 300 years old, they still have a special prosecutor. They have courts that have a long tradition, which are independent, well-paid, and yet have special courts, special protection of these judges and particularly protected witnesses. So we are not a very big exception; simply, human societies have so many problems that regular institutions are not always able to solve all these particular problems in an efficient way, as citizens would like. That is the logical reason why we propose this law, which is nothing spectacular, because it cannot be, if it should remain within the system that we have as a European country. We can't think of anything new right now, and then we'd say, yeah, that'll solve the problem, because then it would carry the issue of controlling those organs and their great powers. Because if we say that someone who should now be fighting organized crime that is dangerous, he should have so much jurisdiction himself, and what if he becomes part of organized crime? So, we can't go to that other extreme, to give these institutions so much jurisdiction that then we become hostages of these special institutions, as in one period, the greatest criminals were actually the ones who were authorized to suppress organized crime, because no one could control them, they could arrest whoever they wanted, they could do whatever they wanted, co-operate with crime, all allegedly in the interest of countering crime. So we have to have some moderate approach, because we are not a society that has protective mechanisms that would react very quickly to this potential new danger. But it must be taken into account that this law is part of the mosaic, which must be made at other levels, and it is a part of an integral crime prevention strategy, which also has its other parts - cooperation with customs; cooperation with some other services in countering smuggling and illegal trafficking, security in schools; street security; police officer at schools; tests for early drug use. There are a whole series of measures that have some logical circle, but you have to understand that it's not easy to establish institutions in one society that have functioned for many years in principle outside institutions. I'm not saying it valuely or negatively or positively, but the bottom line is that in 1945 we got a system that had its own facade, which was institutions, constitutions, rights and all that was nice in the tamfasade, and behind that the system of power and power that rested on the party lines, on personal responsibilities; we had two systems -- one that was institutional and not very valuable, and other institutional, which was most important. Society has created culture, people believe certain things they have experienced that are important, which are relationships, these are positions, it's intervention, and they don't really believe much of what's institutional, because 50-60 years it hasn't really been worth much. There, people should now be accustomed to strengthen these institutions through behavioral changes, and they should give people reasons to trust them. But it doesn't last a year, it doesn't last two, it doesn't last three, it lasts much longer. I don't want us to spread the illusion that this is going to be a problem crime solution, but we're showing determination to solve it and gradually put people in charge of solving it at the disposal of instruments and then they can't say tomorrow -- we'd do it, but we don't have instruments. They'll have instruments, and if there's no progress in that, then there'll be personal responsibility at all levels. I've been doing a lot of work on this phenomenon for the past year, knowing that the public is very irritated and I have an understanding for individuals who say -- we would really do it, but who guarantees that we won't be the next to end up there in some gutter? Who can protect us, how can I tell my wife and kids tomorrow that they're safe, when she tells me she recognizes me and says, well, I know you, you're there, you live here and there, nothing, just say hello to your wife and kids. I understand that a certain justification for inefficientness in countering the most violent types of crime is a lack of institutional protection for people who need to do so. We are now trying to introduce this institutional protection in two ways: one of the special organisational forms, and the other by focusing the public on these cases. If you have a special court, if you have special people who do so, then you will know when, what day these cases are in that court, and then the public will be a control mechanism, to see if the punishment will be mild. Like in all other countries, on television first news, e.g. At the BBC, it's if there's a hard-on against some criminal, then it's important to society as a whole. This happens in some small courtrooms, in one room divorces a couple, another is tried by a multiple murderer, in a third degree, and that actually creates one false equality of all criminal cases; this changes. The particular question is, is there a mob with us, such a criminal and that we need to prove it now to justify these instruments? There is organized crime in every country, and there is no difference; there is no such thing as previous history: there is also in Singapore; there is also in Switzerland; there is more in Switzerland than in Singapore; there is in Norway; there is in Sweden. Here, read today's paper, a bomb went off somewhere, whether in Oslo, whether in Stockholm. So there's organized crime in all complex societies and now there's a question of instruments and wills to contain it. And the question arises -- is there a political structure in the one country that has the will to deal with these conflicts and does it have instruments? These instruments can be regular and extraordinary. But the fact is that even those countries that have political will, even though they have regular instruments, reach for extraordinary instruments, and that is an explanation for us, which is why we can also talk about special bodies. There is no doubt, in my opinion, about the issue of government relations to crime. As I think, not wanting to offend anyone, that there is no doubt about the relationship of the previous government to crime, but I would say not only the previous authorities, but I would say society in general. It was not the previous government on the cover of our high-pitched magazines that put criminals, who were idols and heroes; it was not the appearance of goldng chains hanging around the neck of a criminal who could be watched every five minutes by large TV stations was prescribed either in the Assembly, nor did the past government prescribe it. But the past power was tolerant of it. I don't want to speak without evidence of various involvements, but the fact that you now list large cases of crime in the past, that you will see that all of their participants were at least in one phase co-workers of state security and that they had national security IDs, and you have that as evidence. Whether it was in one phase, whether the criminals found power or the government found criminals, who knows, but the fact that the intertwination existed. She doesn't exist today. So today's government in any of its domains, not in any of its work, is related to crime. When I say that crime has been systematically defeated in Serbia, then I mean it, then I mean systemic ties and crime. In those countries where crime has the support of the government, there is no talk about the prevention of organised crime, there are no such laws on the assembly agenda and there is no debate about it. But it's not Serbia today. This does not mean that there is no organised crime and that it will not be in Serbia for the next 200 years, as well as in all other normal countries. That doesn't mean the clues and consequences of that crime didn't stay. So if we say that the system mafia and crime were defeated, then they lost that foothold that made them that size they had. They are now individuals, groups, of course, powerful, of course with money, of course with connections; these relationships that occur on fronts, and over ten years they don't break up so easily; we're aware of that. But that's why both the parliament and the institutions are given support to the escans gradually drying up that swamp of crime, and we're doing it. Those numbers I read to you, the relationship of the first six months of this year and last year, shows that we have some results. I'm always skeptical of the results in that domain, because every stolen car and every man killed is too much, but if 50% is less than last year, then there's some progress. So you can't say there's more crime than there was. On the contrary, there are fewer of these six months than there were six months last year and efficiency in solving these mostly common crimes is much greater than it was before. I'm not talking about these extraordinary crimes, where efficiency is the same as before, that is. very small, but this concerns several cases of public life known people who were victims of violent crime. Finally, let me say two more things. The first thing is that if we are talking today about solving the consequences of last time, then it's not exactly a realistic expectation that only with the existing law and its application we can do it completely; because, someone has acquired some of his criminal affairs a position which is now legal and no need to deal with this crime anymore. In the eyes of people he's still a criminal, but you don't have as an organ evidence of it. You can't have evidence from five, six, seven years ago, and right now if this individual isn't involved in crime but uses the fruits of his earlier crime, in the eyes of the local public he is a criminal and people are irritated why nothing is happening to him, but if you want to respect the law, you can't now on the basis of public opinion of someone to prosecute. The second thing, only by adopting one tax administration system, which will allow the source of financial resources to be checked, will we be able to include that element of crime. You can report to a tender today through any firm, you don't have to offer certain conditions, and virtually no one can verify the sources of income that you obtained in order to be able to answer. So if you offer something that's yours, there's no legal possibility of asking now whether a tax is paid on that, on that house, on that villa, on that fortune; whether it's acquired in a regular way, through an account with certain obligations that follow from that or that came from somewhere, maybe even from organized crime. I think that since autumn or winter this year we will have this instrument, so we will be able to cover each other's extra space and thereby cut down another source of funding for something which is a grey economy and which is an illegal business in Serbia. But these are mechanisms that go behind each other and it is not easy to pass such a law, nor to write such a law for Serbia, as most of the laws we have passed so far mean a certain period of preparation, consultation, compliance with European standards. In the end, I want to say something which is one of the collateral benefits of this law and of what we intend to do, unlike the many damages that every measure carries. This is of one benefit and it's not intended, but it's very important. In fact, responsibility is brought to public speech on crime, which doesn't seem important at first sight, but it is very important for the culture of our society and for the democratic future of our society. If we have effective police mechanisms in the criminal police to find clues, to determine the facts, if we have an effective investigative fact-finding judiciary, then it won't be possible for everyone to go out on any ledge and blame everyone for being a murderer, for ordering murders, for being a criminal, for being corrupt, for being a mob. Then they'll be responsible for each other. If you have an effective evidence collection system, then the responsibility of the one who speaks without evidence will be much greater. Today it's a cloudy water in which anyone can hunt, because today telling someone to order a murder is like in another country telling someone to order coffee. It's not good for positive energy, for the morale of this society. It spreads the bad image of this country in the world. Today, there are organizations in our society who would like the situation in our society to be worse than it is, because that would result in their special role. Today you have thousands of people who come from abroad to help our country and who are full of ears here that this is a country of risk, organized crime, because if that's the case, then some freedom and justice fighters are still needed, they can still be financed, they can still be stimulated from abroad and they defend democracy and freedom. That's very ugly. It is very ugly that publicly in the media and in special talks with diplomats some people are slandering their country by saying something that is not true, namely that this country is not safe, that in this country every day someone gets kidnapped or killed and that there is a rope between government and crime in this country. It's a lie, and that lie can be tolerated because it's a very difficult procedure to determine the truth. I hope that this law and this other package of measures will make it easier to determine what is true, and then whoever did something should be responsible for it, but if he did it and if it is in a legally regulated procedure. Fortunately, although the words in Serbia are cheap, actions are more important than words and we have, as a country, the credibility we had in the previous year and a half or two days. It is not true that there are any doubts of important international organisations regarding the situation in our country. We had yesterday's report from the International Monetary Fund, as the strictest assessor of reforms on the globe, an organisation that, when it announced its arrival, then the governments got nervous in Turkey, Argentina, Brazil, governments representing 100 million inhabitants. The IMF has brought an extremely favourable report on the state of reform in our country, concerning institutional changes, legal changes and the situation in the real economy. Secondly, the European Investment Bank approved a 95m-euro loan yesterday under the most favourable conditions of 20 years, the free years of grace periods, with a 4% interest per year for the construction of our roads, based on an insight into the records of how the previous loan was used and how the tender procedures for road construction took place last year. We refurbished about 350 kilometers of roads last year, and this year we're going to be about 850 kilometers. Based on these 350 kilometers, we got practically green light for these 850 kilometers. All tenders for road construction are organised in accordance with European standards. The fact that some company reported and offered better conditions than others is European tender conditions. We really can't, given that someone has some private information or someone has some suspicion, that we can rule someone out of the tender, because that might mean that some other interested group wants to eliminate. We have to deal with this and I don't think it's a bad thing for European regulations in tenders, public procurement in our country, and we hope that we will become a country similar to European Union standards, which is not perfect, but which is quite a success in solving our problems. So, there's no concern, and everything that's being slandered is at the expense of this country, this government, and it's about organised crime, it's not luck at the reception of international public opinion, which doesn't mean that it should continue. I think we should take a lot more care of the words we use, because words are important. I think we'll become one serious country if we respect what we say first, so we can respect what others say.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23812	We move to a debate in the order of the elected MPs, with a reminder that, according to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, authorised representatives, or ministers in the Government and the president have the right to report during the principle debate at any time and there is no limit to the duration of the debate. First on the list of MPs reported for debate, international MP Živorad Rakovic, followed by MP Milos Lukic. The time for the Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group is 10 minutes and 48 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23813	I must confess that Mr. Prime Minister has taken away a few of the thoughts I wanted to make. I'm going to expose it so much shorter. DHSS a priori and without reserve acceptance of the proposed law. Whether they're going to be called with a dot, a dot or a dot one way or another, that's irrelevant, but the bottom line is that the proposed laws are the result of a very difficult situation in the system of values in our society. When we talk about crime, about this so many and so widespread social phenomenon, it seems to me that we are not or individuals are not sufficiently aware of what this so widespread negative activity means, how destructive it is for a society, because it practically destroys all the moral standards on which relatively healthy society rests. Unfortunately, colleagues and colleagues, we belong to those societies, don’t mind me using a slightly harder and sharper term, which is called in science to some extent pathological societies, diseased societies. Unfortunately, that's the way it is. These laws try to alleviate to some extent this negative evil that was conceived far earlier, although today we are discussing here as if it were a social phenomenon that was created about a year or two ago. On the contrary, it is known that crime is a phenomenon that is legal in all societies. And we need to know that there are societies where this phenomenon is minimalized, minor, and there are societies, like ours, in which crime has been committed. Otherwise, there's more than one type of crime. We're talking about crime in general. There are political, economic crime, there are various crimes that fall into the most serious forms of crime. We're about to put it in the same basket. Please, we need to be aware of one fact, which is that in its beginning it was created in the previous social system. We keep talking about changing power. No, I don't. We've actually changed the social system and inherited that, besides what's positive; we can't and the priority is to say, everything's negative, before me it was all bad, and I'm just going to do something that's best. In this system, this negative phenomenon has spread, it represents, to a good extent, a social cancer wound that has metastasised to some extent. All of us in this high house have an honorable duty, but also an obligation, and a great commitment to our people and citizens of Serbia, to make laws and social rules that will correct everything that is negatively, violently created and founded. We forget it. So, once again, these are the necessary laws, we shouldn't make any more deals, bid. We can only appeal, because not only can sanctions, but there is a dissident among them, we can not only do so and these sanctions change what is evil in this society; if society is to some extent in such a state, and yes, the fact is, in addition to that, hard-working health workers, sociologists and other socio-humanist scientists. So if we want to ease it faster, more versatilely, not end it, because no society is immune from it, we need to appeal, remember well, to the family as a society cell; a healthy family allows healthy society; so to appeal to school as an institution, start from basic to university, to health care, to the social environment. Smart people said a long time ago: most often, people are not born and bring no evil or good into the world. Many circumstances make one become evil, become a negative person. We absorb it as if it simply doesn't exist as a significant factor. So, to conclude, that I would not be teachingly burdensome with your attention, I suggest on behalf of the DHSS and my own, given all of this in terms of what I said, that we act not only on sanctions, but also on the engagement of all of these social activities and factors, which make man to the most positive or to some extent negative personality, to do far more than we have so far, in order to alleviate all of these types of crime, including above all of these laws, that is, how it is spoken in sociology, social rules or social rule. So that I don't give lectures, because this isn't a debate club, it's a high home, and some colleagues tend to give lectures like we're about in school benches, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23814	The word has been made by MP Milos Lukic, an MP for the SSJ parliamentary group. The following is MP Milisav Petkovic, the DOS parliamentary group, who is next registered for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23815	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Mr. Prime Minister, the Honorable Ministers, we have before us a law on the organisation and jurisdiction of state authorities in the repression of organised crime, as well as a law on the security and information agency. I have a handicap for what I'm saying after the Prime Minister and it's obvious that the concentration of our MPs has fallen. I will try, what approach I have not noticed so far with the other MPs, to take an analytical look at these regulations and find what is good and what could be resented, all in order to pass the regulations that will be effective and applicable in countering crime. What do you get from these suggestions? We get a special prosecutor's office, we get a special service to contain organized crime, special or special court departments, special detention unit, some people get special powers. All of these require special funds, i.e. new funds, which normally go to the burden of our citizens and these economies. In the announcement of these regulations, we could hear that we're getting Elliot Ness J.J.I. century. When it comes to Elliot Ness, he's obviously been late for 100 years. Namely, this isn't the beginning of the HH century. This country is not threatened by foreign spies who steal, masked as tourists or beggars, photograph our military or police facilities. This is the HHI century, a century of technique, and obviously, we all know well, foreign intelligence services have more information about us, about our economy and about our security than we do ourselves. In that part, the dilemma remains, are all these assets appropriate to this time? The opinion of the members of the Soviet Union is that the existing state authorities, which are to deal with this problem, did not have sufficient authority and were not sufficiently stimulated to do this job. According to prosecutors, courts, police, they were practically handcuffed and many phenomena that could work effectively, using their knowledge and experience, to suppress, were not able to contain. There must be questions for that, which is why, but there are answers. The prime minister's speech, particularly in the first part, highlighted the part and contained a lot of critical references to the work of police and justice, and reminded him that he was almost half the mandate and that he had more and more to ask whether he and his government were responsible for this situation. We have a situation where regular state authorities, such as members of the MUP, prosecutors and courts, have been brought into a position of subjugation. In fact, they are certainly underrated by these new organs that we receive from these regulations. It is certain that there will be a lot of resistance and more certainty that the efficiency and quality of the work of these, I say, regulatory authorities will be questioned and significantly thrown. Our interventions in the first law, the law on the organisation and jurisdiction of the state authorities in countering organised crime, concern several details. First, we have a phenomenon in Article 2 that says this law is used to counter crime against constitutional order and security of the SRJ. Is it a printing error or was the formulation used in another regulation? In any case, we believe that this parliament should pass a law that will protect the constitutional order and security of the Republic of Serbia. In that sense, our parliamentary group has given one amendment. In the same article, we have a list, in point 3, of what it's all about. Among other things, we have human trafficking. We believe that trade in human organs should also be added, which is also in the world-sanctioned world, to conditions that can seriously undermine the country's reputation and respect for all those institutions that need to fight these phenomena. As for the Special Prosecutor's Office and the Special Prosecutor's chapter, we believe that, according to the Law on the Prosecutor's Office, which was recently in this assembly and supplemented, and we hope that these supplements will be accepted, we should also treat the issue of authority, the jurisdiction of the choice of deputy special prosecutor. Namely, if it's the mistake of the one who wrote this legal text, but we have a special prosecutor and a special prosecutor, we have treated deputies and prosecutors from other prosecutors who can be sent to the Special Prosecutor's Office, but we haven't treated the deputy special prosecutor. We believe that they deserve, according to the D.A.'s Law, to be properly treated. When a question is raised about what kind of state and what kind of Serbia we want, it is always a question for one or the other, for the government or the opposition, who wants the state. We in the Soviet Union certainly want Serbia as everyone else wants it, and that is Serbia in which it is, in which it is earned, in which people, with their will and pleasure, go to their jobs in the morning, not fearing for their family's safety; it is Serbia that will be equal in relations with abroad, which will be worthy of these relations and who will not be ashamed of the world. Of course, it is difficult for all segments to function in one country, but it is certain that it is the wish of all of us. In some ways we get the impression that these regulations, given their content, offer one impression of collective paranoia, the collective fear of all of them and the fear of various agencies, various services, so far existing and new, so that a certain amount of uncertainty is added among our citizens, of course, among those who perform significant state functions, significant functions in the judiciary, administrations, etc. Young people in Serbia are now facing a dilemma: whether they should opt for the path of crime or perhaps better to identify themselves, given these stimulating supplements, on their way to join the police, and get interests in the area, and now new occupations - informant, spy, etc. We believe that the solution is that our people get jobs, go to their jobs for machines, go to fields and work. In that case, this country would certainly have something to boast about. This looks like a little joke, but it's just like that, 'cause I almost don't know young people thinking about some serious job. The reviews of the Prime Minister are extremely sharp, I would say, when assessing the work of the Ministry of Justice and the work of the Ministry of Police, since it has been said that there is great inefficiency in the work of these bodies, that it is slowly tried, that criminal policy is not good, etc. I think we're coming to that topic that we had a few days ago, that the government and its ministries should be getting closer to what their activity is about, that they kind of relate to you, that they're harmonising, that they understand the problems in these services. I claim that in our judiciary, there are very high-quality, valuable and responsible people in our police department who are willing to work, who are not politically damaged, nor are they burdened with some of the remains of the previous regime, etc. The Soviet Parliament group tried to correct this text with amendments in one correct way and make it more applicable. We hope that at least a good part of those amendments will be accepted. As for the law on the security-intelligence agency at the Ministry of the Interior, we believe that the application of this bill is premature and should remain until autumn, along with a set of other laws on the Ministry of the Interior. Given the fact that these regulations are only applicable from March next year, there was no reason to go so early into submitting this proposal. However, when it comes to the law on the organisation and jurisdiction of state authorities in the repression of organised crime, the Soviet Union will support the bill, as the aim is to finally discover the perpetrators of unexposed murders, kidnappings, and then to identify and discover criminal organisations in Serbia. We believe that above all, the interests of the security of citizens, members of their families, are their property. That is why we will support the draft law on the prevention of organised crime.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23816	The word has been made by MP Milisav Petkovic, the DOS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23817	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Prime Minister, we are facing today two legislative projects relating to the repression of organised crime. When it comes to conclusions, there is no difference in our opinions: first of all, we agree that there is organised crime in Serbia; secondly, that we are all agreed in our Serbian Assembly to suppress, eradicate or resolve the issue; thirdly, we agree that organised crime has gone so far as to have certain power centres in both the media and political organisations. We can't do a good law enforcement project if we don't study and study the genealogy of crime groups. I see the genealogy of the formation of crime groups in an unorganized and organized war crime, which has shaken this area for 10 years. Paramilitary and parapolitan, various volunteer organisations, cruised across Serbia from south to Horgos, from Drina to Bor. I also see a crime-making gene in the fact that ten years after the abduction of the passenger from Strpce, we don't know who did it, and no one has been convicted in that case. Fellow MPs, only 200km from Belgrade, are away from Srebrenica. For this assembly speaker in 1994, when I was talking about the crimes of Srebrenica, certain colleagues, who are sitting in this assembly, were declaring me a national traitor, as well as other my colleagues, people who spread lies. Today, we heard from the head of a parliamentary group that he admitted there was a crime, that there were murders in Srebrenica. Violent mobilization, too. People from Serbia were kidnapped and led across the battlefield, from Croatia, Republika Srpska, to Kosovo. This is how cases happened, like in my Little Zvornik, police from Republika Srpska cross Serbia, kidnap a man and take him to war only because he was born in a hospital in Zvornik, and there was no such hospital in Mali Zvornik; they took the man to the warground, and then they returned and offered "good service" to his wife, who remained alone in the apartment. They were wandering around Serbia, destroying and destroying system structures, destroying the state, destroying families, destroying the community, destroying anything that could have been torn apart over the past ten years. There's no state that has no crime. But only in this country until the last two years did criminals have their own country. And if it is necessary to look for a connection between criminals with politicians, it is necessary to look there: for those who carry pictures of people who have committed war crimes; or at least they blame themselves for committing war crimes; for those who propagate that it was not there, and for the first time today they declare that it was, although it is a "great world conspiracy". Among other things, mosquitoes can't ask when it's gonna be dusting. Nor can frogs wonder when the bar will dry. And we, legislators, are not going to ask here - when, in what way, we are going to fight the most large forms of crime, the kidnapping of people and children, the entry into other people's homes. Just a year ago, a certain Gavrilovic broke into my friend's apartment and drove him away even though he had a court solution. I don't know if it has anything to do with the current Gavrilovic or that Gavrilovic who was killed. Dear friends, there is no other, if we want to be honest in the fight against crime, we must support these legal projects, we must support the police, who today has the greatest responsibility, never again in Serbia of paramilitary formations, not police or military, not to be, that we never again glorify the leaders of paramilitary formations to the extent that they become the greatest national heroes. Let's support the law in the fight against organised crime. It's our responsibility. It's an obligation we owe both to our children and to our generations.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23818	The word has been made by MP Vojislav Seselj, a member of the SRS. After a break, the first registered speaker is MP Marin Kresic from the DOS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23819	Am I going to speak until 2:00 or am I going to be able to continue?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23820	You know how, I've already told you, Article 91 of Section 3 says that a parliamentary group doesn't have to use the time it has at its disposal, or it doesn't have to make full use of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23821	I have to.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23822	You have 27 minutes. You're the only one reported from the party.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23823	I've been assigned by a parliamentary group, and I have to.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23824	I'm just warning you, you don't have to.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23825	So, we're just moving the break a little bit.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23826	You don't have to.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23827	Okay, but now I'm telling you I have to. That means we're moving the break.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23828	We're gonna move a little bit. If you must. (Pal Shandor, from the place: No, no. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23829	It's settled, Shandore. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, government MPs, the parliamentary majority, together with the Prime Minister and his ministers, swear today after two years that they will fight crime and by their oath they explain these two little laws, which don't mean anything in principle. We expect deeds from you, not words. (votes-au) Not to attack the opposition or the Serbian Radical Party that we are your main culprits that you can't do anything, but show that your ability. (votes-immunity... What? Is this about immunity? I didn't hear right. (louds - don't flaunt) I'm immune to your raffles, at least that's what it's shown so far, and we'll see in the future. But it's not about that, it's about you and your ability, or incompetence. Come on, clear up at least one spectacular murder. Come on. Jagodina is such a small town that the potential murderers of Milan Pantic can be counted on their fingers. It's the first reporter to be killed as a journalist, just for journalism. There's no crime involved in a man, I swear to the citizens of Jagodina. Only because of journalism was he killed. Let's get some moves in here. Do something about Ivan Stambolic. The last government was only a month old. She may not have done anything serious, but she was only a month old. It happened right before you came to power. Why did you refuse to form a survey committee? At the federal level, you refused to form a committee of inquiry to examine these facts and circumstances. Why didn't you do it? Why didn't you clear up and proceed to the end of any previous-term murders? It's got data. Your police generals and your current active officers, the colonels, the majors say Stanko Subotic-Cane was in contact with General Badz, and that's why Badja was killed, about the smuggling of cigarettes. That's what they say, not me. I didn't even know that until they told me. I knew from other sources, but I didn't know from the police mouths. It's funny to Zoran Djindjic; well, of course, it would be funny to me too... (votes - military secret) It's not a military secret, let it go. You should have made that clear. Now you realize you're not capable, so your system is wrong. But you haven't brought any more murderers into custody to an investigative judge. Ivan Delic came to Belgrade so many times after the assassination of Defence Minister Pavlovic, and no one even questioned him. Which, for once, you didn't bring him in to take his prints. In part, some of the prints were found there at Rada's stadium after the murder, so you could compare that they weren't his. Why didn't anyone do it? Is it such a fear of this Ivan Delic, whether he's afraid of other mobsters, murderers or something else, make it clear. As I learned of a murderer, I also revealed: for Skolet Uskokovic while he was alive, the most alive was for involvement in Arkan's murder; and for Andri Draskovic; for some others. And nothing. You see, to deal with these laws of yours, it's nicer when I talk about something else than the law, let's talk about the laws now, Chad. You see, you're making laws that in practice won't sign anything, but you bring them in an unskilled way. For example, in this law on the organisation and jurisdiction of state authorities in the prevention of organised crime, Article 2(3) speaks of counterfeiting and money laundering. Why don't you explain to me what money laundering is? It's a tent term, slang or what to call it, it doesn't matter, in Serbian literary language it doesn't mean what you want it to mean. How can the court talk about money laundering and say it's a verdict for money laundering? It can't. It can't stand in serious law. Money laundering isn't an international term, that's not true. There's money illegally acquired, it's the widest formulation, illegally acquired, and if it's illegally acquired, at least it's not tax paid for it. There is money earned by criminal activities, money as a result of a crime, etc. But money laundering, how can this judge interpret? You're planning here today to separate the National Security Service from the MUP, and you haven't explained that enough. Why is the National Security Service out of the MUP? Because the minister is unable to control it, because the Prime Minister does not trust the minister or because you plan to have the service with a much smaller degree of control than it has so far. So far, if the Service screws up, a request is submitted to the Assembly for the discharge of the minister, because the Service directly corresponds to the minister. As you have now provided for the Service as a special agency, its manager, chief, director, as you call it, listen - director, is not responding to the National Assembly and it cannot make a decision on his shift. If he's not responding to the National Assembly, he's practically not answering to anyone. Just because he's responding to the Prime Minister means he'll listen blindly to the Prime Minister and nothing more. Furthermore, here you are saying that it is the obligation of the Service to report on your work at the request of the National Assembly, or agency, as you call it. When said -- at the request of the National Assembly, then the parliamentary majority is meant, and if the opposition is in the minority, it cannot vote to ask the agency's director to submit a report on its work. So, only if the parliamentary majority decides, it can. If the director of the agency listens to you and follows parliamentary majority policy, the National Assembly will never discuss the report, its work and the work of the agency as a whole. Look out, he's much more protected than any minister. There's an impelation with the minister, there's an initiative to vote for mistrust. 20 signatures of opposition parties are sufficient for the initiative to vote non-confidential and must be put on the agenda. You have proved that you do not have to; according to the Constitution, according to the Rules of Procedure, you should, but you say that you can vote something against the Constitution because the Constitution is not "Holy Letter", according to Batic; you can also vote against the Rules of Procedure, you can vote and change the date, change the calendar, change the season etc. Here's the question of who this service will answer. There are various systems in the world regarding the secret police or the State Security Service, the constitutional order protection service, as they call it in Germany, etc. What are the basic systems? In Russia, at the time of Stalin, there was the interior ministry in particular, and especially the Ministry of State Security. So, two completely separate ministries, but the same rank. They're not the same rank here. I'll come to these pets of yours, just slowly, hear a little something to learn, when I'm at least so ready to teach you, you appreciate it a little bit. So, with Stalin, it was separate, but both ministers had the same level of responsibility, legally, I'm not talking about those illegal or unfair aspects. There's a clean presidential system in America. There the president has all the executive power in his hands, as you have appointed the presidents of the municipalities with us, he appoints the head of all secret police services. However, consent to the appointment gives both home parliaments. Baby Popovic, do you mean him? Wait, I haven't gotten to Baby yet. I can't do it all at once. There's so many of you. I am not a Free Tomovic for you to be able to defocus or anger me. You're not going to defocus me, you're not going to piss me off, you're giving me a valuable break in exposing those incursions of yours, and that's why I can't wait for the incursions. How's that in America? In America, the president appoints the director of the CIA, the head of the FBI, they have all kinds of security services. In order for him to take his position as appointed by the president, he must appear before parliament, so that parliament can resolve him from all sides, as I am your minister, Mihajlovic and UDBE chief Andrija Savic, for example, in front of the Federal Assembly's survey board, and even more so than that, not by avoiding them from giving answers to individual questions, but by answering each question, and his personal, family, family and order, so when so decided in the respective committees of the Senate and representative home, he can then be appointed to the post. Here, what you're accomplishing with this agency law, as you called it, can't even remember, a security-intelligence agency. What you didn't say -- a state security agency or a secret police force or a political police force, to make it more understandable what's behind this hornet name. The director is appointed and resolved by the Serbian government, and he answers exclusively to the government. Where's your civilian control here, what do you call it? What the West means under civil control is actually civil society control. By the nature of things, the control of civil society can only be carried out by parliament, because only the people in the government are the authorities. It's in the paraliament of both the government and the opposition. Where Parliament's control is scheduled here. She's gone, except when she votes. Where's the back? Let it go, it's your explanation, there's no point at all. You say in your explanation - it should be borne in mind that the National Assembly has the possibility, in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, to regulate its acts on how to control the work of the Agency, and that the control of the work of special organisations by the Government is governed by the regulations in the field of state administration. Yes, it's an explanation that's not published in the Official Messenger. However, there is no possibility in the law that the Assembly will bring the agency under control, except that the parliamentary majority of the vote is required to file a report on the agency's work. There's no other way. How can the opposition participate in the control of this agency? Not at all. Only when you bring the opposition in, you swing your pen and say, "Come on, talk to me." And who's the one who's gonna swing, symbolically, a pendred director of the agency and say, "Come on, say, why did you do this like this, why did you do this?" In Parliament there is no such thing, only the Prime Minister can do it. You've formed a new government body from the agency. This new government body is not provided for by the Government Act and the Ministry Act. Since it's an independent administration, you're hiding with her this law that she has a rank of a special ministry. She does have a special ministry rank. The director of this agency has the same rank as the minister, because you legally predict that the agency can also perform the work of the MUP, and that the director of the agency is agreeing with the interior minister, agreeing on joint activities and taking over and doing business from the ministry's work. So it's a matter of agreement between the two ministers, by calling one of them a minister, so it's subject to Parliament's control; and we've already applied for a non-confidential statement two or three times already, but you don't put it on the agenda at all, and you'd have to do it by the Constitution and by the Rules of Procedure. But that's another thing, it's the Constitutional Court thing, not this debate. However, at least under the regulations he is subject to parliament's control, and his co-worker with whom he must agree is not subject to any control of parliament. Because you say he's the director, he's not the minister. And what's the fundamental difference between the director and the minister here -- there's no fundamental difference. The difference is only in term, to cover up the importance and weight of the function, and nothing more. He's really a minister, but you hide from the public that he's a minister, so he doesn't answer like all the other ministers, and nothing else. Why are you introducing this office as director in the state administration? Why, explain to me what your motive is to introduce, in addition to the top officials of the state administration, ministers, commissioners, these, those, the director of the agency now and why the government's authority to call the agency? Why exactly the agency? In our language when it is said - agency, it is mostly thought of by tourist agencies. So what other agencies do you have that haven't been recompromised in the last few years, let's see which one you still have? It was just the travel agencies, and then we have public opinion research agencies, and maybe this agency will do your research on public opinion, and I'm just very interested in how. Well, I guess now your prisons have improved, so I don't need a blanket to wear a toothbrush, you get all that in prison. You're not going to put me in some prison there "S" category, you're going to go first category. I guess you don't have anyone more valuable than me to arrest, so you're not putting me in some lower category of prison, I expect you to have these De Lux prisons. You see, it may all seem funny, but this has a particular legal significance, the importance far exceeds the power of your laughter, and that's why I don't mind laughing. You have here, responding to my previous exposure, made a whole series of nebulous claims. Let's go from Minister Mihajlovic. Minister Mihajlovic says -- Sreten Lukic and Goran Radosavljevic have no criminal record. I never said those two generals had a criminal record, nor have I called them names for crime so far, as I remember never. I just told you that among them, I liked the only Andrija Savic, because he first arrested me 18 years ago and that the only time after that arrest I managed to prosecute the state for being in prison for three days. I sued the state after three days of being released for lack of evidence, and the state made it up to me. It was enough for dinner for a whole society at the Library Association. I haven't been able to exorcise this yet, I hope, now that you've passed the Rehabilitation Act, that I will succeed. However, this is about two generals, whom I told you the Hague tribunal is preparing for them, and perhaps the indictment is already ready and kept secret. You say they don't have a criminal record. So you know, what criminal record? The Hague doesn't judge crime, The Hague judges alleged war crimes. You say they're not guilty. So you can't convince me that Nikola Sainovic committed war crimes in Kosovo, or ordered; or Milosevic ordered war crimes. I swear he never ordered a war crime, not against civilians, not against prisoners of war. You know, we can talk about him as a statesman all the worst, but he didn't order war crimes, I swear to God. So the minister says of his two current generals, but Lukic was there, the commander in charge. How can Lukic be carried out with corpses, and now Lukic discovers them? So how did he know where they were buried? And what was the point of putting it out, let's have someone explain it to me? And what did you say? Let go of what I said, when you bring me to court, then speak what I said. Watch out, what is this disturbed mind that transports the corpses of the dead from Kosovo and burys them next to the Danube, in northern Serbia? What was the reason? Someone was preparing those burials, to be dug up at the right time, and nothing else. There's no other solution. Why did the one from Zaječar, the Oscar Clipa, change your name and name? He worked at Udba.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23830	I warn you to get back on the agenda and take care of what you say.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23831	I'm talking about fighting organized crime, right? Is that the topic of the agenda? You know what, if you don't like what I'm saying, take my word for it, I'm out of here right now, but don't interrupt me for no reason. I'm talking about organized crime. You cited this law on the fight against organised crime as one of the points of "criminal prosecution of persons responsible for serious violations of international humanitarian law committed in the former Yugoslavia". Is that right, did you say that? Did I miss the theme? Did I? Yeah, well, the arguments don't mean anything to you. He nods to you from the first row, and you react immediately. So do not. If it's any better for you to keep your mouth shut, here, I can keep my mouth shut. Then let me tell you what I've got for the next six minutes. That's all the facts you don't have an answer to. They're very important. Why doesn't one of you come forward because of that big noise about the report by the Survey Committee on the murder of Pavel Bulatovic. See what your media and media are like under your direct control? Criminals are referred to as tough guys and they promote in public, that you raise the younger generation in their spirit, to popularize crime. See how many people with a criminal record have been employed at the Federal Interior Ministry since you arrived at power; several hundred. I was talking about the Burgie brothers. I guess you haven't got the glass yet, you'd need more glass to hire. So you don't feel the desire and will to deal with organized crime. When you solve the first few cases, then you might make me change my mind, but you haven't solved one yet. Why didn't you? You know it best. You can't call mobsters and criminals respected businessmen, you can't have a man in 10 years to gain a fortune of ten million marks, without direct involvement in crime, you can't. It's absolutely impossible, especially when it comes to your illiterate like Stanko Subotic Canet and similar. You're constantly filing criminal charges against me, you're running investigations, and you're not judging me. It's 20 lawsuits and what you're waiting for. At least you can order it to the judges. I know, you can't order judges to prosecute others, your left-wing political opponents, but that's why you put them down here, and I guess you can, in my case, because I'm attacking judges and prosecutors, I guess it's easier for you to convince them to finally convict me. Think of something. I can't wait. Guys, it's time for a man to feel safe in prison, that only there will he be safe. This is where Vladan Batic tells me I'm denuant. The government minister, who delivered Milosevic, Milomir Stakic, the Banovic brothers, has no one to deliver and personally conduct them, took them to the airport, sent ministers there, sent back, miracles, and I, the denudent, the only one who sprayed and vilified the Hague tribunal when they tried to talk to me. I'm a denuant now. Says Batic, insider, K25. Unfortunately, I was checking out earlier when I was dating, and I couldn't possibly be an insider of K25, but I could be somewhere K23 and a half, K23.8 and that would be fine. An insider, an insider, not an outsider, to point that out. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this is a very serious topic. Of course, there's not so much serious about it that it's not worth laughing at. I agree with you on that, only here is laughter suited to those who love black humor. I'm a big fan of black humor and you'll always make it easy for me to laugh on my face, but harder and harder times are playing in Serbia. You're not going to fight this crime. This isn't the crime that's going to stop it. With this, you will only waste time reorganizing, UDBE, special courts and prosecutors, and will spend months in that specialization, while adapting appropriate services to work on a new organisation. It will be a long time, and in that time, the mafia will continue to do its big jobs, continue to kill, kidnap with extortion, get the best jobs from the state, because if, according to Zoran Djindjic, there is no way that many crimes can be proven, it is probably true, but if someone is known to have committed crimes, then the state will not trust him when he offers the best conditions. America failed to prove to Al Capone that he was a criminal, a murderer, a mobster, etc. So she condemned him for tax evasion, but no government in America ever thought of offering Al Capone a public tender to pave the way for freeways across America. There's a difference.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23832	People's MP, I warn you, your time is up.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23833	Thank you for your kindness and your patience.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23834	I'm setting a break until 3:15. [[After break - 15.40]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please insert identification cards into your MPs to determine the quorum. I find that the application of the electronic system has established that we have a quorum and we can continue to work on the proposal for a law on the security agency and combating organised crime, according to applications for the word of the MPs. The word has been made by MP Marin Kresic, the DOS parliamentary group. The next to be reported is MP Zoran Angelkovic, the SPS parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23836	Ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to waste time repeating the argument that has been made today in favour of the reasons for such a structure and the adoption of such a set of laws. Among other things, because we are bound to do so, as has been said today, the United Nations Convention, and especially because we are all going to agree on the fact that organized crime is actually a man with many heads, which threatens our society from the foundation. I think it's clear to all of us that the fight against such a special system must be led by special methods and means and in a special way. With my technical mind, I can only be relatively visualizing what would result from the adoption of such a law. I can only say that in advance I have admiration and respect for brave men who will enter into the law with their knowledge, strength, strength, and life. It's a system that needs support, that needs to be brought. You'd say that's the way. On the other hand, however, there is an irrefutable fact that there are no in principle perfect laws. We as humans are never perfect. Every thing has its own white and black side, both good and bad, both the front and the last. That's why there's one part of the back of this system of special laws, a gray space that is possible, no matter how carefully we draw up laws, to take one system with special powers into abuse. It is clear, however, that it is necessary to make a careful balance between the obligation of security and human rights. That's what we were talking about today, too. In front of the party I belong to, I have to look back on that part of the topic, us who have given a few amendments, precisely because one of the fundamental things in the DC programme is actually unwavering belief in civil society, the rule of law, the protection of human rights and everything that goes with it. In this sense, we have made an effort to try and try the back of this, resulting, in a certain way, to correct and bring what would be our general goal. There are several reasons why we found it appropriate to do so. First of all, what I said, that our programming base is actually based on these values. Secondly, because, apart from the above international obligations, there are others. On 8 June this year in Strasbourg, our delegation signed an important document at the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly for the first time, a resolution on human rights and the fight against terrorism. That resolution has two signatures. One signature is Christopher Smith, and he's president of the United States Human Rights Committee. The second is Professor Dragoljub Micunovic, president of the Yugoslav Parliament's Council. The third reason is that we, like many of you, felt the consequences of the abuse of some systems that hide special powers and hidden possibilities. The fourth is that, in fact, the danger of abuse as the only victim has citizens and human rights. In that sense, we as a group have given a few amendments. One is on the law against organised crime and five is on the agency law. This first amendment is practically through the discussion of committees in charge of the joint amendment of the competent committee, so that we will give it up in the discussion in particular. We're glad we made our contribution. And on the agency law, we have five amendments, which actually all have the same goal. It is primarily to introduce the organisation processes and parliamentary control in a very binding way. I won't particularly explain the amendments, that's what counterpart Leila Ruzdic will do tomorrow. The second goal is to introduce collectiveity in a discretionary assessment that often appears in the decision-making process. It means it's not a two-man deal. It's always three people. These are the things that are fundamental principles and our parties, and I think they are embedded in the original fundamental principles of most DOS parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23837	National MP Zoran Angelkovic is not present. The word has the People's MP Rada Bajic. I must tell you immediately that MP Zoran Angelkovic will not have his word first, since he was not present when I called him. It was a practice from before. Here you go. Next People's MP, Ljuboljug Grbić.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23838	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when a new law is proposed, it is assumed that there must be a clearly defined area, which will cover the provisions of the law that are being passed, as well as the objectives that want to be achieved by this law. When we got this bill, you probably all thought that round area had to exist. By reading the papers, we do not see that this area is surrounded, although what is happening in the public speaks differently. In other words, if the heads of the MUP and the leaders of this government say there is no organised crime in Serbia, there is no mafia and that the mafia has been systematically defeated; or if the interior minister says they clearly know that in 50 cities, which are 50 cities, there are centres of power of organised crime and that they also know the first people. Therefore, if this is true and there is an organized crime, then it is simply necessary to pass that law. If we call on the leaders' statements and if crime is said to be three times smaller in Yugoslavia than in the surrounding countries, such as Romania, Bulgaria and Croatia, then it is clear that the law on special crime control measures, prosecution of perpetrators of crime, is not necessary. Something's wrong; or it's not true what the leaders of this government said there was no crime, and we're witnessing that some species that have not been known to us so far, such as the abductions of the more visible people. Thus, one form exists and whatever it may be, surely requires the fight against all kinds of crime. Immediately to be clear, SPS MPs and all SPS members are absolutely for the fight and elimination of all types of crime and the eradication of this evil that occurred in Serbia. This law, I'm afraid, is not the same as the law on extraprofits, so unspeakable and selective law. As the one concerned only companies and individuals belonging to the former government... If you are Democrats, gentlemen, please speak here, has your mother raised you to act like one? So, if there is, then it's impossible for the leaders to say it's not there. This law is simply unspoken, it's segmental. It says, in the first article, that this law regulates education, organisation, jurisdiction and authority of special organisational units of state authorities to detect and prosecute perpetrators of criminal offences. By reading the law, except for that other member who says, among other things, that these are criminal acts, and the collapse of the constitutional order of the Republic of Yugoslavia, then against the rights of man and international humanitarian rights, and the sale of weapons, ammunition, intoxicating drugs, marketing, etc., then they see no special competences and what are the special powers of people who need to fight organised crime. In the presentation of the Prime Minister, Zoran Djindjic, I realized that he was not explaining this law, but the provisions of the law that should really come, so that the equipment of the police service that will monitor and prosecute the perpetrators most modernly, to introduce the concept of a protected witness, to ensure that security and special protection measures are given to judges and those who enter the fight against crime. That's what I expected this law to have. However, here, except for these first two members, special terms are introduced, as a special prosecutor, a special public prosecutor, a special department in court, a special unit in police and a special detention unit. Does that mean that just by introducing the term "special," we're actually getting involved and we're winning the fight against crime. I don't see how that's possible so far. There's a minister, so he can answer. I think that every elder in his closet can at times set extraordinary measures and give instructions to his department or to his unit how to act. Surely, for a phenomenon that was not before, he as an elder must organize the ministry so as to be prepared to fight that evil if it has not appeared so far. I think the existing criminal laws actually predicted everything and there's not a single new crime that isn't foreseen in them. I also don't see that the authorities and organisations couldn't organise themselves without the term "special" to engage in the fight against organised crime. But if that name is already needed, then this law is good at bringing in a special prosecutor's office, a special judge, a special unit of police, a special department in the detention unit, but then it's just one segment of the law that needs to regulate this area on organised crime. So, I'm afraid this is just a relationship so it can be said that for the past 10 years, because that's all you've been saying, and that's all you've been saying for the last two years, not to mention that you've been ruling for two years, in fact there's been a time where crime occurred, a time where you've tied people up from the top of that criminal phenomenon, just so that they can distract the public from the problems that are happening and that these people are being accused. How else to interpret Article 2 in this law. Article 2(2) says that, among other things, against humanity and international law is the part that can be treated as having organised crime. Does this mean that now all those people who are in The Hague will be accused of having to do with organised crime and connect, simply, that it is an improvement of the UN tribunal's requirement to bring such people "to justice" and to pass them on to The Hague if necessary. Does this mean that all those on charges, secret and public, and every day there are more secret and public, under this point 2) will be led astray and that our judiciary, or those competent authorities, will bring them in uninterrupted and, if they are not tried here, to pass them on to The Hague? That's why we socialists have a concern that this is going to be a selective law, a law that will be committed to only one group of people. We are for a law that will equally treat every criminal and all perpetrators of crimes, whether he's amateur or organized crime. We want everyone to stand before the law. I'm sure, all of us to one member of the SPS, not to have one hand, but to have a hundred hands, will rise to be passed and all these criminals brought to justice. Therefore, we ask that it be a comprehensive law, that it be indescribable, that it applies equally to those criminals who are now close to the regime and to those you consider to be close to that regime. As long as you think there are bad and good criminals, those who can do whatever they want and declare them successful businessmen, who did not cover the Extraprofit Tax Act, because they are untouchable, as long as you think they can exist, no law will be good.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23839	The word has the People's MP Ljubodrag Grbic, the DOS parliamentary group, and the next reported MP Branko Ruzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23840	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the Ministers, New Democracy welcomes the government's efforts, the interior ministry and the justice ministry to make Serbia a state of freedom, justice and security. The starting point of New Democracy is that the economic, political, religious, cultural, cultural, ecological, informative, security and security of individuals, regardless of religious, nationality, the essence of the security of society and the state and the extent of the impact of all executive, legislative and judicial authorities. Addressing problems that are a complex issue is far from a solution to the problem in one law on the organisation and jurisdiction of state authorities in countering organised crime or the law on the Agency for State Security. The adoption of these laws is considered normally necessary measures to raise the capacity, accountability and efficiency of the state institutions in the area of security, which is here. Dear MPs, Serbia's parliament has not yet adopted a national security strategy, which could clearly show the factors of jeopardising its security, sources and methods of geopolitical, ecological, information, economic, religious and national characteristics of these factors. To be honest, the reasons for the absence of these documents are in the carelessness of the state's institutions. This makes it difficult to focus both citizens and institutions. I would only mention some aspects that point to the complexity of organised crime, whose resolution requires, above all, the application of modern legislation and legal standards, high professionalism in the management of services, public co-operation, the use of many knowledge: economic, legal, ethnological, informational, biochemical, bioenergy, environmental and so forth. Dear MPs, in my knowledge, the area of Serbia is the area of operation of international crime cartels and drug trade unions, prostitution, cigarettes, weapons and piracy of all kinds. In our area, gray nomenclatures operate, with the political objectives of restoring some or all of the elements of the current authoritarian system of authorities in the region. Their networks seem destabilizing, with the intention of geopoliticalally rerouting and stopping our country's Euro-Atlantic orientation. These networks have visible and invisible economic and political nomenclatures. Of course, there are networks with multiple levels and shapes and with classical terrorist intentions in achieving ethnic goals, above all, separation of territories and parts of Serbia and joining other countries. The basic feature of these networks of criminal international cartels is to soften the structures and institutions of the state and adapt them to the objectives of these networks. A softing through the blending of criminal networks, cartels and states does not always take place, not according to the law of the criminal pyramids on the national agenda. It is about the perfided strategies of ad hoc agreements, mostly based on blackmail or corruption of individual members in the most sensitive parts of administration and administration. Individuals often don't know about each other. Let me just mention some general information that's available to me. For example, the World Customs Association announced that the amount of cigarettes was registered on the world's output customs declarations for the past year by 40% higher than the quantity registered on entry customs declarations, also in the world. So it is obvious that large companies also use various mechanisms to penetrate gray markets that are highly protected from the possibility of building factories or more liberal imports. I should also mention a warning from local cigarette manufacturers that about 300 tonnes of cigarettes are being deposited on our premises from the gray market, and they know that much has been done to combat this smuggling. I can't ignore the assumption that the criminal cartels work here. Some kind of network exists. If there is, there is also a high risk that senior representatives of the administration are melted or forced to co-operate with cartels, particularly international character. Dear MPs, New Democracy supports the development of the MUP as a service of citizens and a professional, responsible, auxiliary body of the judiciary, which will not have the authority of executive or legislative authority; it will be subject to European standards of organisation of this service, in principle - a citizen in uniform. We point out once again that the problem is complex and that it concerns the overall functioning of the state. I also want to commend the police on the discovery of the crimes of the international pirate cartel. They are present, more and more, and acts of electronic Internet crime. The issue of Internet abuse is being raised. In fact, the answers are known. Professional, efficient teams and rapid coordination of state services, their good communication and equipment, but also strong analysts and rapid data analysis in teams of different professions. You need to pay the source of information. Knowledge from this area is very expensive. The strategic plan must be to accelerate our integration into the security Euro-Atlantic community of states and peoples. Serbia has a central place in the Central and South European zone. Her strategy is integration. Our internal weaknesses, with intensities to changes in financial institutions, economic-political, security, administrative, must not turn into strategic delays and create space for new authoritarian government models. The new democracy will support the establishment of new legislation in the field of availability of public information, financing of political parties, incompatibility of the functions of independent audit bodies in the area of the budget, revision of the customs declaration and so on. We're also looking forward to very practical things, which the police minister mentioned the other day, about setting up an X-ray to control customs goods. In the affairs of this nature, we see the only chance that, as citizens, we already have the right to Schengen visas, which today have citizens of Bulgaria and Romania. For our citizens, it is a great expectation and we will be grateful to anyone who does something on that road. At the same time, it will be a measure of meeting the basic security standards in Serbia. After the adoption of these two laws in Serbia, citizens will certainly be much safer and safer, which is most important. Therefore, the New Democracy MPs will support them in a warm way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23841	The word has been made by MP Branko Ruzic, the SPS parliamentary group, and the next reported is MP Pal Shandor, the DOS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23842	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, organized crime is a social problem that is present, unfortunately, both in us and in most countries around the world. What is a fundamental question here is to first determine whether organised crime or the mafia in Serbia has at all, given the various statements just the leaders of the law's proposings, who said "the mafia does not exist, that the mafia has been systematically defeated, to know who the main mobsters are, where they are the centres of organised crime". So, if we're passing this law, it means that the mafia isn't systematically defeated, and unless it's systematically defeated, it means there's an open possibility that it has something to do with the system. The latest one, such as the special prosecutor, the president of the district court's special department, the president of the special court of appeals, the chief of staff, the director of the agency, will simply not lead to a solution to organised crime. This termological tightening will not be much achieved in the field of fighting organised crime, as this looks more like a political marketing, rather than a good will to solve the problem. As far as the law itself is concerned, in point 2) of Article 2 of the proposed law, an option is introduced whereby virtually all those accused by the UN tribunal of acts against humanity and international law would be declared exhibits of organised crime, with options to be exported to The Hague or to be tried in the country, as appropriate, because of the national economy. Not entering the possibility that there have been violations of international humanitarian law whether, however, the vast majority of patriots and people who fought during NATO aggression and during the terrorist attacks in Kosovo and Metohija can be led under that definition -- that they are members of organised crime and that they are identified with those who have cut into cigarette smuggling, money laundering and other high-end crime jobs; whether there can be any sign of equality between them at all. This bill, since it has been announced for the past two months, shows that the proposal intended to inaugurate powers through the special prosecutor's law in the fight against organised crime; however, because of the otium of the public and the reaction of the experts, since the initial proposals had quite adept in the domain of human rights violations, such as the proverbial grandmother, who has given the groat to get into the wheel, and now gives three to come out, has given up the original idea and since he has already stood up quite a bit to the public, suggests to us here in the National Assembly something that is diametrically contrary to the essence, offering a system of replacement for something that will deal with organisation, rather than essentially solving problems. I guess, and probably because the public can't go back now, and when everything is adopted with great promotion through public information funds, part of the public will, of course, think that some anti-mafian law has been passed, while the smaller part, including all of us here, of course, also those following assembly meetings, will understand that, instead of a law which sets out jurisdiction, powers and practices in the fight against organised crime, only a law has been adopted that defines the organisational units that should participate in this fight, and those organisational units should be given this termological tightening in public opinion. As for the proposal for a law on a security-intelligence agency, the very abbreviations for a security-intelligence agency is BIA, and it probably needs to be associated, given that we allegedly entered the democratic world, into the CIA, so we should eventually have CIA instructors; or maybe it's a shortcut from that -- and I would, or -- so would I; so if the promoter, then we socialists would really like some effective security service, but of course not like this and not with such dynamics. Why? It is logical to first adopt amendments and to comply with the constitutions and other relevant laws, as well as with international conventions, based on some strategy and concepts, which we unfortunately have not seen for two years; only then can possible organisational solutions be conceived and changes in the organisational structures of the MUP and Government. As a result, there is the impression that the proposal prejudges changes in the Constitution and relevant laws or, if not, the co-insistence on accepting this proposal, before its alignment with the legal documents, in the function of what I said earlier; therefore, political marketing and unnecessary reconciliation of the public, the the thesis that this proposal, without other changes, will receive a solution that will be more progressive than the existing one. As regards the objections to this draft law, Article 17, it explicitly defines that, at the request of the Assembly and the Government, the Director of the Agency is obliged to submit a report. Of course, as far as the government is concerned, it is clear to whom the report will be delivered, but as far as the Assembly is concerned, it is necessary to specify who it will really be delivered to. So, to whom in the assembly, the President, the Committee on Security, MPs, or anyone else, we need to know first of all whether the majority will even require that such a report be submitted. As regards Article 25(3), the answer should be how, when and to which the Government will settle the issue, since it is only talking about the closer regulation of issues relating to the disciplinary responsibility of agency members. It can be disputed about the reasons for the adoption of this law; if we comment on the claim in the third position that greater efficiency and legality in the performance of these tasks can be ensured by the establishment of a special state body, then why this could not be done by upgrading existing legal rules. Also, it is said that there is a need to provide additional funding, and we have already voted in the budget, agreed on everything required to function for the Ministry of the Interior, and behind this came proposals for a law on the transformation of the Ministry of the Interior, and as a result we need additional funds again for a special service to combat organised crime. Now, of course, for the agency, and who knows what else it's gonna take. Is it rational to increase costs, whether it was necessary at any cost to reach for solutions that meant so-called. Reforming the MUP, rather than making changes in the organisational structure and in this respect with regard to the corresponding reduction; I hope that the mistrust between the prime minister and the interior minister will not affect the re-increase of the budgetary resources to be spent on the functioning of the MUP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23843	The word has the People's MP Pal Shandor, the DOS parliamentary group, and the next reported for the word is MP Toma Busetic, the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23844	Dear colleagues, let me say immediately that I am not an expert on this area, but as a citizen and an MP, I feel the need to say something about these problems, a team that, after a long time now, is now the first time the Assembly has considered such proposals. What generally asked me to say something about these legal proposals is that I don't think civilian control has been provided to a sufficient extent, or that civilian control has actually been formulated quite, in fact, in a vague way. I prefer that both in one law and in another, we know exactly who is responsible for whom and how these mechanisms work. This Article 5 says that a special prosecutor is only subordinated to the Republic Public Prosecutor. There is one proposal that is very close to me, and this group from DOS, to be subordinated to the National Assembly that appoints it, etc. We don't even know if he's going to file a report to anyone, when, in what time spaces, whether he has the right to refuse, what he's going to do; it might seem pointless when we're in a position to keep an eye on information firsthand. What happens when we are eventually the opposition tomorrow. How are we going to control the same government, and we know very well what our public prosecutors and our entire service have been doing for the past 10 years, and someone over the past 20 and 30 years. So I think it has to be said how it works. If he remains this way that he is subordinated, only to the Republic Public Prosecutor, then the reports made available to him to the Assembly to consider or to be delivered to the congregation or to someone else. If we ask, possibly from the Assembly, or the Public Prosecutor, he has the right to refuse. Therefore, the mechanisms of control, which are not in this law, I think we should determine very precisely. It's the same with the information agency law. It says in Article 5 -- the agency's work is run by the director, who is appointed and resolved by the government. I have to say that I don't like that he's not responsible for the police minister, which means that there can be some certainty between them; that means that the minister of the police and the director of the agency can work the opposite of each other, which means that between the two services, as we often have in life, there can be a game, mutual impatience, etc. I mean, I also think that the idea that the director is hardly accountable to anyone, that he is responsible to the government as a whole, especially when governments are coalitions, when we have to keep an eye on which party he or she will be close to, that this solution is not good. Who's going to knock him down; how is he going to ask that director questions; who's going to control him? The government, great. We must have someone else as the MPs we must control. Therefore, it is much more logical for me, if it is necessary for this service to be separated, that it be subordinated to the Minister of the Interior of the day or, please, to be told to another minister. But the government cannot be generally responsible for the work of that service, and that means everyone and nobody. In order to take the exam and bring down the director of the agency, we have to shoot down the Prime Minister. Maybe we won't shoot down the Prime Minister because the agency in question isn't doing well. In Article 17, he says, "At the request of the National Assembly and the Government, the director of the agency is required to submit a report." This is even worse than what Mr. Seselj said. He said -- at the government's request; and it's not said -- or the National Assembly; but, if I understand what's written well, at the request of the government and the National Assembly, which will say that these two demands must be brought together. When will that happen, please, in practice? I mean almost never. So, it says here -- it means at the request of the Assembly and the Government, so the Assembly will look for it, and the Government will confirm it, and then the director will file it, too. I would prefer it to say "at the request of the National Assembly or, say, Government", or write only on the request of the National Assembly that he must submit a report; and when, I would like him to write here at least once a year. If these are the things that are important for the security of the state, for all citizens, I think it should say in law that he submits the report according to automation once a year, as the government reports on its work once a year after automation; as we adopt the budget for next year, so he sometimes has to report to someone in some time frames. This is how we'll get into a situation where the director of the agency never submits a report to anyone and constantly avoids that kind of responsibility. I realize it's in the nature of the Secret Service not to report to anyone, but I guess we're going towards when civil society wants to control it. But how? In a very well-established way. When's the chance to do that? I mean, now. Therefore, we should say that he is obliged to submit a report at least once a year. As for further questions, the 19th article said that some persons "participate in controlling the Agency's work". What are those faces? At least I can't see from the law, and maybe that's clear to someone. I don't think some people, some citizens on behalf of us who have delegated or not, can participate in the control of the agencies, and I think it has to be one who has political legality and legitimacy, which is something that reflects the composition of the Assembly or something like that. Thus, the entire ministry will be left alone and alienated if they are on our behalf, not asking us, controlled by some faces. I think that's a bad solution. Or, it says in Article 24: "The disciplinary action against members of the Agency excludes the public". I realize that sometimes it's necessary; but does it have to be a rule? I think it should be the other way around, that, as a rule, that this process is public, and that the exclusion can be excluded from the public. But setting up a rule that for those against whom discipline is being initiated and who have been doing illegal guarantees that it will be secret, I don't think it's a good logic. So every process is public, and sometimes, when there's an interest in the state, when someone assesses it and so on, then the public can shut down. I think that should change a little too. Or, he says, "A member of the Agency proves his property by official identification." And when? When he arrests someone, when he executes them, before he arrests them during that procedure, when he arrests the man he arrests, puts them in the car and so on; when? He comes to a man and says, "We took you, and whoever took him doesn't know." I'm asking-- when does he prove it? We have to say -- if you're dealing with people who are from this agency, when they are finally, at the last minute, obliged to introduce themselves -- so we're you; that you know, that you don't think it's someone else. Article 11 speaks of the fact that the Agency will take over the files, and this is spoken by transitional and final provisions (i.e. Article 27).). It's a very important thing. Please, this vacuum could be about destroying the file, I think. The files are a terrible thing. I'll tell you one more anecdote thing from 1812; I've had a chance to read reports from police informants "a-a", "b-b", "c-c", "z-z" and "y-y" from a theatre performance: "Black Georgia or Belgrade's ottium from Turks". If it hadn't been for spies, if it hadn't been for the service, there wouldn't have been any first Serbian theatre criticism. The files, please, are a terrible thing and should be kept. But there's no need to allow manipulation. Danilo Kish wrote in several places that the files and security services in Eastern Europe are the best source of the 20th century literary building. Therefore, a man must take it seriously. In these criteria of taking over people doesn't say anything at all, or at least I don't see, what is the criterion, will all those in the service of the party state be taken over? It is an opportunity to make a lustration now, in a nice way, and for those who have been really thirty years in the service of the party state to be left out; but we do not know what the criteria are. Those criteria should be public if we know who they are. What, those who have been following us for ten years, will return to the ministry, listening to and writing reports, and it does not say in the law that they will not. I like to know what the criteria are going to be. Says here he'll take over at the Agency. I'm asking-- how are they gonna take over, based on what? And especially this, archives and other registrant material, etc. - it's a very serious thing to me, because it's going to be an opportunity, when we come to a more serious story, to see which of these worlds that participate in public life was a direct associate of these services, and at what time? I think that's what's waiting for us to open that story. So I tried to point out just for a few moments, that we need to ensure greater control possibilities in both law and regulation. If we don't do this, then these services will work by initiative and then the control of the political structures of the day, or whoever is in power, will get out of control. There are no details in the law, and I'd like that, possibly, if possible, to work this way. One piece was proposed by my colleagues in the amendments, and I'm very inclined to, for example. be responsible to the National Assembly, that the National Assembly has these possibilities of questioning, but I really think that here it is necessary to be very precise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23845	The word has been made by MP Toma Busetic, the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23846	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are deeply convinced that the bill of these laws will mean nothing essential, advanced, prosperous. Simply, this is just one marketing move, one propaganda move from the government of the Republic of Serbia. Given that crime has grown to unprecedented proportions in the past two years, the government needed one such law, in order to allegedly convince or convince citizens that the government is doing everything in its power to combat organised crime. The adoption of these laws will hardly reduce tobacco smuggling, drugs, and murders, robberies, which are everyday. DOS champions, Minister Dusan Mihajlovic and Minister Zivkovic, speak months ago about the fact that the mafia does not exist, that the mafia has been defeated. If that were the case, then simply this law wouldn't be necessary. But the truth is completely different. Mafia and organized crime are bigger than ever, but in this bill, there are no provisions and authorized acts in the fight against the mafia. This small-door law also introduces the possibility that special services, meaning both the special prosecutor and this crime-restriction service, are authorized primarily for the purposes of the Hague tribunal, which is unacceptable because in the same way, defenders of the freedoms of these Serbian spaces and criminals, who have lagged into the smuggling of tobacco, drugs and everything else. It is very important, the Prime Minister here spoke of the fact that this law was also modelled by the laws of the European Union, by the laws of the United States, I would like to remind myself, which I am sure Minister Mihajlovic, as a longtime politician, but also the respected Professor Vojislav Seselj, very well know that even the best legal sites do not mean if there is no work. It's the best example of France. Only a few years ago, the foreign minister (if I didn't speak his name, I think at least these MPs know) was convicted of a major corruption affair. Similarly happened with NATO Secretary General of the Pact, who was before Javier Solana, Willy Klass. Furthermore, we are talking about good laws in Italy - so in Italy, all European presses were written by Giulio Andreotti, who had been Minister or Prime Minister eleven times, was the top of the "Koza Nostra". If I have to, I'll tell you all the names. Please, there was a similar situation in Germany, and I'm saying it all for the reasons that all those laws, which were passed in Western Europe, don't mean much. I'm sorry the Prime Minister isn't here. One high-ranking official of Schroeder's party was having a major affair in time, so a Bundestag investigation was launched, all the newspapers were written in 1999; and then, Shredder sent him on high duty, into an organization we were celebrating, how this organization would help us. It is the Stability Pact of South-Eastern Europe; so we even passed laws, we say, the Pact for South-Eastern Europe proposes, and the high-ranking official of the pact was a man who was involved in a major corruption affair, according to the German and the entire European press. So I'm saying -- we don't have to rely much on these, supposedly good, laws from the West, because simply, the West mostly brings it to us. We don't get from the West economic development, some money that's promised, but organized crime and the Mafia, it comes to a big door from the West to us. Of course, that was all, and it all happened in the countries of Eastern Europe, in the countries of transition. Here, Minister Mihajlovic is present here, my colleagues have talked about it all the time he talked about knowing who the most important mob bosses in Serbia are, but the most important reason why they are not in prison, he says - there is no evidence. At least you have some experience after October 5th, when many socialists are put in jail independent of evidence and do the same with these. Put them in jail, so let the evidence be sought, or let them prove that they are innocent, and that would be a better solution. I'm not going to amnesty my own party, there have been big thugs in our ranks, but criminal charges have been earned mostly by the innocent or by some who have been quite petty, and they still enjoy the most or are now in DOS. Minister Mihajlovic spoke about the fact that the MUP is not an instrument of The Hague tribunal. That is simply not true and let's just remember the extradition of President Slobodan Milosevic, the Banovic brothers, Stakic. It is incorrect from Minister Mihajlovic to talk about the criminal past of government over the past ten years. Mihajlovic was in the government for four years and it is not correct, it is not fair and it is not good. On the other hand, it is extremely rude and of some who were with us yesterday, they are talking about some crime in Serbia today, and their bosses are the richest in Serbia. I mean the lady who spoke two hours ago. In the end, when it comes to this second law, when we talk about this agency, I think it's a failure, because the agency is in the ranks of the ministry, and it only corresponds mainly to the Prime Minister. Parliament has no control over the agency and the agency is above the ministry, which is somewhat illogical. It is clear that, regardless of our good intentions, it is hardly possible to accept such a bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23847	The word has been made by MP Dragan Sutanovac, and the next one registered for the word is MP Bora Stanimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23848	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, Mr. Minister, this kind of eloquent speech of my predecessor has rarely been heard in a building like this. If there's no state that doesn't have a mob, this is where the mob had a state. Is there a government where the prime minister has an account abroad and does not know that he has an account abroad, that there are a million and a change of marks or euros in that account without knowing who was paying him. Is that your party chief, deputy boss, assistant boss or I don't know which segment of your party already? The second segment of your party is Mr. Bane Ivkovic, also criminally accused, and we have removed his immunity on these criminal charges. He'll be tried in a package, along with a few other people from your party. What all well-intentioned people can see and have the opportunity for the first time on Serbia's MUP website, it's a report on the work of the interior ministry for the past six months. Gentlemen, you're all written enough and that's no problem for you to see that the results are better than in many Western European countries. Over 50% of cigarettes on the market have been taxed for the first time and it has not been for the past ten years. The mob that deals with the shoplifting of stolen vehicles has been suppressed and more than 40% have been reduced in stolen vehicles. Piratery has been contained, although it is a large segment of organised crime, only in a few actions. To a large extent, the drug path that leads across our country is closed, even though it is a civilization problem throughout the world. Four hundred billion dollars a year turns around drugs all over the world. Don't think that only the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Serbia or the Federal Ministry, as you mentioned, has the problem. These are all the problems that are affecting the whole modern world. The problem with our country is that over the past ten years we haven't had any contact with Western Europe, we haven't had the Authority to fight organised crime, we haven't been in the Interpol system and we haven't been able to respond adequately to organised crime. The fact that it doesn't work out for you, which you just said, that crime has grown over the past two years, doesn't stand. If you compare the reports from last year and last year, as well as the reports for the first six months of this year and last year, you will see that crime is in significant decline. Unfortunately, we have a crime problem. All the segments I listed earlier fall into organized crime. With a budget of 700 million marks, the Home Office is really doing everything it can. I'll tell you that the budget of the U.K. Department of Interior is £9 billion, which means 27 billion. With the means and the technique that they have, it's not to tell you how many times more funds they spend on curbing organized crime, and only 5% of the narcotics that come to Great Britain, which is an island country, are able to confiscate. You understand to what extent this crime is organized. The Federal Republic of Yugoslavia signed the Convention against Transnational Organized Crime in November 2000. We are one of the countries that signed and supported this convention and have practically taken over certain obligations, such as the state of Yugoslavia and as Serbia, its republic. The Department for Combating Organized Crime of the Ministry of the Interior was formed last year; so, practically ten years ago, war years, when guns were traded like gum here, such a administration did not exist. The results of that administration over the past six months are, believe me, more than positive. There's no problem, Mr. Bushettic, I'm telling you, I know you can't access the Internet, so you have a problem reading that, and I'm going to tell you this very simply now. However, in order to definitely create a legal framework for the functioning of people involved in the fight against organised crime, we need to support such a law that systematically gives legal framework to the organisation and jurisdiction of state authorities in the fight against organised crime. I wouldn't call this the law on fighting organized crime, but I'd say about fighting, because it's really an angry fight. Not wanting to waste your time, just to tell you that Serbian citizens expect the Ministry and all of us to engage in the fight against organised crime. And what you must know, both you and the citizens of Serbia, is that the law itself cannot fight organised crime, nor can only members of the ministry. If we as citizens and as MPs do not participate in this fight, we have lost the fight. If you think that in any segment of losing the fight against organised crime, only the minister or the ministry loses, you're wrong. Sooner or later, all of us, including you, will hang up a segment of organized crime. Whether someone is going to offer your child drugs at school or someone is going to steal your car, you might think it's none of your business and at the moment it's not important for your party, but trust me on the state of Serbia and for the citizens of Serbia that's very important. I call upon everyone to support this law. We're going to have a debate on amendments and we're going to see how the debate goes, but this is a fundamental issue, to create a legal framework to fight organised crime.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23849	Right on line, MP Cedomir Jovanovic. The Republic was challenged by MP Toma Busetic, mentioning the DOS parliamentary group twice. You can look at the stenographic notes.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23850	Ms. Micic, the Honorable Presidency, members of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party of Serbia, I will use my right to make a second announcement when the debate is over in principle, but I am forced to ask Mr. Busetic, as a national MP, to ask us as representatives of Serbian citizens by name and by name to introduce these large fish that democratic authority today protects us. Give us the name and last name of the people you mentioned here or never again go out for this congregation pay phone. After the adoption of the law on the organisation and jurisdiction of the state authorities in the prevention of organised crime, you will be obliged to do so under Article 10(3), which says that without delay you must hand over any written or other evidence that you possess or otherwise have information that can help shed light on criminal offences. So here you have accused an entire system of protecting high-ranking officials, current or former, from the SPS. Please tell us who these people are. Make it easier for the police and the citizens of Serbia. First of all, without any hesitation, say who's protecting them.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23851	Replica, MP Zarko Obradovic, at the presentation of MP Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23852	Don't get nervous. Today, if you listened carefully during the morning work of the National Assembly, you heard a good lesson: do not use hard words and speak them lightly. Whoever is ready to go out for this pay phone and tell the National Assembly and the People's Messengers what he has, then let him do it better than speak from the bench. I must say, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, on behalf of these words spoken to Mr Mirko Marjanovic, that if it is of good faith that in the media, because there is absolute censorship of the emergence of information, what the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia have sent to the Swiss authorities and what has arrived from Switzerland, you will see that the truth is completely different from what is being placed here. Another thing, don't worry so much about us socialists, let the state authorities do their job. Don't be here as MPs and representatives of the legislative authority to give us advance judgments on something that needs to be done by a completely different authority and completely autonomous. The evidence should be a final and final criterion for each of us. That's the only way Serbia has a future. The third thing, when we talked about organized crime, we could hear and see through the media, and later we can read a report from the MUP where they know exactly who, what, how, and who is the perpetrator of the appropriate criminal act of violence, stealing motor vehicles, trafficking in white slaves, economic crime. The question is, if you know all this and you know who did it, why don't you do something about it? And if it's not taken, then why is this law passed without content? The point of the whole story is this: no one smart will refuse to talk and fight crime, but with a valid law that has content, which is not part of any party's pre-election marketing. We Socialists stand at our disposal, like all other citizens of Serbia; there is one basic principle: anyone who does something against the law should be punished, and the state should control all state authorities and they should not exercise violence on behalf of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23853	Replica, MP Cedomir Jovanovic, at the presentation of MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23854	Mrs. Micic, a respected presidency, government counterparts, ladies and gentlemen of the people's MPs, are very clear during today's presentation and the Prime Minister, and the minister of justice and interior ministers have pointed out the facts available by the executive authorities and the problems these executives face. In the last year, 97 drug dealers have been arrested in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Of those 97, 7 of them were punished criminally; of those seven, they were three prison sentences, and four of them were paroled. Given the police knowledge and knowledge on the basis of which the police are operating, we expect them to win the fight they're fighting. But to come to a good result, we need the help of all, both judicial and legislative authorities. The legislative authority is helping since it adopts laws that are instruments for a more effective fight against organised crime. Individual MPs can help if they share their knowledge with the police. So, Mr. Bushetić, once again, I ask you, who are these big fish from the SPS that someone is protecting in this country, who have committed serious crimes. Share that knowledge with parliament and with the minister of police, so we'll check and see if we protect them or not, very quickly.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23855	Replica, MP Tom Bushetic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23856	You know, over the past year and a half, things have been written in this Dossov paper. Which turned out to be true, a little bit of stuff. It's this one, it's the one, the blames have been attributed, so many billions have been stolen, and in the end, what turned out to be, who was convicted, no one. It means that the truth has very little, very little. Secondly, when it comes to Branislav Ivkovic, the president of the Security Committee mentioned him earlier. Be careful if you listened to Vida Petrovic Škero, three weeks ago on BK TV; she talked about the minister's pressures and said how to solve Banet Ivkovic's problem. She told the whole process. When it was supposed to go into the process, there was an extension of the indictment, and fact-finding means a new seizure of immunity, extension and putting it in the drawer. That's it. About great events; what was in customs. I don't know the name of the guy who got into customs. Zumunović? What about him? About the name, I don't want to talk about names, nor did the minister say who 50 mobsters are holding this Serbia. Let him say it. I'll say something else. You know who in our ranks are those who have halls, factories, you don't know how many houses, bars, apartments. He's got them. They've got a lot of things, not just in the SPS and in the JUL. I won't say a single name, but you know who they are, because someone's talking about them. So, just take what he owns. They're not millions of marks, they're 10 and 100 million, and nobody touches them. Some small, damaged SPS, etc. are being touched. That's bullshit. One more thing: there is no legal solution to organised crime. There isn't. Everywhere there's a two-layer society, where we have 5% too rich and 70% of those starving, there'll be crime. So we have to strive, and then you have to strive as a government, that 60-70% of the people in Serbia live roughly and solidly. There was no crime in the '80s. Is that right? It wasn't. I agree that Tito made big mistakes, wronged the Serbian people, and I have no dilemma there. There was no organized crime at the time. He was gone. Criminally organized comes from the West. When did the criminals get here? In '92, and in 1993 when the wars began.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23857	Replica, MP Dragan Sutanovac. Please follow the session, MP Toma Busetic has now come out on a replica caused by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, because he did not want to use the replica when MP Sutanovac mentioned him, but the MP, Zarko Obradovic, came out. And that's the end of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23858	Please, look, Mr. Bushettic, you have a protected witness institute on this bill. So if you don't think you can say what big fish they are, as you say from JUL and SPS, you'll be able to say through the Witness Protection Institute what kind of fish or at least the number of party cards they have. I urge you to say, if not for us here, then after the adoption of this law, which are the "big fish" that protects DOS, which they stole in the previous period.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23859	The word has a National MP, Bora Stanimirovic, and the next one registered for the word is MP Ljubisa Kesic. National MP Ljubisa Kesic gave up. Then the next MP is Sima Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23860	Dear Mrs. Micic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable members of the Government, I think it's good to lower our tone. It is unnecessary, I have the impression that we are passing this law for 250 MPs, I guess we are bringing for Serbia and for everyone else. So, don't do that, let's do that. I suggest, if you'll excuse me, I'm talking about this first law on organized crime. If you read this law carefully, you will see that there is no valid reason for its adoption. I would not agree with a previous colleague who claimed that the SPS is against the adoption of corruption laws, or organised crime. No, we are against such a text that is not comprehensive, which has no good reason, where the right methodology for adopting such a law, which does not have its structure and strategy, has not been applied. That's why we're against, not what you're saying, that we're afraid. Let's settle this, bring the right law. Don't let us MPs, especially the opposition, do some of Sisif's work. The government is proposing three laws per emergency procedure, withdrawing two. We write the amendments, we study the laws, we prepare for the session, and when we get to the session, what? Did we adopt the Law on Local Elections a month and a half ago? That's when we pointed out, there were seven amendments that talked about the election. (Glass from the O.R.: It's not on the agenda.) ) On the agenda, there is a law on the agenda to be changed in a month and a half. Therefore, this law does not solve anything. That's what Sisif's job is. You know that Sisif was an ancient king whom, according to legend, the gods condemned to push that stone back again; we bring amendments every day, and you push those laws back. If you look at the name of this law, and it says -- the bill on the organisation and jurisdiction of the state authorities in countering organised crime -- and if you take that in Article 2 point 1) says "against constitutional arrangement or security of the SRJ", then this law should be directed to the federal parliament rather than to the republic, because nothing is being resolved at this level of state. Second, what's going on with this law? Nothing at all. We haven't resolved those basic issues, except there's a special prosecutor's office. He could have been a state prosecutor, given that Mr Batic, who I see agrees with that, is proposing to Serbia as a sovereign state, then the real name would have been the state prosecutor. That's the thing. Then, if you look at these other services, what we form - a special department. In some Western countries, there is mostly a federal court, there is a federal prosecutor who has jurisdiction in the entire territory of a country, regardless of whether there are 50 states, three or two, as is the case with us, as Serbia-Montenegro will be called. This name, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, is likely to change very quickly, and that is why it should not be accepted. Furthermore, it is predicted that, let's say, the authorities over this have the District Court in Belgrade. What about the other county courts? What about the District Court in Nis, does it exist? What about the District Court in Novi Sad? What about the District Court in Kragujevac? So these are second row courts? We need to form a judicial service, whether it's called a special or federal department, it will be responsible for the territory of the entire Republic and above all these other courts. What is also important, someone said today that a special prosecutor, who is special only by his name, Mr. Jovanovic, will be independent. How he'll be a special prosecutor independent if he's appointed by a republican public prosecutor and paid by a republican government. He will normally work for the government, as he is in all states. Why don't we suggest that this special prosecutor be elected by parliament and that parliament responds? Why are we running away from that? It can't work, you'll see, it'll show practice. After all, we have proved on one dozen laws that we were right when the amendment was proposed. I repeat again, we do not criticise the law, we are not against such a law, and we would certainly vote for it if it were to solve this in some other way. Next, it's solved so much based on these twenty members. There's so much confusion, there's so much intertwining in that hierarchy, even criminals themselves won't be able to cope, and they're usually high-priced people. Which is the hardest thing, which you probably haven't noticed, we appoint a special prosecutor for two years. Why two? Article 16 asks him to keep secrets. What secrets, if we keep picking prosecutors for two years, it's like they're some municipal sheriffs. Maybe he can, because now we're freeing the former president of the SRJ of state secrets, and so can that sheriff. Article 7 is even more interesting: "Republic Public Prosecutor may, on a proposal from the Special Prosecutor, refer to the Special Prosecutor's Office"... and other faces at nine months. I would understand that if, say, it were a woman, so for nine months, it's known how long she can work, but I don't understand that for nine months you're telling people to do one of these responsible jobs. It's not about arresting, arrest whoever you want. Then take the third piece of article 15. - property records. This is where we take care of the property of a person who will work in that service, not the criminals we'll catch. Let's just say, there's a special department or a special prison in, I guess, Belgrade County Prison, and you can't see how we're gonna get to those prisoners, these criminals. It is likely that Minister Mihajlovic will use a variety of pedagogical measures to convince them that they themselves will enter the prison and we will just close the door. Well, maybe those from Belgrade will come, but from the inside, that's already on. Ladies and gentlemen, I have read this law well, but it simply cannot change with amendments and various changes, and so I suggest that a more serious law on criminal prosecution and against organised crime, so that we can practically function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23861	The word has a People's MP Sima Radulovic, the DOS parliamentary group, and the next reported MP, Đura Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23862	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, during my legal career, I have always been in a position to apply regulations, and also very often to see their weaknesses, not theoretically but very concretely, in relation to very specific people, perpetrators and perpetrators of criminal acts. Now, when I'm in the position of someone who participates in the process of making those regulations, that experience allows me to observe the laws in that light as well. Years ago, I defended some of the big group's participants who committed a very large number of heavy thefts. The group was the average age of 18 to 22. On their target were vehicles that had been harvested and out of them all that was in them or could have been disarmed. The group was highly organized, with clearly divided roles, even with certain ritual actions in mutual communication. Of course they were all passive film lovers about the mob and their heroes, and let's just wonder if theirs was the people on the other side of the law. Why did I begin my presentation on the draft law on the organisation and jurisdiction of the state authorities in countering organised crime with this story? Because I think she's very characteristic. Let's start with what this law wants first. The name itself indicates that it wants a new organisation and establishment of the authority of state authorities with the aim of curbing organised crime. The first question, already asked here, is whether there is organised crime in Serbia. Organized crime is, as you could conclude from this little story at the beginning of my exposure, either, there is and unfortunately to some extent it will continue to be. Of course, young perpetrators from the beginning of this story have moved on to more serious things, and I wouldn’t be surprised if some of them were at the very tops of organized crime. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not the weakness of this government or this government that there is organised crime in Serbia. The causes of this phenomenon are very complex and, as some previous speakers have pointed out, they go back a long way. This government and the government would show weakness if they did not express their readiness to fight organised crime. Opportunism would be if now, from this place, we say -- well, we already have laws that allow the fight against organised crime. It just takes a little bit better to apply them both here and there. It would be fairest to say that what we have available from the legal means and what we are doing in that fight is not enough. There is no tie between organised crime and the state. The winner can only be one. Ladies and gentlemen, in this bill of law, I see the first necessary step, the first preparatory action in the fight against organised crime. The bill itself, of course, has some weaknesses, but from the amendments submitted and from the report of the committees in charge, I conclude that these weaknesses may be mitigated. First of all, I am referring to the more precise formulation of the very term organized crime, as well as to the more precise determination of the circle of criminal acts that are the subject of this law. I am also of the opinion that it is necessary to highlight the exclusive nature of the special prosecutor, above all clear determination of the moment when he enters the proceedings. If he's special, then I think it should be his initiative. Here, as with the work of the Organisational Crime Prevention Service, there should be some other regulations to clearly see the entire legal strategy of this government in the fight against organised crime. It is certainly commendable that the motionor did not engage in and regulate the criminal proceedings, because it is clear - under the Constitution it is not competent. However, it should be made clear by now - there is no civil union and cannot be justified and unjust violation of human rights. It's one thing we can't negotiate about. It is possible to go to some of the measures that are at the very edge of harming one of the human or the Constitution of guaranteed rights. And in the proposal for this second law, on the security-intelligence agency, we have a good example. Of course, I mean members from 13 to 15. So a little more attention, a little more expertise and a little more respect for the absolute ban on human rights violations can lead us to the right goal. In the end, both law and law are very important: to avoid arbitration as much as possible. So the more things to settle with the law. This is not why we're astounding as we're part of the so-called party. legalist parties, and so understood legalism, unfortunately even in this House in a very primitive way. That's not why. Because of one other thing. We think that until the law has been passed on as much lustration as possible in all areas of our society, this should be clear, precise, law-ordered, that is, to be regulated by a number of things; this is the only way to avoid abuse. I'd like to say a few more things about the safety and information agency law. We believe that his greatest weakness is contained in chapter 4 that speaks of labour control. However, as in the previous case, the amendments submitted show that there is a need to wait for the outcome of the debate in particular, as many of these submitted amendments are heading in that direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23863	The word has the People's MP Đura Lazic, and the following is the registered MP Joca Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23864	Dear Presidency, honourable Members of the People, gentlemen of Ministers, I will try to give some of my principled views on the proposed law. I can say that any government, regardless of which party is in power in this country, should and must fight organised crime, against mob groups, to suppress all negative phenomena in society, if we want the state to function normally and if we want all citizens to feel safe. However, this bill is absolutely unnecessary for the following reasons: firstly, our state, this assembly, and earlier, has passed many laws that are in force, and Criminal Law and Code on Criminal Procedure, the Law on Ministrys, the Law on the Ministry and the like, the Law on Courts, where the obligations of all workers or holders of these functions are clearly specified in the performance of their affairs. Therefore, members of the law sanctioning these crimes are also foreseen. From the Minister and from some colleagues, we heard today that our country, that is, our Ministry, our Ministry of Security, members of the MUP, recorded growth in preventing certain criminal activities, in detecting and cutting channels of drug trafficking, tobacco and so on. And by what laws? By the laws that are in force. Therefore, existing laws are no obstacle to more active, more up-to-date involvement of relevant authorities in the repression of organised crime and so on. With this bill, it is my opinion, the government recognises its inability to deal with criminal groups, and judicial authorities, prosecutors, judges, police, etc. are devalued. In my opinion, it is not true that our bodies are not capable of dealing with organised crime holders, only those organs should not be hampered, but allow them to work in accordance with existing laws. I would refer to one part of the reasoning in the final decree, i.e. on the reasons for the adoption of this law, and where it is also said to be adopted under the Law on Confirmation of the European Convention on the Restraint of Terrorism, then the Law on Co-operation with the International Tribunal for the Drive of Persons responsible for the serious violations of international humanitarian law committed in the territory of the former SFRY since 1991 and so on. Among the acts to be sanctioned and the proposed law in Article 2 does not mention the crime of terrorism, and I wonder why? Probably because it is a shame for Vladusota to re-enter the term "terrorism" when at the federal level, parliament passed a law on amnesty of terrorists from responsibility in southern Serbia. While I am here, Interior Minister Dusan Mihajlovic said that these conflicts are in southern Serbia, it is thought of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedju, this authority inherited, so I would remind you, both Mr. Minister and our public that these conflicts are so-called. The Presevo Liberation Army, Bujanovac and Medvedje, a terrorist organisation, launched an attack on the Serb police checkpoint in Koncul on 21 November 2000; it means, when the Socialists and the radicals were in power. Since then, probably these terrorists encouraged their sponsors and helpers, foreign mentors, have launched a broad action against the military and our police. A lot of cops died by these terrorists, a lot of soldiers, a lot of people were hurt not to pick up. Instead of these terrorists being prosecuted, they amnesty by passing a special law in the Federal Assembly. So that's the truth about that part, and it took several months, it seems to me about half a year for the new government to deal with the problem, by calming down these conflicts in southern Serbia, and that activity has gained full publicity on the media. I agree with that, and everything that leads to peace should give publicity, however, in giving publicity to this shadow activity has been a major prank on Serbia, making the constitutional framework of Hans Hekerup for Kosovo, so that in this context the term "Methohija" has been deleted; Serbia has neither "S" nor "J" from Yugoslavia. It's an insidious game of the international community that we've settled on and now it's coming back to us as a boomerang what we once rejected in this assembly by not accepting those frameworks, and later breaking it by calling these people to elections; I think we've done a bear service to ourselves and to our people. Mr. Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic said, among other things, that since there are elements of organised crime, the laws should be tightened because they are mild and inadequate. Well, the law needs to be sharpened, and every normal man will be in order for criminals and those who deal with murky and dirty work to be severely sanctioned. But I was amazed by Mr. Prime Minister's statement when he said we'd be building new prisons in Serbia. At times when enterprises around Serbia are shut down, when production falls, when workers are fired, we will appear to be building prisons, and you close will turn out to be the new Goli Island in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23865	The word has been given by MP Joca Arsic and is the last registered speaker, and the time of the SPS parliamentary group is four minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23866	Dear fellow Members and fellow MPs, Mrs Comic, allow me to say only a few objections to the proposed text of the law within the time set by the SPS parliamentary group. Many objections are made to the text of two legal projects, both laws. I'm just going to say something that my colleagues haven't arrived or haven't noticed to say, which is, when it comes to this bill, which is completely introducing new qualifications, i.e.. Article 2 is intended to be tried against humanity and international law and is the only member of the law for which no justification is given in the part where the need for the adoption of this law is explained. In other words, we will also have the authority to conduct proceedings on the basis of Hague charges and against Hague indictees and thus to open up this possibility of processing in our practice. Furthermore, this is about a special prosecutor and the need for a special prosecutor to be appointed by a public prosecutor, and for the district attorney to prescribe the organisation and work of this special prosecutor. Then, the special prosecutor asks that, with the agreement of the minister, the interior ministry services be formed to co-operate with the special prosecutor. A special prosecutor can hire a public prosecutor, it is not said which, where, for a period of nine months, my colleague Bora Stanimirovic explained the need for the nine-month period not to be that big. There's no word from the deputy public prosecutor or any special prosecutor. This is about a special public prosecutor, who is special to the extent that he is given the department and the possibility, the service, means pure logistics; there is no further talk of the need for special, way of working and functioning on the basis of the laws in force. The minister here said that the laws are good and that criminal measures are foreseen, that they are in accordance with European laws, but that they are not applied, but that the criminal policies that are below these criteria laid down by the law and where the lower and upper limits of the law are provided; they are generally imposed on the penalties below. That doesn't require a special law, that doesn't require a special prosecutor, that doesn't require special departments. For this, criminal policy should be applied in accordance with laws that are valid and those laws should be followed consistently and to the end, and that is the essence of the whole story. There is no need to engage certain special services, or any special powers, as provided for in this draft law. And normally, the Socialists have nothing to do with fighting organised crime, especially when it comes to the mafia, when it comes to drugs; that's for sure what's in the Criminal Law to be changed, and that punishments are sharpened and maximum penalties are imposed, because that's the greatest social danger. That's where we completely agree, because there's a source of funding for every other mafia. In the end, the prime minister said that the new New Deal will begin next year, the Serbian "Her Dill", by making at least a few prisons for the purposes of houseing prisoners, because our estimate of 1% of the population in other countries is well below that average; if it is taken to make seven million full-time residents live in this country, it means that we need some accommodation for at least 70,000 prisoners. Normally, our prison facilities aren't that big and we should work in that sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23867	The word is from MP Sinisa Mitrovic, deputy president of the DOS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23868	Dear fellow Members of Parliament, since it is a high date in the month and we have these obligations that are parliamentary, I propose that today, on the basis of Articles 81 and 137. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, let us extend the debate on the Security and Information Agency Act in particular to discuss amendments to this law for three minutes. I suggest that the Parliament be heard about this. For your information, we have about 27 amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23869	National MP Sinisa Mitrovic has tabled two proposals -- the first proposal refers to an extension of working time. It means we're working until the debate is over in detail on the proposal for a law on a security-information agency. I ask the Members of Parliament to make a statement about this proposal. For 98, against 39, the abstentions were not voted 20 out of 157 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal to work until the debate is over in detail on the draft law on security-informative intelligence. I would like to put the second motion to vote, that the debate in particular, in accordance with Article 137. Rules of Procedure, three minutes tops. For 103, against 32, a abstentioned one, did not vote 21, out of 157 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal and decided that the discussion should take up to three minutes after the amendment. Since on the lists of parliamentary groups more declared to us by word, I ask if the Presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want not to take advantage of that right? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a joint principled search on the proposal for a law on security-intelligence and a proposal for a law on the organisation and jurisdiction of state authorities to combat organised crime. We're continuing our work on the agenda. We move to the 10th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Security and Information Agency (single) you have received a bill of law, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted by the MPs: together Rajko Baralić, Radojko Petrovic, Dragan Jovanovic, Živodarka Dacin and Ljubomir Mucic; jointly Leila Ruždić-Trifunović, Marin Krešić and Radoslav Nektarijević; together Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukić and Adam Urosevic and Vojislav Seselj. You've received a report from the Defence and Security Committee. Since the Government of the Republic of Serbia has not delivered an opinion, and the Legislative Committee's report on the examination of amendments submitted to the draft law, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 159(2), paragraph 2. Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly may decide to consider the bill without them. I am voting on the proposal that the National Assembly consider the draft law without the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Legislative Committee's report on the amendments made. For 92, against 30, a abstentioned one, did not vote 34, out of 157 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided to consider the draft law without the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the report of the Legislative Committee on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a joint principled search, under which the proposal for a Security and Information Agency Act has also been discussed, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Vojislav Seselj submitted to the 1st amendment. The Defense and Security Committee has not accepted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There's a word from MP Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23870	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, by amendment of the SRS, we propose that Article 1 be amended so that, in addition to these words, "the Security and Information Agency (hereinafter referred to as "the Agency") is educated as a special organisation" added "in the composition of the MUP". In principle debate, I've already spoken extensively, so now I'm going to remind you of that in a few brief notes. This agency must be responsible for someone who is not in the Serbian government. A secret person is a legislative authority, which means parliament. As agreed, the agency will not answer to parliament at all, except it can, based on a decision by the National Assembly (probably and must) report its work, by all depending on the will of the parliamentary majority. There is no possibility, as in calling for the minister's responsibility, of proposing to vote non-trust to the director on the basis of twenty signatures from any of the MPs. In the case of ministers, the opposition's initiative must be placed on the agenda, although you do not. You would work to respect the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution, and the director of the agency cannot by the same model as the minister to call for responsibility. The director of the agency's rights and duties are almost equal with the minister. In fact, there is no fundamental difference between the director and the minister. The difference is only in the name, so what does anyone prefer to be, the minister or the director? There's no principle of difference. That it is the same level of administrative authority also speaks of the fact that the law provides for agreement between the directors of the agency and the interior minister. The Agency is the Authority of State Administration and is subject to the State Administration Act. It shall be subject to the management of the administrative procedure. The agency's decisions are being ruled by administrative disputes, so in everything as well as with any other ministry. It is wrong when there are some authorities of the state administration that are not ministries, which are not within a particular ministry. We saw in the broadcasting law that you formed an organ of state administration and out of government...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23871	You're using the next three minutes as head of the parliamentary group?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23872	Yeah... Which is even more direct to opposing the letter of the Constitution, but we have absorbed this debate. I'm telling you here that you need to amend the Government Act and the Ministry Act. If you predict a new government body, it cannot survive on this law alone. This law has to be based on some general system. This isn't a system law. This is a law relating to a state body and there is a law on the agency, and there is no law on the interior ministry, there is no law on the ministry of traffic, there is no health ministry law, there is no law on the Ministry of Ecology. So this is not a law on how to fight a kind of organised crime, if that activity against the state can be called at all. That's all you can do for me, I don't mind. Those are the most beautiful sounds in the world to me and you feel free to do it every time I go out for a pay phone, I don't mind. What's more beautiful than a Russian anthem? Only the Serbian anthem can be closer to me than the Russian anthem. You do it all you want, it doesn't bother me. Isn't that right, Mr. Saviæ? The most beautiful is the Russian anthem, after the Serbian anthem. The UDBE chief agrees, so now you see. A voice from the O.R. What about our beautiful one? You're about to sing it. I expect Goran Svilanovic at all times. He's so condescending to Ustasha that it's amazing. He even prescribed for them the left bank of the Serbian Danube.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23873	People's MP, I give you a notice under article 101 because you have done an insult to the Minister of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23874	You can tell me whatever comes to mind. You're here to prevent a normal parliamentary debate. They bring me out of the O.R. our beautiful, and you don't warn them. When a Ustashaid, like Goran Svilanovic, is warned then give me a warning. Under such conditions, we Serbian radicals will not contact you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23875	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? The word is from MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the DOS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23876	Mrs. Micic, the Honorable Presidency, members of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, however, do not forget that we are passing a law on the establishment of a security-informative agency, so the law reforming the State Security Service and that we must be careful and serious about it. If they're not individuals from the opposition, that doesn't mean we should be. So, this amendment actually prevents the core insistence of democratic authorities to remove from the interior ministry the agency, which, by its character, deals with intelligence and ontra-intelligence and activities that are within the domain of security of the state and society. By accepting the initiative to resolve this matter by being part of the Ministry of the Interior; in fact, we would support a principle that has long been overcome. Here I can introduce you only through the mention of several standard principles with the working-law status of security services of Germany, Turkey, Ukraine, Russia, Croatia, Poland, the Czech Republic, so all European countries. In none of these cases, the agency or service dealing with matters of national security is part of the interior ministry; neither. We would actually make this amendment a precedent and confirm only that we do not have the strength to reform the State Security Service, which is needed by every democratic society. I think that by effective law, we would completely deny those ideas that are heading towards the full detachment of that service and its shut down, because there is no country of the democratic world without a service that takes care of national security, but no country of the democratic world that has so minimally regulated that area as this one is ours. Therefore, the working-legal status of members of foreign, or foreign security intelligence services is such that they are always removed from the interior ministry and directly subordinated to the government. Of course, this raises the issue of controlling the work of those services. The question of labour control is answered by the draft law in Article 17, where it is precisely said that, at the request of the National Assembly and the Government, the Agency's director must appear and report on the work of the Agency and the state of security of the Republic of Serbia. A question can be raised here to whom the director of the agency is obliged to submit a report on work within the Republic's parliament and whether it depends on the parliamentary majority. It is required to submit a report, at the request of the Republic Assembly, to the Committee on Defence and Security, in which, under the current Rules of Procedure, its rights and obligations are defined, and thus the Committee shall exercise control over the work of the Security Service and deal with matters in the field of security in accordance with the law. For the first time, the law on a security-intelligence agency allows the Committee on Defence and Security to act concretely. So far, this has not been possible, and as a Parliament, we will have to amend the Rules of Procedure on the work of Parliament and introduce the members of that committee to the status and concept of state secrets and the consequences of the violation of that right.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23877	I'm warning you, time's over.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23878	The Security Service's work control involves parliamentary control and competent people in those bodies that deal with that control. Therefore, persons who are members of the Defence and Security Committee will have to apply this law, but will also have to apply to themselves the law which obliges them to keep state secrets and a responsible relationship with their business. That, unfortunately, has not been regulated by law so far. This time it is an unacceptable amendment, because it would keep things at an existing level that has long been overcome.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23879	The government's vice-president and interior minister, Mr Dusan Mihalovic, spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23880	Gentlemen, I think it is very important that we understand the essence of this amendment submitted by Mr. Seselj. With this in mind, all other amendments submitted by the Serbian Radical Party are related to the basic position, which consists in the definition that the State Security Service should remain within the interior ministry and should not be singled out. Therefore, this is the essence of the proposal, and here it is already said enough that the essence of this law is precisely that the State Security Service should be singled out of the Ministry of Interior and established as an independent and independent state body, with its original powers and powers. So we heard here and from the president of the DOS parliamentary group that the practice of democratic countries practically does not know these examples, which we have, that the intelligence service is within the interior ministry. In all democratic countries, intelligence is isolated from the MUP. It's one question that I think we've reached some political consensus and a broader consensus in society that we should go that way and allow this secret service to be placed under civilian control and this way. The other thing I'd like to explain, heresene is about the adoption of a law on a state body, which I said in the opening statement, rather than the basis for the adoption of this law is Article 72(3). The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which determines that the Republic of Serbia regulates and provides security for the Republic of Serbia and its citizens. So far, this matter has been governed by the Internal Affairs Act. It is now being edited with two legal documents, the Internal Affairs Act and the Security and Information Agency Act. In fact, jurisdiction is divided into two areas: one is a matter of security, i.e. intelligence and counterintelligence, and the other is security affairs, primarily police and other affairs that remain in the MUP. So, we're going to have two state authorities to exercise jurisdiction in this area: one is the agency, and the other is the MUP. About the name of the agency, whether it was supposed to be the Ministry of State Security, etc., these are the things that experts and experts discussed and agreed to propose to you and the government this solution that is common in democratic countries of the world. It's a practice that exists and we didn't want to go back to some old model that we've been listening about here, but to follow what this democratic world recognizes. We went after the team. I repeat here, we will now have two state authorities responsible for the state of security in society. The agency will be responsible for intelligence and counterintelligence and its director will account for it to the government and the Assembly, as the interior minister will account for another part of the security affairs in this country. When it comes to control...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23881	Mr. Minister, thank you, you've exceeded your time, but you have every right to report.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23882	I don't think I would report on these amendments that are derived from this item, just to say when it comes to control, that we need to understand that these advices about not having a regulated control issue by the government and the Assembly simply don't stand, for the simple reason that the Government and the Assembly are autonomous and competent to regulate themselves, who on their behalf and how they control the work of this service. This is what the Government, and it has the National Security Council, can bring and arrange the area in another way than this assembly has a Defence and Security Committee, which is responsible for controlling the service and public and state security. And now, the question may, if it considers it necessary, be complemented and amended, but that is the jurisdiction of the Assembly, you have the right to do so and there is no need for anyone else to suggest that it regulates it on your behalf.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23883	Thank you. Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate applying for a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 2nd amendment were submitted jointly by MPs Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Adam Urosevic. The Defence and Security Committee has not accepted this amendment. National MP Milos Lukic, representative of the applicants for the amendment to Article 2, came forward. It's a bill of law.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23884	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, we actually received the second law first, the law on the jurisdiction of certain state authorities to combat organised crime, and then the law on the security-information agency. This change in order makes a certain mistake. However, I will try to explain briefly what this is about. The Soviet Parliament group has submitted an amendment to Article 2 where it says that at the end of this article, the words "as well as the fight against organised crime" are added. That Article 2 shall, in fact, determine the competences of the Agency. In addition to security-intelligence data, research, collection, etc., means all of those matters related to the country's security, we have suggested that these jobs be added. First of all, organized crime has no limit. There are both internal and international organised crime. By doing organised crime on an international scale, this country is at risk. It could hardly be practical to separate these two activities. We think it's gone too far in forming new organs. In the last two days we've formed a special prosecutor, special courts, a special prison, then we form an agency, a service, etc. Who knows what else lies ahead for us in the fall, when the other authorities of the MUP are formed. We have to remind ourselves that this country has been so reduced lately, that we can cross the malts from end to end with half a tank of fuel. We continue to increase this state apparatus and increase the potential of conflict between the state authorities and these specialised agencies, etc. So we should simplify all of this and realize that Serbia is one of the piety and normal states, that we don't make it into some monster, that we don't turn out to be collectively now scared for some of our personal positions, for personal security, etc., so that we pass it on to the state burden. I'll remind you one more time, if we have a special purpose service at the MUP, and this is the one for fighting organised crime, we have an agency that actually needs to take over public security matters, all of this requires some new premises, some parallel people, parallel services, parallel technical resources. It's all costing and you realize that this is a well-intentioned amendment, actually related to amendments to the previous law, where we're asking that the organized crime control service actually be attached to this agency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23885	Thank you. Is anyone else applying for this amendment? Here you are, MP Borislav Pelevic, the authorised representative of the Soviet Parliament group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23886	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I believe the amendment, which was explained by the MP, Mr Milos Lukic, on behalf of the Soviet Union. Today's session of the Defence and Security Committee, attended by a representative of the government, did not accept this amendment for reasons unknown to me. What exactly is this about? The amendment only wants to strengthen Article 2 and that the agency is engaged in and combating organised crime, because we believe that there is not only domestic, but also foreign organised crime. The representative did today say that the agency will deal with organised crime in some way. I see no reason not to adopt it and not to include it in Article 2 of this bill. Organized crime, both domestic and international, and could endanger the security and constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia. That's why it's very good for this member to be accepted. I think it's an insufficient explanation of the government's representatives, that different methods of working are a special task force to combat organised crime and this agency that is being formed. I argue that although the methods are different, the aim is the same, to curb organised crime, i.e. to ensure the security of the Republic of Serbia and its citizens. That is why I believe that the National Assembly should adopt the amendment of the Soviet Union and that one of the tasks that will be formulated by law will also be the suppression of organised crime. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23887	Prime Minister and Interior Minister Dusan Mihajlovic reportedly.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23888	I think it's an unnecessary misunderstanding. The substance of the amendment proposed has been accepted. The government installed it in the text of the law. This is just a matter of misreading the purpose of individual members, because Article 2 of this law actually determines who is subject to protection in this area. It's the Republic of Serbia. He does not list here or terrorism, there is no organised crime either, because the Agency's competence is determined by Article 12, where it is said: "The Agency's members, deployed to special organisational units under Article 6 of this Act, in the detection, monitoring, documenting, preventing, combating and cutting off the activities of organisations and persons directed at the conduct of organised crime and criminal acts with elements of abroad, internal and international terrorism". Therefore, this amendment is contained, not only in Article 2, but in Article 12. There is no need to change now this Article 2 which does not regulate the issue, but determines who is the object of protection.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23889	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. The Defence and Security Committee has not accepted this amendment. The applicant for the amendment is not present. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. The Defence and Security Committee has not accepted this amendment. The applicant for the amendment is not present. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Rajko Baralić, Radojko Petric, Dragan Jovanovic, Zivodarka Dacin and Ljubomir Mucic. The Defence and Security Committee has not accepted this amendment. Is anyone applying for this amendment? The word has been sent by the People's Parliament of Živodarka Dacin, representative of the applicants for the amendment to Article 4. Proposal for a law on a security-information agency.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23890	Dear Presidency, Mr Minister, honourable fellow Members of Parliament, as one of the signatories of the SPS Group, I will explain the amendment that we have tabled to Article 4(1), which, among other things, refers to control, which we have talked about today. He's thinking about so-called civilian control, which I've noticed with all the speakers, no matter what political options they come from. I can say that we've come to some common opinion that it's necessary. Article 4 reads: "The Agency's work control is carried out by competent authorities, in accordance with the law and other regulations". We propose to add that the Agency's work control "is achieved by the Committee on the Defence and Security of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and others", then the text continues as set out in the draft law and written. Simply, we felt that the Assembly Committee on Defence and Security had both a duty and a responsibility to control all security services. I don't think accepting this amendment would violate the very principle of this law. I therefore appeal to all of you, given that the Committee has rejected this amendment, if the Government can accept such an amendment, to adopt it in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23891	Does anyone else sign up for a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović, Marin Kresic and Radoslav Nektarijević. The Defence and Security Committee has not accepted this amendment. The word is made by MP Marin Kresic, representative of the amendment applicants, to Article 5.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23892	This is the first of the five amendments I explained in the discussion in principle. In fact, if they hold one of the overall obligations of civilian control over the work of this agency, then this is the first step. In fact, members of the Defence and Security Committee will take an oath, keep the state secret, and in this way continue the parliamentary practice that we have already begun. Actually, it's so-called. an examination of the candidates at the beginning of his term of office. Our amendment refers to the appointment of the Director of the Agency; it says in law that the Director is appointed by the Government, and we add: "with the consent of the Committee".
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23893	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? The word is from MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the DOS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23894	Ms. Micic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is a proposal for an amendment of the MPs from the DOS Group, and I am obliged to offer some explanation based on which our representatives in the Security Committee have denied the support of this amendment. It is true that the issue of control is very serious and that in this job, an unforgiving parliament must play a very important role. It is a modern solution that we find in all democratically organized societies, regardless of geographical positions. However, this amendment would, in fact, lead parliament to take over a certain administrative function. This is problematic with several aspects, primarily because it is a specific business for which parliament is not in charge in such a way, nor can it do so in accordance with the internal acts of the Republic of Parliament and with everything that Parliament would actually be obliged to do. We, as parliament, can raise the issue of control of the work of the service, or security-informative agency, to raise the issue of the competence of the human resources policy it is leading, to ask the government for an explanation for the individual moves that the government has made, but we cannot give a positive or negative opinion. We don't see, I'm practically trying to explain how a situation would be solved in which parliament would give a negative opinion based on its artistic impression, because that's what we call it in some other situations, especially when in the Law on Broadcasting, when we had that problematic amendment, where there was a political resemblance without clear criteria. Here is a question of the criteria, on the basis of which Parliament's criteria can give a positive, or negative opinion, and whether they can only do so by members of the Security Committee or by the topic on which the Assembly should discuss it. It is a process that is much broader than the fundamentally very good initiative and aims to make the Assembly appear as an actor of this very important work. But the work of the Committee is inescapably related to the work of the Assembly and this introduces us into a procedure in which the Assembly would deal with human rights issues for which the Government is responsible. If we raise this with the question of the Director of the Security Information Agency, then tomorrow we will discuss the head of the EPS, the day after tomorrow about the director of Belgrade Airport, because all of these are the government's competences. We are here at all times to open up the issue of competence, responsibility and absolutely lead the process of control, as provided for by this law. I have with me documentation on the control of the work of similar services in the world. Germany, the United States, Italy, Great Britain, Ukraine, Slovakia, the Republic of Hungary, Russia, Romania, Slovenia, Poland, Bosnia, Republika Srpska, Croatia, the Czech Republic, Lithuania, all these countries have dealt with it this way. So nothing is authentic about our solution, but those principles that have proved to be functional and justified have been applied. Control is one topic, administrative function and the government's right to run such a kind of policy is something that is in the power of the executive authority and we as a legislative authority should not have ties in such a way.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23895	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate applying for a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. The Defence and Security Committee has not accepted this amendment. The applicant for the amendment is not present. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. The Defence and Security Committee has not accepted this amendment. The applicant for the amendment is not present. Does anyone else want to talk about the amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. The Defence and Security Committee has not accepted this amendment. The applicant for the amendment is not present. Does anyone else want to talk about the amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. The Defence and Security Committee has not accepted this amendment. The applicant for the amendment is not present. Does anyone else want to talk about the amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. The Defence and Security Committee has not accepted this amendment. The applicant for the amendment is not present. Does anyone else want to talk about the amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Leila Ruzdić-Trifunović, Marin Kresic and Radoslav Nektarijević. The Defence and Security Committee has not accepted this amendment. Does the amendment's representative want to talk about the amendment? Here's a word from MP Marin Kresic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23896	In short, that's the second principle. It is a matter of deviating from the principle of inviolability and secrecy of the letter and discretionary rights. With this amendment, we propose that it be not only the Supreme Court's judge, but that this discretionary right be shared with the public prosecutor, in fact, that three steps, logically chronologically involved in the entire anti-crime process, be assigned to this very delicate subject, which, if it remains in the narrow circle, lead to human abuses, are human beings, and in the extreme line and human rights violations. So instead of two or three, even though the amendment is a little longer, but it was consistently implemented throughout the article as a proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23897	The government's vice-president, Interior Minister Dusan Mihajlovic, applied for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23898	I must point out that this amendment is not acceptable because the Constitution clearly regulates this matter. The court is only competent to approve proceedings in guaranteeing the secrecy of the letter and other types of communication, so there is no reason for the attorney general to enter here now, and there is no reason not to believe in the judiciary, its impartiality and its independence.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23899	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. The Defence and Security Committee has not accepted this amendment. The applicant for the amendment is not present. Does anyone else want to talk about the amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović, Marin Kresic and Radoslav Nektarijević. The Defence and Security Committee has not accepted this amendment. Does the amendment's representative want to talk about the amendment? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. The Defence and Security Committee has not accepted this amendment. The applicant for the amendment is not present. Does anyone else want to talk about the amendment? No, I don't. ) The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Leila Ruzdić-Trifunović, Marin Kresic and Radoslav Nektarijević. The Defence and Security Committee has not accepted this amendment. Does the amendment's representative want to talk about the amendment? Here's a word from MP Marin Kresic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23900	This is the first principle, actually the involvement of the Assembly in the control of the Agency's work, again at the beginning of the process. So, we propose that the first four positions be deleted in Article 16 and that "the director of the agency and the minister in charge of internal affairs draws closer to the offices by means of an act of obligation" on mutual co-operation, and we say - with the agreement of the Committee. We are practically eliminating from this law quite broadly, and unfocused different powers, and we suggest that this should be adopted as an act in this configuration and with this involvement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23901	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Rajko Baralić, Radojko Petrovic, Dragan Jovanovic, Živodarka Dacin and Ljubomir Mucic. The Defence and Security Committee has not accepted this amendment. Does the amendment's representative want to talk about the amendment? Here's a word from MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23902	The Honorable Presidency, Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Colonel Savić, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with several SPS colleagues, I have submitted an amendment to a chapter defining the way in which the work is done. It is Article 16(5). It is proposed: "The Director of the Agency and the Minister of Home Affairs will deal with an act of mandatory form and means of achieving the co-operation of the Agency and the Ministry of Interior in matters of interest in the security and constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the security of people and property". We felt that this should be defined differently and we offered the text, i.e. that this member should be reformed and it would read: "The government of the Republic of Serbia will, by means of its act, regulate the mandatory forms and ways of achieving the co-operation of the agency and the interior ministry in matters of interest for the security and constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the security of people and property". We felt, if there was a conflict of jurisdiction, that the government was invited, because it was also responsible for the functioning of the agency and for the functioning of the MUP. The Security Committee has not accepted this amendment. I understand the explanation we got there, but I still think the amendment we're offering is a better solution because the government is older than the ministry. The government corresponds to the National Assembly for its work, so the level of control would be set differently. I'm taking this opportunity to say that I believe that the transformation of the D.B. Service will be done so that workers, former D.B.S. personnel, will not remain on the street, will not be out of a job. It's about people who are highly educated, who have done their job with honor, in accordance with the Constitution and the laws of this country. I hope the MPs also understand that the DB service was not political police, as was often said, but that it was a responsible service that carried out the responsible and subtle tasks that exist in every country, so there are also in this one of ours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23903	Prime Minister and Interior Minister Dusan Mihajlovic reportedly.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23904	There is no need to adopt this amendment because its essence is resolved by other legal provisions and solutions. Namely, these laws, which we also adopt, and the Internal Affairs Act, regulate the responsibility of the ministry, or agency, and when it comes to their organisation, it is the Government that is empowered to adopt frameworks and guidelines for the organisation and ministry and agency. This will avoid this conflict of jurisdiction, and this agreement is about an operational agreement, operational matters, and there is no need for the government to deal with it, because it brings principles and guidelines for the work of both ministries and agencies, which is regulated by Article 18. So this is regulated, as regulated and conflict of jurisdiction under Article 16(3), where it is said - that in the event of a conflict of jurisdiction, the Government decides, in accordance with the law and other regulations. Therefore, all the matter proposed by this amendment has already been regulated by these or other legal provisions, and I said in the opening statement that no member of the State Security Resolution will remain on the street, because those who do not take over the agency will be deployed to the right jobs and jobs under this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23905	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the DOS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23906	Ms. Micic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, and given the speed that we are passing this debate in detail on the current agenda, I suggest we make a nice gesture, make an additional effort and extend the debate in detail and on the agenda point concerning the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in combating organised crime. In such a way, we can save funds and allow ourselves to settle some important political issues during the voting day tomorrow, without prolonging and additional discussions to which we would be exposed. Thank you in advance for your understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23907	I am putting to the vote the motion of the DOS parliamentary group to continue the debate in particular on the next item of the agenda. For 97, against 28, two abstentions, no vote of 20, of 147 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal and decided to continue the discussion in detail and on the next item of the agenda. Second, I put... Please, the word has been made by the deputy president of the parliamentary group, MP Sinisa Mitrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23908	Dear Presidency, fellow MPs, given the consensus that we have reached in the vote and this unanimous support to work in the interests of citizens and parliament, I propose that the discussion of the amendments in particular last three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23909	I would like to put on the vote by MP Sinisa Mitrovica to hold the debate in detail for a maximum of three minutes. For 95, against 25, a abstentioned one, was not voted 24 out of 145 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal of the MP Sinisha Mitrovica. Have we finished discussing the amendment to Article 16? Is anyone else applying for that amendment? No, I don't. ) The 17th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Rajko Baralić, Radojko Petrovic, Dragan Jovanovic, Zivodarka Dacin and Ljubomir Mucic. The Defence and Security Committee has not accepted this amendment. Does a representative of the applicants of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) Here you are, MP Radojko Petric.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23910	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, on behalf of the SPS, along with a group of MPs, I have submitted an amendment to the amendment of article 17 on labour control and information security agency. Namely, in Article 17. The government has proposed that, in terms of the Agency's work control, the Agency's director be required to submit a report on the work of the Agency and on the state of security of the Republic of Serbia at the request of the National Assembly and the Government. The amendment proposes to amend the government's proposal and to ensure more systematic and comprehensive control of the Agency's work. In fact, the amendment proposes that the agency's director be obliged to submit to the National Assembly and the Government once a year a mandatory report on the work of the Agency and on the state of security of the Republic of Serbia; secondly, that the director of the Agency be obliged to submit the report twice a year to the Committee of the National Assembly for Defence and Security; and thirdly, that the director of the Agency is obliged to submit, in addition to the above mentioned report on the work of the Agency and at the request of the National Assembly, the Government and the Defence and Security Committee. In fact, the amendment essentially changes the approach to the Agency's work control. It is not only necessary to provide for the Agency's obligation to submit a report on the work on someone's request, even though it is a request from the Assembly and the Government. The obligation should be made that the Agency must report once a year to the National Assembly and the Government. In particular, it is necessary to give the Agency a place of control by the Assembly Committee on Defence and Security, as this amendment is actually proposed. Appreciateing the importance of the agency, it is necessary to provide for more complete control of its work and insight into the implementation of views and guidelines relating to the security-intelligence policy of the Republic of Serbia. It cannot be left to the government alone, control in the first place should be done by this parliament either directly or through its committee, because it is the highest representative body of citizens and the highest representative body of the legislative authority. The amendment should be accepted in order for the Agency not to be removed from parliamentary control and not be misused for any purpose or in any of the interests. I really think there's room to supplement and adopt the amendment in terms of expanding the Agency's control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23911	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? Yeah. ) Please, the word has been given by MP Borislav Pelevic, authorised representative of the Soviet Parliament group for this item of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23912	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Assembly Group of the Soviet Union will support this amendment, and I hope that there will be enough responsibility in this Parliament for it to be included and to become an integral part of this law, because if we are talking about civil, or parliamentary control of state security, or what it will be called, security-informative agencies, then it is necessary for the director of the agency at least twice a year to submit a report on the work of the Agency to the Serbian Parliament's Defence and Security Committee. It's not enough that in Article 17. The bill stands - at the request of the National Assembly and the Government, the director of the agency is obliged to submit a report on the Agency's work and on the state of security of the Republic of Serbia. What's the problem? The problem is that DOS has a majority in parliament and that it is unlikely that it will ever request and submit a request on behalf of the National Assembly, that the director of the agency submit a report on the agency's work. If we talk about the agency's work being public, or under the control of the parliament and the Serbian government, then it is necessary to apply this amendment and I think today it will harm the DOS majority, or the legislator of this law to make this amendment an integral part of this law. Otherwise, another DOS parliamentary group has submitted a similar amendment, which means there are conscious people who really want the agency to be under parliament's control in the future. Don't kid yourself. Homeland security is national security. She always works for whoever has power in the state. So it was before, so it is now and so it will certainly be in the future, and not to be fooled about it, it is quite clear and I think that by including this amendment in the bill, the newly established security-information agency work will become truly public, or controlled by parliament. I don't think there's any reason for this amendment not to be accepted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23913	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. The Defence and Security Committee has not accepted this amendment. The MP is not present. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 17th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Leila Ruzdic - Trifunović, Marin Kresic and Radoslav Nektarijević. The Defence and Security Committee has not accepted this amendment. The representative of the amendment wants a word? Here you are, MP Marin Kresic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23914	The last, but key amendment of the Democratic Centre, which actually introduces the obligation to report on the Agency's work twice a year to both the National Assembly and the Government, rather than solely at the request. I think it's clear to all of us that we've explained enough in principle discussions, and I've come out that, since we've extended the work and the particulars of the other law, I'm announcing that we're giving up the amendment to this second law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23915	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. The Defence and Security Committee has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? There are no reports. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. The Defence and Security Committee has not accepted this amendment. The MP is not present. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. The Defence and Security Committee has not accepted this amendment. The MP is not present. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. The Defence and Security Committee has not accepted this amendment. The MP is not present. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Rajko Baralic, Radojko Petrovic, Dragan Jovanovic, Zivodarka Dacin and Ljubomir Mucic. The Defence and Security Committee has not accepted this amendment. Is anyone answering for this amendment? There is a word from MP Ljubomir Mucic, representative of the applicants for the amendment to Article 23. It's a bill of law.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23916	Dear People's MPs, Mr. Minister, along with four other colleagues, MPs, the SPS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 23 of the proposed law. Since this article has three positions, the amendment to heading 1 is more technical, and the amendment to point 3 which is essential in nature. First, let me say that in Article 1 relating to keeping secrets from members of the agency, we suggest that a member of the agency is obliged to permanently keep the data of the agency representing the state secret; still not to list, that is confirmed in point 2. - the obligation to keep data, measures and actions referred to in Article 1, which means permanent storage is accepted at the time of admission to work and is valid at the end of work at the agency; this is a confirmation of what I said about Article 1, that a member of the agency is a "one-time cop, a life cop" and that he is obliged to keep a secret all the time while working at the agency, at the time of entry and after the agency's work has stopped. The amendment to Article 3 is essential, and I will try to convince you and the MPs to accept it. The position: "The obligation to keep secret members of the Agency may be released by the Director of the Agency". Our proposal is that this amendment reads: "The obligation to keep secret members of the agency can free the Government of the Republic of Serbia". I think this should be transferred to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, one collective body, not left to an individual, who is also an agency worker. Who can free him from keeping secrets and data that have occurred? I think this is related to Article 11, where it stands: the way in which the information and documents referred to in Article 1 of this Article are recorded, processed, stored, used, protected and delivered. In this case, the government should also be free of the obligation to keep state secrets, military and other secrets, as well as measures and decisions of the agency. For the above-mentioned reasons, I believe that this amendment is indeed acceptable and we see that at the moment when the Federal Government is doing so, and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, however, because of these frequent changes and changes, it should be an institution that can be a member of the agency and also a director of the Agency, free from secrecy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23917	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? He has the word of Deputy Prime Minister and Interior Minister Dusan Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23918	In order to avoid any confusion over this amendment, there is no need for agency members to keep a secret for life or forever, for the simple reason that legal regulations and other acts regulate the time limit for keeping certain secrets, depending on what data is. It is known that these archives are opening after a certain number of years, and there is nothing to guard after that. So he'll respect the legal provisions, but there's no need to take anything to the grave if it's available to everyone, and to the public.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23919	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. The Defence and Security Committee has not accepted this amendment. The MP is not present. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 27 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. The Defence and Security Committee has not accepted this amendment. The MP is not present. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the draft law in particular, I ask - does the proposing representative, Mr Dusan Mihajlovic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior want a final word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23920	I am taking this opportunity to just look back with a few words on some remarks or questions raised in today's debate by MPs Pal Shandor and MP Ćirkovic. It's about the following -- it was a matter of taking employees from the Ministry to this agency, what are the criteria? There is no mystification, the criteria are the same, those that apply to the state administration in general, to work in internal affairs bodies, and especially for those definitions that the government has about depoliticalizing and decriminalising this work; and we have an additional legal obligation, that the workers of this agency do not have the right to political and trade union organisation and membership. The issue of lustration, which has been raised in this regard, is the subject of another law, not the subject of this debate, which we were having today. There have been questions regarding article 19 that say that all persons involved in the control of the work of this agency are obliged to keep secrets, so there have been issues that are persons - so all those who participate in the control, start with MPs, members of the Committee on Defence and Security, members of the Government and some of the working bodies of the Government, who will deal with this control. So, all the persons who come into possession of the data representing a state or official secret regarding the work of this agency. There's been a budget speech. It is true that in the light of this law, it says that additional resources will be needed, but we think that this partial balance and liabilities will be resolved in such a way that this significantly does not burden this budget and that, possibly, some of the additional resources that are needed are provided from the fixed and current budget reserves, so I do not believe that any budget rebalances will be necessary. In the end, there were talks about the State Security Service files on their fate, and a proposal was made for the law to be passed. I have already said that the entire concept of the Ministry's reform, i.e. this area, involves four legal projects, including the State Security Service's file law. Because this government regulation is temporary and it is only because it is temporary to replace legal matter; it is also restrictive in the sense of which Mr. MP spoke, so I have no comment here, but I only suggest that it be involved in the adoption of this legislative project, whose work versions have already been done. Finally, I would like to take the opportunity to thank all the MPs for participating in this debate, especially the members of the Committee on Defence and Security, and to express my satisfaction on behalf of the Government and the Ministry that this important legislative project has been adopted and that we will regulate this area in a completely new and better way than before.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23921	I thank Mr. Minister and conclude the search of the bill in particular. We move to the 11th item of the agenda: - PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON ORGANISATION AND AUTHORITY OF THE COUNTRY AUTHORITIES IN THE SUZBIANIJUORGANISED CRIME (separate) You have received the bill, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments, which were submitted to the bill by the MPs: Srdjan Sikimić, Slobodan Tomović, Zarko Obradović, Zoran Andjelković, Radojko Petrić, Slobodan Pavlovic, Joca Arsić, Rajko Baralić, Đura Lazić, Toma Busetic, Ljubisa Marašić, Branko Ružić, Hranislav Perić, Borisvoje Draculaović, Bora Stanimirović, Milan Janković, Miomir Ilic, Sreten Mitrović and Dragan Todorović, Vojislav Šelj, Aleksandar Trkulja, Ljubisa Kesić, Sima Radulović and Milos Lučić, Dragan Marković, Petar Petrović, Milos Lukić, Adam Urošević and Zivko Selaković, Leila Ruždić-Trifunović, Radoslav Nektarijević and Marin Krešić, Ljubodrag Grbić, Ljubić as well and Braštić. National MP Natasa Milojevic has untimely submitted amendments to the bill. You've received a report from the Justice and Administration Committee. Since the Government of the Republic of Serbia has not delivered an opinion, and the Legislative Committee reports on the examination of amendments submitted to the draft law, in accordance with Article 159. I propose that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly decide to consider the draft law in particular without the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the report of the Legislative Committee. I'm putting the motion to a vote. For 87, against 18, the abstentioned were not voted 34, a total of 139 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal and decided to hold a debate in detail on this item of the agenda without the opinion of the Government and the report of the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has carried out a joint principled search, under which the draft law on the organisation and jurisdiction of state authorities in the repression of organised crime has been discussed, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. Under the name of the bill, the amendments were submitted jointly by MPs Slobodan Tomović, Zarko Obradović, Zoran Andjelkovic, Radojko Petrovic, Slobodan Pavlovic, Joca Arsic, Rajko Baralić, Đura Lazić, Toma Busetic, Ljubisa Maravic, Branko Ružić, Hranislav Perić, Borisvoje Drakulović, Bora Stanimirović, Milan Jankovic, Miomir Ilic, Sreten Mitrović and Dragan Todorovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. Does a representative of the applicants of the amendment want a word? The word has been made by MP Zoran Angelkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23922	Ladies and gentlemen, from the content of this text of laws or arguments, and today in the debate in principle, it was said that it also meant to conduct proceedings against all those suspected in front of The Hague tribunal or in any way be bound by acts in the area. With that in mind, it is at least fair that the legislator makes it clear that they will be the subject of the indictment here and that special prosecutors, the entire administration under this law, will also be bound by these proceedings. It's not about whether or not it's supposed to be, it's about not being correct, and it's not moral for those people who have fought terrorism to be on the agenda now, invited by someone who's fighting organised crime, so it turns out they're criminals too because they've been fighting terrorism. For these reasons, it is fair at least not to go to the prosecutor in charge of organised crime, so together to be treated as someone who imports and breaks up drugs or imports and cracks cigarettes, so that in the same way they are treated. This is why it is important, because of the public and because of the law itself, that it clearly and honestly writes what the law will contain. In addition, Article 2(1) clearly states that these works are on the agenda of this law and, if so, we suggest that those acts be treated in the very title of the law, more specifically, it is written that those against whom the infringement of humanitarian law is being brought. That's why we're proposing an addition to this name of the law. Now imagine a man who has been ordered by the state to fight terrorism, in terrorist actions and who is to come to the prosecutor's call, who is in charge of fighting organised crime, to give a statement and a statement. I don't think that's correct for these people, according to those tens or hundreds, I'm not going to say if it's 16 grand, 5 grand or a thousand. There are also 100 who can be invited to be treated this way as criminals when calling, when recording, and when giving, in the end, statements. So I ask that the essence of the law that is written here be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23923	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) I remind you of the provision of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which no MP can approach until he has obtained permission from the chairman of the National Assembly. It is in your interest to respect the rules of the Rules of Procedure, not to test the criminal provisions of the Rules of Procedure. Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Slobodan Tomović, Zarko Obradović, Zoran Andjelkovic, Radojko Petrovic, Slobodan Pavlovic, Joca Arsic, Rajko Baralić, Đura Lazić, Toma Busetic, Ljubisa Maravic, Branko Ružić, Hranislav Perić, Borisvoje Drakulović, Bora Stanimirović, Milan Jankovic, Miomir Ilic, Sreten Mitrović and Dragan Todorovic together. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? The word has a National MP, Slobodan Tomovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23924	Dear Mrs. Comic... I can't look at you either. It doesn't apply to you, just to the remarks of this well-trained MP. We suggest, please calm down, I'm at the pay phone, it's not that hard, and there's that movement on TV "it's not hard to be nice". Come on, do your best. So, we propose that Article 1 be amended and that this article reads as follows: "This law regulates education, organisation and jurisdiction of special organisational units of state bodies to detect, prosecute and condemn the perpetrators of the crimes set out in this law." Why? In Article 1, as it has been studied in the proposal, it is said that the law regulates education, organisations, competences and powers. In further members, there's not much to talk about powers or at all, so we don't think there should be room in this law for the words "and powers". It is referred to the judgment authorities by mentioning the jurisdiction of district courts, appeals courts, the formation of these courts, etc. We think, therefore, if it is already spoken of in these articles, then it should stand in this article which in a certain way represents the preamble of this law. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23925	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? Yeah. ) The word has a representative of the promoter, minister of justice in the government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23926	Let me just say that what the amendment proposes is governed by the Code of Criminal Procedure, so criminal prosecution can result, but it doesn't have to result in a verdict. There can be a drop in criminal prosecution, and that's why it can't stand for a verdict.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23927	National MP Vojislav Seselj submitted to the 1st amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. The applicant for the amendment is not present. Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. The applicant for the amendment is not present. Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Alexander Trkulj. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Alexander Trukulya.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23928	Dear Mrs Comic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted to Article 2 of the amendment because, in my opinion, it has not been clearly understood what crimes the law refers to. Since the Committee on Justice and Administration has accepted part of this amendment and introduced it as its amendment 1 and amendment 2, I am giving up this amendment. I wanted to ask if Mrs. Comic would allow me to explain my second amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23929	When it's on the agenda of the discussion in particular. I find that the applicant for the amendment has withdrawn the amendment, which ceases to be the subject of discussion in particular. National MPs Zoran Boskovic, Novica Djuraskovic and Branislav Grubaski submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Zoran Boskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23930	Dear Mrs Comic, ladies and gentlemen, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2 of the Law, and I propose that items 1) and 2) of Article 2 be deleted: "This law is applied for the detection and prosecution of the perpetrators of the following crimes, when an element of organised crime is present: 1) against constitutional order or security of the SRJ; 2) against humanity and international law. As regards point 1), crimes against security or the constitutional arrangement of Yugoslavia do not fall within organised crime, in terms of international obligations taken over by Yugoslavia by signing several international agreements, and as is the case here on page 8. It's a bill of law. Criminal acts against constitutional arrangement or security of the SRJ are already norms in the SRJ Criminal Law and will be dealt with by the service of the current Serbian State Security Restor, i.e. A future intelligence and security agency or service of the government of the Republic of Serbia, in line with the solutions of Serbia-Montenegro's future constitutional charter. In addition, putting in charge of a special prosecutor of criminal offences against the constitutional order and security of the state opens up the possibility of political abuse and violation of the basic democratic rights of citizens, which, given the situation found on October 5th, seems likely. As for the second point, crimes against humanity and international law are prescribed in the Criminal Law of Yugoslavia and there is no new need for special bodies and bodies to prosecute them. It is the regular work of the law enforcement authority, to which they are bound by signed and ratified international conventions and contracts that are more than half a century old. This is about the ineffectiveness of the law enforcement system, primarily the prosecution and courts, in the application of existing international standards. Despite the circumstances that without the help and support of the former regime of action against humanity and international law could not be committed in this area, we believe that it does not fall within the concept of organised crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23931	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic, Adam Urosevic and Zivko Selakovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. In the name of the applicants, the word has been given by MP Milos Lukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23932	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, I have a suggestion to give up this amendment, but I think the minister will work very hard to explain to me how it came to be said in Article 2(1): "This law is applied for the detection and prosecution of the perpetrators of the following crimes, when the element of organised crime is present: 1) "against constitutional order or security of the SRJ". The police minister, less than half an hour ago, called on several occasions at article 72. The constitution when he was talking about the law on a security-intelligence agency. Starting with the constitutional rights and duties of the Republic of Serbia, which is why and the authority of the Assembly, I think it is quite appropriate that, as in our amendment, the Republic of Serbia should stand instead of the SRJ. Especially since the duration of the SRJ is already quite near the end, so in the next 20 days it will be pointless. I also note that this is contrary to the entire set of law on justice and on the prosecution, so unfortunately I am not withdrawing this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23933	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the minister of justice of the government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23934	I could agree with the political dimension of this amendment, but formally, it remains as a provision of this law and Article 2 of point 1), and should remain for a simple reason that we do not have instruments at the federal level, and this refers to the previous amendment, which would execute the prosecution of perpetrators of criminal acts and lead a trial against them if it is an attack on the constitutional arrangement of the SRJ. If it's not there, it'll be easy to change the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23935	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) Amendment to Article 2 submitted jointly by MPs Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović, Radoslav Nektarijević and Marin Kresic, on behalf of the applicants, the amendment MP Marin Kresic withdrew, thus ending the debate in detail. The Committee on Justice and Administration has also submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word from authorized participants in the debate? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and on behalf of the Proposer of Justice, Mr Vladan Batic accepts the amendment to Article 2, which was submitted by the Committee on Justice and Administration. Members of the National Assembly Slobodan Tomović, Zarko Obradović, Zoran Andjelkovic, Radojko Petrovic, Slobodan Pavlovic, Joca Arsic, Rajko Baralić, Đura Lazić, Toma Busetic, Ljubisa Maravić, Branko Ružić, Hranislav Perić, Borisvoje Drakulović, Bora Stanimirović, Milan Jankovic, Miomir Ilic, Sreten Mitrović and Dragan Todorovic together. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the applicants of the amendment, the word has been made by MP Zoran Angelkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23936	Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear from this article that the terrorist amnesty trend continues in both southern Serbia and Kosovo and Metohija. If the perpetrators are only treated here against humanity and international law, and in this classification, regardless of what it says in the explanation, there is no act against terrorism, and we think it would be logical, then probably someone wants to continue the tendency of the Law on Amnesty at federal level, where all are factually for all acts of terrorism in southern Serbia, amnesty, both convicted of acts of terrorism and those against which the proceedings have been initiated. That would mean that both those who killed 1,300 people and kidnapped in Kosovo and Metohija in terrorist actions, both individuals as terrorists and the KLA as a terrorist organisation, that this law, or at least this part, should not apply, but probably only to others. We don't think that's a good thing, because from this Article 2, without point 2) it would be just a free interpretation from an explanation, where it can be concluded that it applies to them. We think, if not in this point 2) of Article 2, then point 3 can be added, where it would be said "both for acts of terrorism and terrorist activity". So if it is important to remain this point 2) in Article 2 to add item 3) to ensure that these parts are also written here. (Vladan Batic: You did not formulate the amendment well. If we understand the essence, then we can discuss the formulation. I think it's hard to avoid being accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23937	Anyone else want a word? The word has a minister of justice, Mr Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23938	The amendment would have its logic if it had been said - against terrorism, humanity and international law. But you suggest erasing humanity and international law and introducing only terrorism. That's not what you suggested. If it's feasible, I don't mind getting involved - terrorism, humanity and international law. It's the same situation with this other part of the amendment. I think you can delete this definition. You used the whole part of the sentence. "As the smallest measure," it can be deleted, because it has already been said "jail of at least five years", so there is no need to speak twice at least, at least. So that's acceptable. I think this could be done technically, regardless of the little terminology in the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23939	According to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the amendment can be accepted or rejected as a whole. We cannot vote on accepting part of the amendment or refusing part of the amendment. If this is a legal-technical order, the Legislative Committee must be made known, so that the goodwill of the Government's representative does not have a foothold in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) Members of the People's Parliament Ljubisa Kesic, Sima Radulović and Milos Lucic jointly submitted the 2nd amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. Is anyone applying for this amendment? The word has a folk MP, Ljubisa Kesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23940	Dear Mrs Comic, dear ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment, which we have tabled, we are practically proposing to supplement, in Article 2, point 3 of this bill with three criminal acts. In his amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee accepted robbery and robbery theft as its part of the amendment, and it became groundless here. However, I think it also deserves a criminal offence of abuse of the official position to be found as an act provided for in point 3. It is often a crime of abuse of official office, of course, with the fulfilment of all other conditions in order to be in the element of organised crime, more serious than the criminal act of receiving and giving bribes. Therefore, along with receiving and giving bribes, the crime of abuse would have reason to have a special procedure and special prosecution through a special prosecutor.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23941	Anyone else want a word? The word has a minister of justice, Mr Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23942	I must say that the amendment has its logic, but it's filled with the provision of Article 2 point 4 because for certain criminal acts of abuse of official position, kidnapping, robbery and robbery, as you know, a sentence of at least five years is scheduled. In this way, in that part of qualified forms of these crimes is incorporated in point 4).
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23943	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Sikimic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. The amendmentr wants a word. The People's MP Srdjan Sikimic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23944	Ladies and gentlemen, it is a technical approach to resolve this amendment. Namely, the Committee on Justice accepted the text of the amendment by bringing two of its amendments to separate this proposal and incorporating its text in these two amendments. For these reasons, I withdraw this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23945	The MP withdrew the amendment, so he ceases to be the subject of discussion in particular. The People's MP Ljubodrag Grbic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Does any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on Justice and Administration has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 2a be added after Article 2. The amendment was discussed in the explanations of MPs Srda Sikimic and the previous speaker. On behalf of the promoter, Minister, Mr Batic, accepts this amendment. The 3rd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Tomović, Zarko Obradović, Zoran Andjelković, Radojko Petrovic, Slobodan Pavlovic, Joca Arsic, Rajko Baralić, Đura Lazić, Toma Busetic, Ljubisa Maravic, Branko Ružić, Hranislav Perić, Borisvoje Drakulović, Bora Stanimirović, Milan Jankovic, Miomir Ilic, Sreten Mitrović and Dragan Todorovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the applicants of the amendment, the word has been made by MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23946	Mrs. Comic, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected journalists, Mr. Minister, of course, we know if an amendment to Article 3 would be accepted. The SPS, if this whole chapter were then -- the organisation and jurisdiction of state authorities in countering organised crime -- would make no sense to the proponent. We propose to delete Article 3 because it defines: "The district public prosecutor's office in Belgrade for the territory of the Republic of Serbia is responsible for the handling of criminal acts under Article 2 of this law. The Belgrade District Public Prosecutor's Office is educated in the Special Department for the Prevention of Organized Crime (hereinafter referred to as the Special Prosecutor's Office) etc." We think it is unnecessary by special law to prescribe the internal organisation of state bodies in charge of fighting organised crime, since it is already regulated by other laws. The law on courts, the prosecutions and the Ministry of the Interior has been done to organise and implement procedures for appropriate crimes. We would believe that the special prosecutor and special prosecutor are a special organization, a special institution, if there was no member of the 5th to define that the special prosecutor is practically directly subordinated to the republican public prosecutor. This is why an important issue on the independence and special status of the special prosecutor and prosecutor is being disavowed. That is why we think it is important for this member to be deleted, and therefore the members who follow, because they would not make sense, because there is an attempt to give special importance to the Belgrade District Attorney's Office. In Serbia, there are district prosecutors who are not lagging behind this prosecution, except that this is in the capital and in some other sense there is a certain importance, which may be of some importance to something different; but other prosecutors have competent prosecutors, deputies, these people are ready to fight all forms of crime, including the one that is defined as organized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23947	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. The Defence and Security Committee has not accepted this amendment. The applicant for the amendment is not present. Does anyone else want to talk about the amendment? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Zoran Boskovic, Novica Đuraskovic and Branislav Grubaski together submitted to the 3rd amendment. The Defence and Security Committee has not accepted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? Here's a word Mr. Vladan Batic has.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23948	Just one brief explanation why the amendment is not acceptable. Because not some special organs are formed here, but everything remains within the framework of existing institutions and existing bodies. So the special prosecutor's office is a special department within the Belgrade District Public Prosecutor's Office, so that's why this amendment cannot be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23949	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 4th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj, and joint MPs Slobodan Tomović, Zarko Obradović, Zoran Andjelković, Radojko Petrovic, Slobodan Pavlovic, Joca Arsić, Rajko Baralić, Đura Lazić, Toma Busetic, Ljubisa Maravic, Branko Ružić, Hranislav Perić, Borisvoje Drakulović, Bora Stanimirović, Milan Janković, Miomir Ilic, Sreten Mitrović and Dragan Todorovic. The Defence and Security Committee has not accepted this amendment. Do any of the applicants of the amendment want a word? Please, the word has a National MP, Slobodan Tomovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23950	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, here, for the very reasons you mentioned earlier -- that this amendment that we are proposing should not be accepted, that Article 3 be deleted, so here we are once again trying to present an argument that makes us think that Articles 3 and 4 should be deleted. If we start from the fact that the existing legal acts relating to the prosecutions are not prohibited in any of their provisions, whether it is in the jurisdiction of the district or the republic, they are governed by the agreement between the Republic and other prosecutors, so if it is not prohibited anywhere, if these transactions can be redistributed within the prosecutor's office, if there is an organisational structure within it, and can, since it is not prohibited, then we do not see the need for some special law that we can now re-inauguration, that we want to make an institution out of it. Hence, the idea that a special law provides an opportunity for the establishment of a special prosecutor's office as a department within the D.A.'s office we don't think it should be particularly highlighted or particularly established by some law. It was our idea, not that these jobs shouldn't be done, because we absolutely are for everything that will help fight organised crime effectively. Now, that was the idea, and then a whole set of our next complaints, which relate to other members, which mentions the word special prosecutor, special prosecutor, etc. It only makes so much sense if we agree on this -- whether special legislation should regulate it. If not, then all this other stuff we talked about has the same explanation, and certainly the same fate. That's it. I'd still ask you, Mrs. Comic, not because I'm a prosecutor, but let's count ourselves, because even when the debate is the way it is, there has to be some quorum, let's see how many of us are in the O.R. We agreed to stay and do what the parliamentary majority asked us to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23951	I will remind the MP of the obligation to present the proposal calling for the provisions of the Rules of Procedure in an appropriate form in order to be accepted by the chairman. Regardless of the good relations in this assembly, part of the procedure can't be -- let's count ourselves; so it can't be. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic, Adam Urosevic and Zivko Selakovic. The Defence and Security Committee has not accepted this amendment. Do any of the applicants of the amendment want a word? The word has a folk MP Milos Lukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23952	Ladies and gentlemen, the Assembly Group of the Soviet Union has tabled an amendment to Article 4 concerning the way the special prosecutor is elected and jurisdictional. Members of the 4th and other members are unitedly mentioned by a special prosecutor, and it is said - the work of the special prosecutor is being handled by a special prosecutor for the repression of organised crime, etc.; the special prosecutor is being appointed by a republican prosecutor and all in this style. Our amendment intervenes in this and all the next members with a suggestion that, with the name of the special prosecutor, they add words -- and deputy special prosecutor. A few days ago, we discussed, and I hope that amendments to the Prosecutor's Law will be adopted, where the deputy prosecutors, practically their choice, appointment and resolution, are practically amended and consistent with the choice, appointment and resolution of prosecutors. We think this is a proper intervention. We also believe that it is necessary to intervene in accordance with the Public Prosecutor's Law, where the reasons for the termination of office or the resolution of a public prosecutor are prescribed, in such a way that the reasons for the resolution of prosecutors are laid down, and we have the opportunity to read that it is said that the special prosecutor is returning to his post after the resolution. If this solution is related to the reasons provided for by law, there is no possibility of returning to the prosecutor's post at all. In Article 4, paragraphs 6 and 7. The draft law provides for the possibility of discharge of a special prosecutor and before the expiry of the time on which he is appointed, without establishing specific reasons, with the obligation to return to his old duties. We don't think that's right and that this should be brought into line with the D.A.'s Law. The intervention is obviously well-intentioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23953	The word has a minister of justice, Mr Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23954	I have no doubt about the well-meaning nature of the intervention. However, the bill does not provide for the institution of deputy special prosecutor. The amendment cannot intervene in that direction. On the other hand, Article 6 of the proposed law has been told that the district attorney will pass a special act on the internal organisation and systematisation of jobs. As regards attitude 7, I think the amendment is rational, however, as explained by the Rules of Procedure, part of the amendment cannot be accepted, so I am in principle agreed; if possible through the Legislative Committee it could be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23955	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) The 4th Amendment is jointly attended by mid-national MPs Zoran Boskovic, Novica Djuraskovic and Branislav Grubački. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th Amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj and joint MPs Slobodan Tomović, Zarko Obradović, Zoran Angelković, Radojko Petrić, Slobodan Pavlovic, Joca Arsic, Rajko Baralić, Đura Lazić, Toma Busetic, Ljubisa Maravic, Branko Ružić, Hranislav Perić, Borisvoje Drakulović, Bora Stanimirović, Milan Janković, Miomir Ilic, Sreten Mitrović and Dragan Todorovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment, together with the correction, the MPs Ljubisa Kesic, Sima Radulović and Milos Lučić submitted. The Committee on Justice and Administration has adopted this amendment. On behalf of the applicants of the amendment, the word is made by MP Ljubisa Kesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23956	Mrs. Comic, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 5; this article says that the special prosecutor is only subordinated to the Republic Public Prosecutor. We have suggested that Article 5 reads as follows: "A special prosecutor has the rights and responsibilities of a public prosecutor. When it comes to the knowledge that a criminal case is involved in the cases provided for in Article 2 of this Regulation, the Special Prosecutor shall, in writing, address the Republic of Public Prosecutor, requesting him to be entrusted or transferred to him. On the request referred to in Article 2. The Republic's public prosecutor is required to decide within eight days." We have submitted this amendment by following, I think, the fundamental idea of the legislator to strengthen the role of the special prosecutor at all stages of the prosecution of criminal offences; therefore, he has a special relationship and special powers towards the police department, so I think it would be quite logical that he has an initiative in determining jurisdiction in the cases in which he is to act, and in accordance with Article 2 of this Regulation. In doing so, the obligation of the Republic Public Prosecutor to inform the Special Prosecutor in writing whether he will accept the jurisdiction of the Special Prosecutor, we believe that he is somewhat strengthening the responsibility of the Republic Public Prosecutor, because in that case, if he refuses to accept the Special Prosecutor's initiative in this way, he would prevent possible abuses and concealment. We are pleased that the Justice Committee has accepted this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23957	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) On behalf of the promoter of justice, Mr Vladan Batic, accepts this amendment. The 5th Amendment is jointly attended by mid-national MPs Zoran Boskovic, Novica Djuraskovic and Branislav Grubački. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic, Adam Urosevic and Zivko Selakovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? (Milos Lukic, from the post: Better for the minister to come out and accept this amendment. ) With a little breach of the Rules of Procedure, MP Milos Lukic from the post advises the minister to accept this amendment. It is my duty to pass on this little violation of the Rules of Procedure; however, the minister does not accept. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Tomović, Zarko Obradović, Zoran Andjelković, Radojko Petrovic, Slobodan Pavlovic, Joca Arsic, Rajko Baralić, Đura Lazić, Toma Busetic, Ljubisa Maravic, Branko Ružić, Hranislav Perić, Borisvoje Drakulović, Bora Stanimirović, Milan Jankovic, Miomir Ilic, Sreten Mitrović and Dragan Todorovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the applicants, does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Someone else wants a word? No, I don't. ) The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by the National Psolans Zoran Boskovic, Novica Djuraskovic and Branislav Grubački. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The same Article of the Sixth Amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. The applicant for the amendment is not present. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Tomović, Zarko Obradović, Zoran Andjelković, Radojko Petrovic, Slobodan Pavlovic, Joca Arsic, Rajko Baralić, Đura Lazić, Toma Busetic, Ljubisa Maravic, Branko Ružić, Hranislav Perić, Borisvoje Drakulović, Bora Stanimirović, Milan Jankovic, Miomir Ilic, Sreten Mitrović and Dragan Todorovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the applicants, does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment to Article 7 was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. The applicant for the amendment is not present. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment is jointly attended by MPs Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukić, Adam Urosevic and Zivko Selaković. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the applicants for the amendment, MP Milos Lukic. I ask the MPs to listen to the speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23958	Okay, you'll wake up, never mind. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, we're all on the verge so far, you almost accept one, the other, the third amendment, and how can I justify what I've stayed here and didn't go home? Take these others and we can split up right now. Article 7 is clear and says "Republic Public Prosecutor may, on a proposal from the Special Prosecutor, refer to the D.A.'s Special Prosecutor's Office or the deputy public prosecutor. "The reference shall be made for a maximum period of nine months, and may be extended by a decision of the Republic Public Prosecutor, with written consent addressed. What doesn't make sense here? We have a special prosecutor's election for two years. Let's refer the deputy or the prosecutor to nine months, and we can extend indefinitely. It's actually losing purpose. We suggested that it be another nine, it's a year and a half... And so on. (Vladan Batic, from the place: I accept. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23959	I find that on behalf of the promoter, the minister of justice accepted the amendment to Article 7 which was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic, Adam Urosevic and Zivko Selakovic. Members of the National Assembly Slobodan Tomović, Zarko Obradović, Zoran Andjelković, Radojko Petrovic, Slobodan Pavlovic, Joca Arsic, Rajko Baralić, Đura Lazić, Toma Busetic, Ljubisa Maravic, Branko Ružić, Hranislav Perić, Borisvoje Drakulović, Bora Stanimirović, Milan Jankovic, Miomir Ilic, Sreten Mitrović and Dragan Todorovic together. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the bearer? No, I don't. ( b) Does any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. The applicant for the amendment isn't here. Do any of the other authorized participants want a word? No, I don't. ) The next proposal is for subtitles above Articles 9 and 9 to be deleted. National MPs Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic, Adam Urosevic and Zivko Selakovic together submitted an amendment suggesting that the title should be "2. The Office for the Prevention of Organized Crime" and Article 9 are deleted. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. Is there anyone on behalf of the applicants withdrawing the amendment? Yeah. ) I find that this amendment has been withdrawn from the procedure. Members of the 9th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj and joint MPs Slobodan Tomović, Zarko Obradović, Zoran Angelković, Radojko Petrovic, Slobodan Pavlovic, Joca Arsic, Rajko Baralić, Đura Lazić, Toma Busetic, Ljubisa Maravic, Branko Ružić, Hanislav Perić, Borisvoje Drakulović, Bora Stanmirović, Milan Janković, Miomir Ilic, Sreten Mitrović and Dragan Todorovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the applicants, the word for the amendment has a People's MP, Radojko Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23960	Dear Presidency, honourable MPs, Mr Minister, on behalf of the SPS, along with a group of MPs, I have tabled an amendment to amend Article 9. This article says that a special service for the prevention of organised crime is being educated within the framework of the MUP. Paragraph 3 says the interior minister is setting up and disposing of an elder of the organised crime control service, and the amendment suggests erasing the words "with the obligation to obtain a special prosecutor's opinion. Why give so much authority to a special prosecutor, that he becomes all-powerful and all-knowing? How is it that the prosecutor knows the people of the Ministry more individually than the Minister of Resistance and the relevant services in the Ministry? On the other hand, this law does not comply with the laws governing the work of prosecutors and courts, such as it does not comply with the Constitution of the SRJ. Let's avoid creating a jurisdictional conflict between the D.A. and the D.A.'s office. It is unwarranted to give this special prosecutor advance certification, that he is all-knowing and infallible. You can't give that prosecutor such authority and advance trust, as if he were a Roman Pope, or a communist, Stalinist party, that he can't make a mistake. In the second part of the amendment, it is proposed to delete Article 4. In this view, the government predicted that the interior minister could determine that Gendarmere was involved in preventing and eliminating the crime of terrorism. Since the interior minister is also responsible under current regulations for determining that there is no reason to bring such a formulation into the law to prevent and detect acts of terrorism. Therefore, it really makes sense to delete this, as well as the part where the prosecutor gives consent whether or not the minister, or the Ministry, will put this man in charge of that service, their man they know. How would a special prosecutor know these people in the MUP know? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23961	Anyone else want a word? The word has a minister of justice in the government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23962	As in some previous cases, the problem is procedural, because the amendment has three positions. I think this objection regarding attitude 3 is rational and I think it's too much of a provision, but I don't know how technically it's possible, since there are two more parts of the amendment that can't be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23963	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment to Article 9 was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Boskovic, Novica Djuraskovic and Branislav Grubačiki. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? On behalf of the proponent, Minister of Justice, Mr Vladan Batic, accepts the amendment to Article 9. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic, Adam Urosevic and Zivko Selakovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. (Employor Milos Lukic, on behalf of the applicants of the amendment, withdraws the amendment. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. The applicant for the amendment is not present. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Alexander Trkulj. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10th of the amendment, the MPs Slobodan Tomović, Zarko Obradović, Zoran Andjelković, Radojko Petrovic, Slobodan Pavlovic, Joca Arsic, Rajko Baralić, Đura Lazić, Toma Busetic, Ljubisa Maravic, Branko Ružić, Hanislav Perić, Borisvoje Drakulović, Bora Stanimirović, Milan Jankovic, Miomir Ilic, Sreten Mitrović and Dragan Todorovic together. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone in the name of the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Does any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. The applicant for the amendment is not present. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic, Adam Urosevic and Zivko Selakovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the applicants of the amendment, the word has been made by MP Milos Lukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23964	In Article 11(2), the words "the Court of Appeal in Belgrade" are replaced by the words "the Supreme Court of Serbia", and the words "the Supreme Court of Serbia" are replaced by the words "the Constitutional Court of Serbia". What would that mean? The minister scared us all here a few days ago when he said that appeals courts needed 20,000 square meters of space, that equipment, personnel, etc. And in Article 22 of this law, we have a delay in the functioning of this law precisely because appeals courts will not begin to function until 31 March of next year. By adopting this amendment, practically this law becomes applicable after eight days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23965	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? The word has a minister of justice in the government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23966	The amendment has its logic, but it is not completed, so I don't know if it can intervene with the Legislative Committee; it stands until the beginning of the work of the appeals courts? That would be a complete amendment. So, it changes so much that the Supreme Court of Serbia will decide on complaints until the start of the work of the appeals courts. The start was extended by March 1st next year and could indeed remain an unresolved issue of a second-degree decision, i.e. complaints of first-degree decisions, who will decide? Therefore, if the legal and tensile order of the amendment can approve the Legislative Committee, the amendment has full logic; meaning, until the beginning of the work of the appeals courts.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23967	I remind you of the Rules of Procedure that we can accept or not only amendments in general. The word has a folk MP Milos Lukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23968	In short, I'll remind the minister, he just said about certain amendments -- we'll change when it's time. So I think it's more rational at this point to accept this amendment, without conditions, and when the Courts of Appeals are formed, we'll easily change this jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23969	The minister of justice, Mr. Vladan Batic, accepts this amendment. (Vladan Batic, from the post: If possible, it is more rational; therefore, it should be added "until the beginning of the work of the appeals courts".) We are not present with the chairman of the Legislative Committee, we could ask the chairman of the Legislative Committee to comply. He has the word Justice Minister, Mr Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23970	I'm sorry, just one little clarification. The law on the regulation of courts provides that, due to financial difficulties, the start of the work of appeals courts, which are second-degree courts, which are brought to judgments of municipal and county courts, are to be handled by appeals courts, since the beginning of their work is delayed until 1 March of the following year, then we now have one vacuum - what if a first-degree ruling, to whom will the people, the accused, or their defenders, appeal to a first-degree verdict? The Court of Appeal has not yet begun to work, and deadlines under the Code of Criminal Procedure are limited. So until then, the person responsible for handling complaints is the Supreme Court of Serbia. If such legal and technical order is possible, it shall be fully rational, logical and in accordance with the applicable Law on the Regulation of Courts.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23971	So the Justice Minister didn't accept the amendment, and I'm scheduled to hold a session of the Legislative Committee tomorrow at 11 a.m. to try to conduct a legal-technical order. The 12th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Tomović, Zarko Obradović, Zoran Andjelković, Radojko Petrovic, Slobodan Pavlovic, Joca Arsic, Rajko Baralić, Đura Lazić, Toma Busetic, Ljubisa Maravic, Branko Ružić, Hranislav Perić, Borisvoje Drakulović, Bora Stanimirović, Milan Jankovic, Miomir Ilic, Sreten Mitrović and Dragan Todorovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? No, I don't. Is anyone else applying for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. He's not there. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment in the same text, the MPs Slobodan Tomović, Zarko Obradović, Zoran Andjelković, Radojko Petrić, Slobodan Pavlovic, Joca Arsić, Rajko Baralić, Đura Lazić, Toma Busetic, Ljubisa Maravić, Branko Ružić, Hranislav Perić, Borisvoje Drakulović, Bora Stanimirović, Milan Jankovic, Miomir Ilic, Sreten Mitrić and Dragan Todorovic and joint MPs Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukić, Adam Urošević and Zivko Selaković submitted. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. Vojislav Seselj is not present. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. Vojislav Seselj is not present. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Ljubisa Kesic, Sima Radulović and Milos Lučić. The Committee on Justice and Administration has adopted this amendment. The Minister of Justice has accepted this amendment. So the government and the Justice and Administration Committee have accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Ljubisa Kesic, Sima Radulovic and Milos Lucic submitted together to the 15th amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has adopted this amendment. The minister of justice also accepts this amendment. The 15th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic, Adam Urosevic and Zivko Selakovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. Does a representative of the applicants of the amendment want a word? The word is from MP Zivko Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23972	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, the amendment of the MP group of the Serbian Unity Party reads: in Article 15, point 1 of the words "to those associated with them, in accordance with the act adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia", is replaced by the words "members of the family and persons living in a joint household with a person acting in office". Item 3 is deleted. As from the authority and responsibilities of a person who performs certain functions, tasks and tasks in accordance with this law, and not a government act, it is necessary to establish and appoint a circle of the person for whom the data on the property is required. The proposed solution in Article 15(3). The bill for selected persons to perform significant tasks is subject to the proposed way of security checks and checks on the property is considered inappropriate. I don't think there's anything wrong with article 15. We simply wanted to explain that chain, so we said it was members of a rope family and persons living in a joint household.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23973	Does anyone else sign up for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. Vojislav Seselj is not present. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the National Assembly Slobodan Tomović, Zarko Obradović, Zoran Andjelković, Radojko Petrovic, Slobodan Pavlovic, Joca Arsic, Rajko Baralić, Đura Lazić, Toma Busetic, Ljubisa Maravic, Branko Ružić, Hranislav Perić, Borisvoje Drakulović, Bora Stanimirović, Milan Jankovic, Miomir Ilic, Sreten Mitrović and Dragan Todorovic together. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. Does a representative of the applicants of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. Vojislav Seselj is not present. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic, Adam Urosevic and Zivko Selakovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. The representative of the applicants shall withdraw the amendment to Article 16. Member of the 17th Amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. Vojislav Seselj is not present. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Slobodan Tomović, Zarko Obradović, Zoran Andjelkovic, Radojko Petrovic, Slobodan Pavlovic, Joca Arsic, Rajko Baralić, Đura Lazić, Toma Busetic, Ljubisa Maravic, Branko Ružić, Hranislav Perić, Borisvoje Drakulović, Bora Stanimirović, Milan Jankovic, Miomir Ilic, Sreten Mitrović and Dragan Todorovic together. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. The word is wanted by MP Slobodan Tomovic, representative of the applicants for the amendment to Article 17.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23974	Dear Mrs Micic, Mr Minister, the bill under consideration reads: "The person who performs the function, or who performs the tasks and tasks in the special organisational units of this law have the right to pay which cannot be higher than the triple amount of salary that would be achieved on the function, or the jobs from which they have entered into those organisational units. The salaries of the first member's members shall be governed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. "We propose that Article 17 be changed and read as follows: "A person who performs functions, i.e. performs tasks and tasks in special organisational units under this law, have the right to an insurance internship with an increased duration and by having 12 months of work in special organisational units accounted for as a 16-month period of insurance." So, we believe that these persons, who will deal with particularly dangerous, delicate, complex jobs, should be recognised the right to an unfettered working internship, and we do not think it is a matter of Parliament and the law to deal with whether they will have two or three times the salary; let the government and the competent ministry worry about that, because we have established some frameworks in the budget and let them assess that would be worth it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23975	The Minister of Justice, Mr Vladan Batic, called for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23976	What has been tabled in this amendment is covered by a fully identical provision of Article 18. It's a bill of law. So it's a certified job internship with the same duration of 16 months. Maybe there's been some mistake in writing the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23977	No more sign-ins for the word. National MP Vojislav Seselj and joint MPs Slobodan Tomović, Zarko Obradović, Zoran Angelković, Radojko Petrovic, Slobodan Pavlovic, Joca Arsić, Rajko Baralić, Đura Lazić, Toma Busetic, Ljubisa Maravic, Branko Ružić, Hranislav Perić, Borisvoje Drakulović, Bora Stanmirović, Milan Janković, Miomir Ilic, Sreten Mitrović and Dragan Todorovic submitted the 18th amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. Is anyone applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic, Adam Urosevic and Zivko Selakovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone sign up for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone sign up for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Tomović, Zarko Obradović, Zoran Andjelković, Radojko Petrovic, Slobodan Pavlovic, Joca Arsic, Rajko Baralić, Đura Lazić, Toma Busetic, Ljubisa Maravic, Branko Ružić, Hranislav Perić, Borisvoje Drakulović, Bora Stanimirović, Milan Jankovic, Miomir Ilic, Sreten Mitović and Dragan Todorovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone sign up for a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Slobodan Tomović, Zarko Obradović, Zoran Andjelkovic, Radojko Petrovic, Slobodan Pavlovic, Joca Arsic, Rajko Baralić, Đura Lazić, Toma Busetic, Ljubisa Maravic, Branko Ružić, Hranislav Perić, Borisvoje Drakulović, Bora Stanimirović, Milan Jankovic, Miomir Ilic, Sreten Mitović and Dragan Todorovic together. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone sign up for a word? No, I don't. ) The Minister of Justice accepted this amendment. The government has accepted the amendment. It's not an integral part, because he didn't accept the board. National MP Vojislav Seselj submitted to the 20th amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone sign up for a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Ljubodrag Grbić tabled an amendment proposing to add a new chapter 7 and a new article 21. National MP Ljublad Grbic withdraws the amendment. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. He's not there. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone sign up for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Sikimic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. The word has an amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23978	Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment to Article 21 provides for a practical mark, the addition that in the proceedings for criminal offences under Article 2 of this Act, the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act will be applied, for the simple reason that it is a predetermining and referring norm for those who will apply this law, given that in certain provisions, the issues which regulate this law, such as the matters of local jurisdiction, will be affected, and then we leave a dilemma of the position of the defendant, the defender, etc. We're only proposing to specify and clarify the text for application, but at this point we don't know if it exists.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23979	Here you are, the word has a minister of justice, Mr. Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23980	The amendment of a respected counterpart, Sikimic, would be rational not to provide for the adoption of a special law that would in some way derogate the provisions of the Federal Code of Criminal Procedure; without the adoption of that special law, this law would remain a dead letter on paper. Therefore, the procedure will be governed by a special law, so that we should not cement that it will be under the CAP.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23981	National MP Srdjan Sikimic withdrew the amendment to Article 21. National MP Vojislav Seselj submitted to the 22nd amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone sign up for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Sikimic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. The applicant of the amendment wants a word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23982	This amendment practically resolves the dilemma which was mentioned earlier in the application of Article 11 of the proposed text and points to the provisions of the Law on the Regulation of Courts; it is added that in the transitional and final provisions of that Act, since the provisions of the Law on the formation of Courts of Appeal have been postponed, that by 1 March 2003, the works referred to in Article 1 shall be subject to suspension. 2. of this law is applied by the Law of Courts, the one we have changed. So, we are solving the dilemma and we are removing the dilemma that was with Article 11, so the adoption of this amendment would also drop the need for harmonisation on the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-17-0.u23983	Justice Minister accepts Srdjan Sikimic's amendment to article 22. Does this mean that there is no need to meet the Legislative Committee. So there's no board meeting tomorrow at 11:00. So there's a need for the Legislative Committee. Well, then there's still a session of the Legislative Committee at 11.00 p.m. (Vladan Batic, from the post: There are several amendments that are rational. ) Since we have completed a search of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the representative, Dr Vladan Batic, the minister of justice, want the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Short notice on item 12 of the agenda: - Proposal for a decision on the appointment of members of the Committee on Reconstruction and Development of the Sremski Karlovac. National MP Ivan Andric, who submitted the motion for a decision by letter of 16 July 2002, informed the National Assembly that, in agreement with Article 139 and regarding Article 156. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, withdraws from the procedure a proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Committee on Reconstruction and Development of the Sremski Karlovac. Ladies and gentlemen, we'd like to conclude this debate at the Fifth Extraordinary Session and schedule a voting day tomorrow, so Thursday, 11:30 p.m. Council of the Legislative Committee at 1100 hours. Good-bye and good-bye. Since the National Assembly has conducted a shakedown of the draft law on broadcasting, in principle and in particular, we are moving to a decision. I put the draft law on broadcasting, in principle. I conclude the vote and I find that 130, against 34, were not detained, were not voted by 3, out of 167 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the draft law on broadcasting, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I remind you that the following MPs have withdrawn their amendments, and that is: - written by Branislav Grubački on Article 83, paragraph 5; Dusan Cvetkovic on Article 35 and Branislav Kovacevic on Articles 78, 83, 87 and 89. At the meeting of the Committee on Culture and Information: Branislav Gručaki on Article 47 and Branislav Kovacevic on Article 89; - at the session of the Legislative Committee Velimir Simonović on Article 40 with correction; - during the search of the Bill in Details: Zlata Djerić on Article 67 and Velimir Simonović on Article 75. I also remind you: - that the Legislative Committee rejected the amendments of the People's MPs: Vojislav Seselj to Article 25; Tome Busetic, Joce Arsic, Milos Nesovic and Sreten Mitrovica to Article 53: Tome Busetic, Velimir Živojinović, Joce Arsic, Ljubisa Marvic, Dragan Jovanovic and Sreten Mitrovica to Article 94 and Rajko Baralić, Tome Busetic and Bora Stanimirovic to Article 96. - that an integral part of the bill became amendments of the People's MPs: Ivan Andric on Article 29; Branislav Grubaski on Article 81, with correction and Cedomir Jovanovic on Articles 114, 115, 116 and 121. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Toma Busetic, Joca Arsic, Milos Nesovic and Sreten Mitrovic. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and I find that 34, against 128, were not detained, did not vote 7, out of 169 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Vojislav Seselj submitted to the 3rd amendment. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and find that 36, against 127, the abstentions were not, did not vote 9, out of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 3rd Amendment were submitted to the same text by MPs Attila Juhas and Branislav Grubaski. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and I find that 34 against 93 abstentions did not vote 39 out of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Milos Nesovic, Branko Ružic and Rajko Baralic submitted to the 4th amendment. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and I find that 35, against 128, were not detained, did not vote 9, of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 4th amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Velimir Simonovic. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote, and I find that 40 against 122 abstentions were not voted 9 out of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Adam Urosevic together submitted to the 4th amendment. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote. For 36, against 128, the abstentions, did not vote 7, a total of 171. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Milos Nesovic, Branko Ružic and Rajko Baralic submitted the 5th amendment together. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote. For 37, against 127, the abstentions were not, did not vote 8, a total of 172. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote. For 31, against 129 abstentions, there was no 12, a total of 172. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Milos Nesovic, Branko Ružic and Rajko Baralic together submitted the 6th amendment. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote. For 35, against 130, the abstentions are gone, not 9 voted, a total of 174. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Adam Urosevic together submitted the 8th amendment. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote. For 35, against 126, the abstentions, did not vote 13, a total of 174. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj.. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote. For 30, against 122, the abstentions were not, not voted 22, a total of 174. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Radojko Petrovic, Zoran Andjelkovic, Velimir Zivojinovic, Milos Nesovic, Rajko Baralic, Nebojsa Jovic and Dusan Cvetkovic. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote. For 27, against 125, the abstentions, did not vote 23, a total of 175. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Vojislav Seselj once proposed to amend the name of the supertitle above Articles 9 and 9. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote. For 10, v 123, abstention one, did not vote 41, a total of 175. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Milos Nesovic, Branko Ružic and Rajko Baralic together submitted the 9th amendment. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote. For 35, against 122 abstentions, there was no 18 vote, a total of 175. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Rajko Baralic, Đura Lazic, Jovan Todorovic, Dragan Jovanovic and Branko Ruzic together proposed that the title above Article 10 and Article 10 be deleted by the Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote. For 29, v. 127, abstention one, did not vote 18, a total of 175. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Rajko Baralic, Đura Lazic, Jovan Todorovic, Dragan Jovanovic and Branko Ruzic. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote. For 29, against 122 abstentions, no vote was made 24, a total of 175. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 13th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Adam Urosevic. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote. For 30, against 127, the abstentions were not, was not voted 17, a total of 174. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Vojislav Seselj proposed, with one amendment, that the title be deleted above Articles 14 and 14. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote. For 13, against 128, with no abstentions, no 33, a total of 174. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Rajko Baralic, Đura Lazic, Jovan Todorovic, Dragan Jovanovic and Branko Ruzic. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote. For 27, against 116, there are no abstentions, no vote 29, a total of 172. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote. For 26, against 127, the abstentions are gone, no vote is 20, a total of 173. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 17th Amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Milos Nesovic, Joca Arsic and Milan Stankovic. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for 25, against 124, there was no government, there was no 24 vote, of a total of 173 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Velimir Simonovic. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for 34, against 112, one abstention, was not voted 26, out of a total of 173 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Velimir Simonovic. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for 37, against 120, there were no abstentions, there were no 16 votes, of a total of 173 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Vojislav Seselj submitted to the 19th amendment. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for 36, against 120, there were no abstentions, there were no 17 votes, of a total of 173 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 20th amendment was submitted by MP Velimir Simonovic. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for 15, against 117, there were no abstentions, there were no 40 votes, of a total of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Vojislav Seselj proposed, by one amendment, to amend the title of the supertitle above Articles 21 and 21. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for 29, against 118, there were no abstentions, there was no vote of 23, out of 170 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 21st Amendment were submitted jointly by MPs Toma Busetic, Joca Arsic, Milos Nesovic and Sreten Mitrovic. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for 35, against 121 abstentions, there was no vote of 15, out of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Vojislav Seselj submitted to the 22nd amendment. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for 29, against 120, there were no abstentions, there were no 22 votes, of a total of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Vojislav Seselj submitted to the 23rd amendment. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for 22, against 120, there were no abstentions, 29 did not vote, out of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Velimir Simonovic. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: 34 against 113 abstentions did not vote 22, out of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Kesic. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: 29 against 101 abstentions did not vote 38, out of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Rajko Baralic, Đura Lazic, Jovan Todorovic, Dragan Jovanovic and Branko Ruzic. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for 36, against 124, there were no abstentions, there were no 11 votes, out of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd Amendment was submitted jointly by the MPs Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukish and Adam Urosevic. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for 29, against 112, there were no abstentions, there were no 30 votes, of a total of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Vojislav Seselj submitted to the 24th amendment. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for 27, there were no abstentions against 117, there were no 27 votes, of a total of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 24th Amendment were submitted by MP Velimir Simonovic. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: 36, against 106, the two abstentions, did not vote 27, out of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 24th Amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Andric. The Committee on Culture and Information and a representative of the motionors at the meeting of the Committee adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I am aware that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. I put the amendments tabled by MPs Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Adam Urosevic on Article 25. The committee responsible and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm closing the vote. For 27, against 117 abstentions, there was no vote of 27, out of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I would like to put the amendments tabled by MPs Toma Busetic, Joca Arsic, Milos Nesovic and Sreten Mitrovic. The committee responsible and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm closing the vote. For 32, against 120, the abstentions, did not vote 19, out of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj to article 26. The committee responsible and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm closing the vote. For 30, against 123 abstentions, there was no 18 vote, out of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments tabled together by MPs Rajko Baralic, Branko Ružic, Joca Arsic and Radojko Petrovic to vote. The committee responsible and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm closing the vote. For 34, against 124 abstentions, there was no vote 14 out of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 27th Amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote. For 29, against 124, a abstentioned one, did not vote 19, out of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments tabled by MPs Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Adam Urosevic on Article 27. The committee responsible and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm closing the vote. For 31, against 120, the abstentions were not voted 20, out of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to article 28 tabled by MP Vojislav Seselj. The committee responsible and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm closing the vote. For 20, against 123 abstentions, 29 of the 172 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I would like to vote on the amendments tabled by MP Vojislav Seselj on 29th. The committee responsible and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm closing the vote. For 10, against 122 abstentions, there was no 39 vote, out of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 30th Amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. The committee responsible and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm closing the vote. For 11, against 126 abstentions, they did not vote 34, out of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj to article 31. The committee responsible and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm closing the vote. For 14, against 123 abstentions, they did not vote 34, out of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj to article 32. The committee responsible and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm closing the vote. For 10, against 119 abstentions, they did not vote 42, out of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting on the vote of amendments submitted together by MPs Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Adam Urosevic on Article 32. The committee responsible and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm closing the vote. For 30, against 117 abstentions, they did not vote 24 out of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj to article 34. The committee responsible and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm closing the vote. For 13, against 120, the abstentions were not voted 38, out of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Ivan Andric submitted to the 34th amendment. The Committee on Culture and Information has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The applicant's representative did not accept this amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote. For 51, against 93, with five abstentions, they did not vote 22, out of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the 35th joint vote by MPs Dusan Cvetkovic, Bora Stanimirovic and Dragan Todorovic. The committee responsible and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm closing the vote. For 31, against 118, a abstentioned one, did not vote 21, out of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj to article 35. The committee responsible and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm closing the vote. For 11, against 116 abstentions, they did not vote 44, out of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 36th Amendment was submitted by MP Velimir Simonovic. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for 39, against 112, I abstain one, did not vote 18, out of 170 MPs. I find that the National Assembly does not accept this amendment. Member of the 39th Amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for 9, against 116, the abstentions, did not vote 46, out of a total of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly does not accept this amendment. National MPs Rajko Baralić, Branko Ružić, Joca Arsic and Radojko Petrovic submitted to the 41st amendment. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for 30, against 112, the abstentioned was not voted 29, out of a total of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly does not accept this amendment. Member of the 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for 11, against 120, the abstentions were not voted 40, out of a total of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly does not accept this amendment. The 43rd amendment was submitted by MP Velimir Simonovic. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for 38, against 104, abstentioned yen, did not vote 28, out of a total of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly does not accept this amendment. National MP Vojislav Seselj submitted to the 43rd amendment. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for 16, against 120, the abstentions were not voted 35, out of a total of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly does not accept this amendment. The 47th amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for 50, against 101, abstentioned that it did not vote 18, out of a total of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly does not accept this amendment. Members of the 48th amendment were submitted jointly by MPs Rajko Baralić, Branko Ružić, Joca Arsic and Radojko Petrovic. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for 33, against 116, the abstentions was not voted 22, out of a total of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly does not accept this amendment. The 49th Amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Rajko Baralić, Branko Ružić, Joca Arsic and Radojko Petrovic. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for 30, against 123 abstentions, there is no 18 vote, of a total of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly does not accept this amendment. Members of the 52nd amendment were submitted by MPs Toma Busetic, Joca Arsic, Milos Nesovic and Sreten Mitrovic. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for 32, against 114, the abstentions, did not vote 25, out of a total of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly does not accept this amendment. The 56th Amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Milos Nesovic, Joca Arsic and Milan Stankovic. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for 33, against 106, the abstentions were not voted 32, out of a total of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly does not accept this amendment. The 56th Amendment was submitted by MP Velimir Simonovic. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for 39, against 109, abstentions two, did not vote 21, out of a total of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly does not accept this amendment. The 59th Amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Živodarka Dacin, Ljubomir Mucic and Rade Bajic. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for 30, against 112, the abstentions, there was no vote of 20, of a total of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly does not accept this amendment. Member of the 59th Amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for 14, against the 119, the abstentions, there were no 38 votes, out of a total of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly does not accept this amendment. Members of the 61st Amendment were submitted jointly by MPs Živodarka Dacin, Ljubomir Mucic and Rade Bajic. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for 32, against 116, the abstentions, did not vote 23, out of a total of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly does not accept this amendment. Member of the 64th Amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for 17, against 118, the abstentions were not voted 36, out of a total of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly does not accept this amendment. Members of the 66th Amendment were submitted jointly by MPs Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Adam Urosevic. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for 31, against 120, the abstentions were not voted 20, out of a total of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly does not accept this amendment. I put the amendments to the 66th Joint Members Radojko Petrovic, Zoran Andjelkovic, Velimir Živojinović, Milos Nesovic, Rajko Baralić, Nebojsa Jović and Dusan Cvetkovic. The committees and representatives of the fartters have not accepted and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I conclude the vote and I find that for 34, against 120, one was abstention, was not voted 16 out of a total of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj to article 67. The committees responsible and the proposing representative have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I conclude the vote and find that for 29, against 118, the abstentions were not, was not voted on by 22, a total of 169 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted by MP Velimir Simonovic to article 67. The committees responsible and the proposing representative have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I conclude the vote and I find that for 36, against 105, one was abstention, not voting 28, a total of 170 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting amendments to the vote, which were tabled together by MPs Milos Nesovic, Joca Arsic and Milan Stankovic, on Article 67. The committees and representatives of the fartters have not accepted and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I conclude the vote and find that for 31, there were no abstentions, there were no 21 votes, out of 169 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj to article 68. The committees responsible and the proposing representative have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I am concluding the vote and I am saying that for 11, against 114, there is one abstention, no vote 44, a total of 170 MPs are present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the 68th joint vote by MPs Marko Petrovic, Zoran Ćirkovic, Zlata Đeric, Miodrag Stamenković and Radic Jokovic. The committees and representatives of the fartters have not accepted, and the Legislative Committee has not adopted this amendment. I conclude the vote and I find that for 34, against 91, there were no abstentions, there were no 43 votes, out of 168 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the vote, which was tabled by MP Zivojin Stijepic, on article 68. The committees responsible and the proposing representative have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I conclude the vote and find that for 42, against 103, two abstentions, were not voted on by 22, a total of 169 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj to article 71. The committees responsible and the proposing representative have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I conclude the vote and I find that for 14, against 120, the abstentions were not, there was no 35 vote, a total of 169 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted by MP Zivojin Stijepic to article 72. The committees responsible and the proposing representative have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I conclude the vote and I find that for 42, against 96, one was abstentioned, no vote was 30, a total of 169 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments, which were submitted together by MPs Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Adam Urosevic, on Article 73. The committees and representatives of the fartters have not accepted and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I conclude the vote and find that for 33, against 115, there were no abstentions, there were no 21 votes, out of 169 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the vote, which was tabled by MP Zivojin Stijepic, on Article 73. The committees responsible and the proposing representative have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I conclude the vote and I find that for 42, against 93, one was abstentioned, no vote was 33, a total of 169 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj to article 67. The committees responsible and the proposing representative have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I conclude the vote and find that for 29, against 118, the abstentions were not, was not voted on by 22, a total of 169 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj to article 74. The committees responsible and the proposing representative have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I conclude the vote and find that for 9, against 118, there were no abstentions, there was no 42 vote, a total of 169 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting on the vote for amendments tabled by MP Branislav Grubaski on article 76. The committees responsible and the proposing representative have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I am concluding the vote and I find that for 37, against 87, three were abstentions, no voting 42, a total of 169 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted to article 78 by MP Vojislav Seselj. The committees responsible and the proposing representative have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee has not adopted this amendment. I am concluding the vote and I am realizing that for 8, v 120, there was one abstention, no vote of 40, a total of 169 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted by MP Velimir Simonovic to article 78. The committees responsible and the proposing representative have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I conclude the vote and I find that for 45, against 100, one was abstentioned, not voted 23, a total of 169 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Branislav Kovacevic submitted to the 78th amendment. The Committee on Culture and Information and a representative of the motionors at the meeting of the Committee accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. I put the amendments to the 78th vote together by MPs Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Adam Urosevic. The committees and representatives of the fartters have not accepted and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I conclude the vote and I find that for 29, against 114, one was abstentioned, was not voted 25, out of 169 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted to article 79 by MP Vojislav Seselj. The committees responsible and the proposing representative have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I conclude the vote and find that for 17, against 114 abstentions, there were no, no 38 votes, a total of 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting on the vote for amendments, which were submitted by MP Velimir Simonovic to article 79, with correction. The committees responsible and the proposing representative have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I am concluding the vote and I realize that for 36, against 103, there were three abstentions, no vote of 27, a total of 169 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 79th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Rajko Baralic, Toma Busetic and Bora Stanimirovic. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I am concluding the vote and I am saying that in favour of vote 7, against 111, abstention 1, 30 of the 169 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Vojislav Seselj submitted to the 80th Amendment. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I am concluding the vote and I am realizing that in favour of vote 9, there were no abstentions against 116, 43 out of 168 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Velimir Simonovic. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and I find that 39, v 102, abstention 5, did not vote 22, out of 1168 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by the peoples, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Adam Urosevic. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and find that the 27, against 112, were not abstentions, did not vote 28 out of 167 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP Vojislav Seselj submitted to the 81st Amendment. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I am concluding the vote and I am realizing that in favour of vote 10 against 116, abstention 1, it did not vote 41, out of 168 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Radojko Petrovic, Zoran Andjelkovic, Velimir Zivojinovic, Milos Nesovic, Rajko Baralic, Nebojsa Jovic and Dusan Cvetkovic submitted together to the 81st amendment. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote, and I find that 30 against 114 abstentions were not voted on by 23, out of 167 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP Vojislav Seselj submitted to the 82nd amendment. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and I find that 12, against 116 abstentions, were not voted 39, out of 167 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8rd Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Vojsilav Seselj. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote, and I find that 10 against 114 abstentions were not voted 43, out of 167 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 83rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Adam Urosevic. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and I find that 26 against 111 abstentions were not voted 30 out of 167 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Radojko Petrovic, Zoran Andjelkovic, Velimir Zivojinovic, Milos Nesovic, Rajko Baralic, Nebojsa Jovic and Dusan Cvetkovic. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and I find that 31, against 114 abstentions, were not voted 21 out of 166 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 83rd amendment was filed by MP Branislav Gruabski with a correction. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and I find that 40 against 94, abstention 2, were not voted by 32, out of 168 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8rd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Radosavljevic. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and find that 33 against 93, abstention 2, was not voted by 39, out of 167 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 83rd amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Kovacevic. The Committee on Culture and Information has adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The applicant's representative did not accept this amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and find that 78 against 62, the abstentions were not voted 28 out of 168 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 84th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Rajko Baralic, Toma Busetic and Bora Stanimirovic. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and I find that 38 against 110, the abstentions were not voted 19 out of 167 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Toma Busetic, Velimir Zivojinovic, Joca Arsic, Ljubisa Maravic, Dragan Jovanovic and Sreten Mitrovic, together, submitted an amendment proposing an amendment to article 85's title. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and I find that 34, against 115, were not detained, had not voted 19, out of 168 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 85th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Toma Busetic, Velimir Zivojinovic, Joca Arsic, Ljubisa Maravic, Dragn Jovanovic and Sreten Mitrovic. The Committee on Culture and Information, the proposing representative and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and find that 34, v 109, abstention 1, did not vote 23, out of 167 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Toma Busetic, Velimir Zivojinovic, Joca Arsic, Ljubisa Maravic, Dragan Jovanovic and Sreten Mitrovic together submitted an amendment proposing a change in the title of supremacy over Article 86. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote. For 33, against 109 abstentions, no vote was made 25, a total of 167. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 87th Amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote. For 11, against 107, with no abstentions, no vote was taken by 49, a total of 167. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Branislav Kovacevic was submitted to the 87th amendment. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote. For 23, against 105, with two abstentions, not 37, a total of 167. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Velimir Simonovic. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote. For 34, against 111, abstention three, no vote 18, a total of 166. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 87th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Toma Busetic, Velimir Zivojinovic, Joca Arsic, Ljubisa Maravic, Dragan Jovanovic and Sreten Mitrovic. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote. For 32, against 110, the abstentions, did not vote 23, a total of 165. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 90th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Toma Busetic, Velimir Zivojinovic, Joca Arsic, Ljubisa Maravic, Dragan Jovanovic and Sreten Mitrovic. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote. For 28, against 111 abstentions, there was no vote of 27, a total of 166. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 92 of the amendment, MP Vojislav Seselj submitted. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote. For 8, against 113, there are no abstentions, no vote is 45, a total of 166. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj to Article 94. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote. For seven against 112, the abstentions are gone, no vote is 46, a total of 165. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Branislav Grubaski tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 94 be added after article 94. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote. For 37, against 75, with two abstentions, it didn't vote 51, a total of 165. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 95th Amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote. For 10, against 109 abstentions, there was no vote 45, a total of 164. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 96th Amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote. For 10, against 111, abstention one, did not vote 43, a total of 165. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were submitted to Article 96 by MPs Attila Juhas and Branislav Grubaski in the same text. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote. For 35, against 84, with two abstentions, did not vote 43, a total of 164. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National delegates Dusan Cvetkovic, Milan Jankovic and Hranislav Peric jointly proposed that Chapter VI and Articles 97, 98, 99, 100, 101 and 102 be deleted. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote. For 29, against 108, the abstentions are gone, no vote is 28, a total of 165. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj to Article 104. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote. For 9, against 106, the abstentions are gone, not 51, a total of 166. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Adam Urosevic together submitted the 105th amendment. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote. For 28, v. 107, abstention one, did not vote 29, a total of 165. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting on the vote of amendments submitted jointly by MPs Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Adam Urosevic on Article 106. I conclude the vote: for 28, against 108, there were no abstentions, there were no 30 votes, of a total of 166 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments submitted to article 107 by MP Vojislav Seselj. I conclude the vote: for 11, against 110, one abstention, was not voted 44, out of 166 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the 108th vote together by MPs Dusan Cvetkovic, Milan Jankovic and Hranislav Peric. I conclude the vote: for 31, against 112, there were no abstentions, there were no 23 votes, of a total of 166 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the 108th vote together by MPs Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Adam Urosevic. I conclude the vote: for 30, against 110, the abstention one did not vote 25, out of 166 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments, which were tabled together by MPs Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Adam Urosevic, on article 113. I conclude the vote: 31, against 105, four abstentions, did not vote 26, out of 166 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put to vote amendments submitted by MP Velimir Simonovic to article 113. I conclude the vote: 43, against 99, with two abstentions, did not vote 23, out of 167 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting on the vote of amendments tabled together by MPs Radojko Petrovic, Zoran Andjelkovic, Velimir Živojnović, Milos Nesovic, Rajko Baralić, Nebojsa Jović and Dusan Cvetkovic. I conclude the vote: for 31, against 116, there were no abstentions, there was no vote of 20, of a total of 167 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting amendments to the 120th vote by MP Branislav Grubaski. I conclude the vote: 36 against 84 abstentions did not vote 44, out of 167 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I would like to put the amendments tabled together by MPs Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Adam Urosevic. I conclude the vote: for 29, against 112, there were no abstentions, there were no 26 votes, out of 167 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I'm putting the draft law on broadcasting in general. I conclude the vote: for 117, against 44, abstention one, did not vote 6, a total of 168 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on broadcasting, in general. I'm setting a break until 2.30 and I'm asking you all to be present at that time. [[Applause]]
