ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-09-0.u19823	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, by signing the Agreement ceases to exist in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Serbia-Montenegro has given up a common name to try to preserve the common state. I would say that, according to the agreement on the redecoration of Serbia-Montenegro's relations, we will be left without Yugoslavia on behalf of and without a common state in reality. What we're offering is the state at the beginning. It will take up to three years, as it is written, with the European Union's threat that one who decides on a referendum will lose its support and sympathy. This agreement is the result of pressure from the international community. We are neither a state nor an alliance, a solution without a solution. When negotiators have no solution, they accept what others offer. The Socialist Party of Serbia believes that citizens of Serbia-Montenegro have the right to decide whether they want a common state. There is a minimum of power that every common state must have to benefit from and be of interest to the Republic of Member States. Otherwise, it would be a fictitious common state, which could make life worse for both of us. I'm not an optimist, and I don't believe a country like this will survive three years. At the end of that time, independent Serbia and independent Montenegro will most likely exist. What is offered in the initial foundations of the Federation Palace is personal to everything but the common state. Some of her organs are rotating, some are delegated, some are undefined. Some state institutions will operate from Belgrade, others from Podgorica, and most of them are being shut down. In fact, the economic part of the agreement shows that the negotiators de facto have made a decision on a peaceful divergence. It is clear that a state with two central banks, two currencies and two customs cannot be one state, so this solution can take a transparently two years, three can, but it is definitely clear that it is going towards Montenegro's independence and perhaps Serbia. We Socialists disagree with this and advocate a modern and efficient common state as a Federation that, in addition to a unique international subjectivity based on an age-old continuity, the single state must have: a single system and defence policy; foreign affairs; a single system of human rights protection; a single natural space; a single economic space, which means total freedom of movement of goods, services, workers and capital; freedom to establish businesses and banks; one money, one central bank, a single customs system; a single customs tariff; fiscal federalism, a value tax and a federal budget with significant own resources. For all the above, it is at least incorrect to use the term "common market" in the wording. Instead of the state constitution, there will be a constitutional charter that touches everyone, so I believe that all significant parliamentary political parties on a parity principle should be represented in the drafting of a constitutional charter and that the prepared constitutional charter is directed to the citizens of Serbia-Montenegro for a statement through the referendum, given the fact that citizens are the holders of the sovereignty of the state. If that is not the case, the question arises whether politicians can, behind closed doors and in such a narrow circle of people, play with the will of the people and with such a fateful issue as the state. From what we've been offered, there is an inevitable end to the state that we had and that until yesterday was called Yugoslavia. Of the functional common state there is nothing and the agreement is only a verification of the existing state, with a series of restrictions. It will remain that which is achieved. The inevitable end was directed by European Commissioner Javier Solana, a man who pulled a trigger on 24 March 1999 to begin the bombing of Yugoslavia. If it were true of moral consideration, the international community could at least spare us the cynicism, that our nation's community was saved by a man who had destroyed 78 days. It is not the problem in Solana, but those who took part in it and who accepted Solana as a participant in the talks, witnesses, or commander. The agreement marks the end of the federal state and the end of a historical era, and you promised to be the one to preserve the common state.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-09-0.u19824	The word has the People's MP Đuro Popovic, followed by MP Stevo Dragisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-09-0.u19825	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, today we are discussing the proposed grounds for redecorating this federal state, and we are able to meet by the end of the twilight of the ruling coalition in this high house and in general on the political scene of Serbia. It certainly is not a surprise to most well-intentioned and thinking people on the premises of our Republic and our country in general. It's simple, with a trail of events, that a failed and chaotic policy is experiencing its culmination. The document ahead of us, at least in the proposed form alone, cannot have support not only in the opposition circles of the Serbian parliament, but also from all those who wish well both Serbia-Montenegro and so on. the rest of Yugoslavia. First of all, it should be borne in mind that on October 5th, no one, but the electoral body, has given a mandate to further disperse the country. Without bitterness, you can't talk about what's called. The Belgrade agreement to redefine relations and the formation of today's Federation. It's a beautiful chowder that salted us Mr. Solana, no one else but the head of humanitarian intervention with a sign of a merciful angel, that starter of a soulless war march invisible, yet catchable, aircraft and missiles beyond the range of defense. With what right did the signatories of the Belgrade Agreement give themselves the right to set the fate of Serbian and all other peoples of Serbia independently without wide public debate. They forgot the DOS leaders of their pre-election promises, and above all that after the fall of the regime, Slobodan Milosevic will be resolved the mutual misunderstanding of the two republics. Instead of cutting Gordi's knot and establishing fair relations within the Federation, the Dossovan authorities allowed a final break-up. It is incontestable that it is, in fact, the persistent effort of Serbia-Montenegro to preserve their political and other positions. How else do you explain that after an agreement in Belgrade, the euro was nominated for Montenegro's coin? Is this a contribution to a future honest and honest union? Finally, what is the debate in our Parliament about the proposed one? Is there a way out? The best solution is really simple, and it contains only two words - snap elections, and that is, as soon as possible. If the DOS fulfills its pre-election and post-election promises of self-restraint of its mandate, only in this case will we have national representatives with the mandate to give the final word on the fate of the Serbia-Montenegro common state. And because of everything that has been said, the SSP parliamentary group will not support this proposal by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-09-0.u19826	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Stevo Dragisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-09-0.u19827	Ladies and gentlemen, in order for some form to be called state, by definition it must have territory, population and sovereign authority. This future creation, so-called The state of Serbia-Montenegro will undoubtedly have territory and population, but the sovereign government will not have, both internally and externally. As far as sovereignty is concerned, she does not have it because its authority has been completely destroyed, inheriting that condition from the previous SRJ. The creation of this state, the future state of Serbia-Montenegro, cannot be called the process of uniting two federal units, as a consequence of national liberation, of some national enthusiasm, as it was usually the creation of federations between the two related states in history. This is a process that goes in the opposite direction, a process of decommissioning the state. We are now building an alliance of states, because we want to delay its definitely breaking up, and that is already in itself a sufficient reason why future joint bodies will not have authority, and hence neither internal sovereignty. Look at the congregation; in the classical Federations there is a two-home assembly - the upper house represents citizens, equal citizens, no matter what part of the territory the federal state resides or has citizenship; and this upper house was formerly larger citizens in our congregation. The lower home is usually formed to ensure equality between Member States. In the future congregation, we will only have that home, which should have an overvote protection mechanism. Knowing the inherited relationship, this mechanism will in fact be a problem, which will prevent the normal functioning of that future congregation. If we know that other common bodies will also be based on a parity principle -- not taking into account some general, common interest and the future common state, it will not be taken into account any positive selection of staff, but only to ensure the equality of the Member States -- it is clear that these future joint bodies will not have any authority in implementing their decisions, both in Montenegro and Serbia. On the other hand, external sovereignty towards great powers has been destroyed, or there is no very way that this country has been established, because this agreement has been brought under great pressure from the European Union or, to say the Western powers. Moreover, when a controversial issue arises between Serbia-Montenegro or the member states, the European Union resolves the dispute. So the internal issue of a federal or federal state will solve some other states, some foreign forces. Then where is sovereignty? If the state can't solve its own internal problems, it'll be solved by another state, even if it's neighbouring, then there's no sovereignty. The question then arises - which is why such an agreement, if the country is not in the legal sense of the word at its very beginning. If this agreement is already a mechanism for the postponement of the current Federation, what is the interest of the Republic of Serbia to participate in all this? In Serbia, it has never been serious or even serious political factors have not considered breaking the SRJ. That question has always been asked in Montenegro. On that platform, the current government, the current regime, won power in Montenegro. So why didn't the regime in Montenegro put its political platform into action? Here, by changing the regime, by coming DOS to power, you are all possible limits and barriers to them standing on that path completely open. Such a problem, the problem of detaching Montenegro from the SRJ would face no resistance, no opposition from the current regime in Serbia. The conclusion is that the regime in Montenegro has not decided on such a step, seeking to avoid internal conflicts. This is where Miroljub Labus said there was a danger of civil war in Montenegro, that's what he said. Perhaps that danger exists, perhaps hoping that in three years' time, they will be able to remove that danger, waiting for future events that could happen, which would facilitate a referendum statement on Montenegro's separation from the SRJ. Why does Serbia then participate in the fact that you simply did not tell them - organise a referendum, so that we do not hesitate. If there isn't a federal state, if we're only going to have on the paper some common bodies, which won't be able to implement any decisions, then why participate? You say - you have ensured that Resolution 1244 applies to Serbia as a whole, if Montenegro declares the SRJ exemption by a referendum. If that is true and if so, then you must not ask the question of a referendum in Serbia, that Serbia should separate from the SRJ, because then you lose what right you allegedly have achieved. And on the other hand, you should know that this is an internal agreement between Member States and that on an international basis it cannot produce any legal consequences. You should remember that UNMIK in Kosovo has repeatedly repeated that the definitive status of Kosovo and Metohija will only be resolved. With the current status of Kosovo and Metohija determined by the Security Council resolution, it will definitely be resolved by a new resolution. I'll remind you, if this is of any importance, this is guaranteed by the European Union, and the Security Council is still sitting in the United States. Then you'll have to make a deal with them, some trade and some future concessions. Therefore, Serbia had no serious political interest to take part in this, but you were only obliged to succumb to the pressure our country was under.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-09-0.u19828	Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Stevan G. Guduric.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-09-0.u19829	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr Djindjic, today, when we talk about these starting grounds, so let's look at the part where he says that the Member States are responsible for the smooth functioning of the common market, including the free movement of people, goods, services and capital and everything else written, we realize that in fact only the free flow of water will be between Serbia and Montenegro, through rivers and streams, and the rest is about not in this. Or, even worse, when we look at the part where we talk about the military, because it says, Serbia-Montenegro's army is commanded by the Supreme Defence Council, which is made up of three representatives, and they decide by consensus. They shall pass three wars, and they shall agree, and the three of them shall pass among themselves, as it is done. And, then, there are other smart things, in that section about the military saying -- the recruiting military service on the territory of their own Member State -- and then I understood that it would turn out that Mr. Canak would ask the Duchy to serve in Vojvodina, that Mr. Kasa would ask that from that region there, which rules, Pannonia, the army serve in another country, and whether a member is not even important in this case. Next, I understand, as it all goes, that at the end of my Bob, who is not 12 years old, he seems to serve his army at home, because there will be no state, and when there is no state, there is no army, then that's how it's going to happen. I resent why Mrs. Micic, as president of this assembly, did not call on this meeting, in fact, only two introductions, Mr. Kostunica and Mr. Solana, because we understood here, Mr. Djindjic said he heard everything from Mr. Solana, and Mr. Labus that it was some document that, on the one hand, gave Montenegro, and on the other hand, gave DOS with SNP as a coalition partner. It's just that in this country many do not seem to interfere with their jobs, as Zoran Lilic did at the same time. You introduced her to us, Mr. Djindjic, when you represented the government, as a team of experts and experts. And based on your presentation the other day, Mr. Batic and Mr. Vesenov, we realized that this government is a group of irresponsible citizens of this country and it seems that some other countries have passports and dual citizenship. What was in that government was Mr. Perisic going to say, military court. The citizens said, "It's been clear to them that things are here for a long time." There was also a story about whether there was any difference between the gentleman (Glass: Theme. )......................................................................................................... It's all about the subject. The ones who signed here are the same subject. We're talking about the state, I guess. If anyone gets it differently by accident, it looks like he's come to the wrong session. What's the difference between Kostunica and Mesic... Milka, you don't understand this. There is a difference, because Mesic, when he came, immediately said why he came; and when he did, he said - I did my part of the job; and went home to Zagreb satisfied. Mr. Kostunica doesn't seem to know where he came from or didn't inform him, because he also broke up the country he's headed; as president, he's the only one who gives some unsuspecting and unmistakable explanations -- that it's not like that; only from this one that says I don't see any state, or that country he's president of. The President wills the citizens, unfortunately. You, Mr. Djindjic, travel to Serbia with the slogan "Serbia on a good path", and I would say it is not, that this is the new original path to the future and that the people living in this country will have many knots on their heads from the new original road to the future, because what it says here is nowhere in the world. So it's the original route. And it's not our first time, not even for the 60 years you've mentioned. Just remember that you lived in that time too, that you also doctored on some sciences, that we don't all remember what was backwards. And if the whole, phenomenal success of these negotiations was to keep one chair in the United Nations, you could meta-weekly canoes so that they could sit two, and not sit around one chair in the United Nations so much, when nothing else actually agreed. Because if we're talking about Montenegro's blackmail, I'm only going to make a comparison between Montenegro and South Baba County, where my Beocin belongs. What's the same between Montenegro and South Baba County is that both there and here, mostly in the most important part, live honest and honest people and that's not controversial. In all other South Baba County is better and bigger than Montenegro. The only thing that makes him worse is that in Montenegro, as in earlier years, he gave birth to better stones than he did in South Baba County. In all of this, Mr. Labus mentioned a desert island. I think it would be best if the signatories had sat on that desert island and sailed into history, because there is no future with them in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-09-0.u19830	Thank you. The People's Messenger Tomislav Nikolic has the word, and after him Ljubisa Maravić. The remaining time of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group is seven minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-09-0.u19831	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, as a member of the Serbian people from the Serbian Radical Party, I have proudly carried my cross and have suffered for decades... Milka, even Bora Dugic sometimes put away that player, dry it, and you don't shut that mouth. [[Sagar.]] And for decades, I have suffered terror of persecution and endless humiliation. To whom I was forced to prove that I was not afraid - of the communist regime, the Ustashas, the mujahedins, the Shiptar terrorists, the capitalist world, the socialist and the new, called democratic, the authorities. I thought I'd been through enough and nothing worse than what I've been through could ever happen to me. If nothing, I was hoping that until I met the great Serbia, I would live in peace in the current Serbian state. I'm aware, they occupied Serbian territories, they don't think it's easy to get them back, they don't stop, they're looking for more, but I thought the fate of the previous government would be a reminder to the new one, because she saw that the Serbian authorities punish even for insufficient care for the state or that at least no one in Serbia would help the occupier anymore. Of course, while I was participating in the government, which was guarding the Serbian state, I was aware that if those who, as opposition, supported NATO as well as Milo Djukanovic, came to power while he was taking part of the Serbian state. I love this country with my heart, but on October 5th, my stomach turned as I watched democratic forces come to power with guns. It was clear to me at the time that the chill, anxiety and crying would move into most Serbian families, into some before and into some later. Most citizens are clear today and it's not too late. Today in the assembly, the senior representatives of the DOS are sitting, and they are looking forward to the end of the debate in order for their majority to abolish the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. They spoke, I listened to them, in their presentations I recognized the views of Brussels, Tel Aviv, Bonn, Washington, depending on whose who, and spinning through the head last year, 12 years of our disappearance. Here, the Prime Minister can't remember who represented Tel Aviv. It's all the same, and everything else... You know who's who. It's all the same. Government meetings attended by foreign diplomats, travelling the circus route of Belgrade - Podgorica, which, you claim in this vermin, are the main cities of the Member States, and the farce with a public debate, as if DOS Serbs were asking us what we are going to do and how we are going to do it. Today, Javier Solana sent to the Serbian assembly to complete what he failed in March 1999, when he threw tens of thousands of destroying missiles, mostly banned when he was at war against human beings. Ferman reads to us, as an explicit order, the last warning, "if he bows down to me", reads and represents a sad-shared group of people, collected by strange moral criteria. The DOS represents the American doctrine that the international community is all that has the power to carry out its will. So NATO, the United States, the international community and Javier Solana. That's why DOS leaders signed this new triple pact. Serbs, signatories of the first trinity pact, are not remembered for the good, and have not even lived. For today's capitulation, both the signatories and those who will vote to accept this. The DOS, as it was on October 5th, has been strong, ruthless, 176 MPs, sworn to transparency: all its moves will be drawn before citizens; citizens will know everything, participate in creating, making decisions, implementing decisions. That wasn't a long time ago. Now the Prime Minister, Zoran Djindjic, has informed us that the conspirators have settled somewhere, that they have received written text from Javier Solana, who has been handed over to them on principle - take it, you cannot leave it. We even learned from Mr Djindjic that the proposal made by Solana was without the right to amends: accept or fail; and there is absolutely nothing you can do about it. Does Zoran Djindjic lie to us? Miroljub Labus told us there was no Solana paper at all. Only our two domestics, from which Serbia gave way to the paper we have in front of us. Is Miroljub Labus lying to us, or--who's lying to us anymore? And speaking of Mr. Labus, why is he attending meetings of the National Assembly? As a representative of Solana? It looks like it, because immediately after the signing he admitted that he was against, forced by colleagues who would support him in the presidential campaign, and now he came to us to convince us to do what he did, to accept something that we weren't even brain or soul for. Or maybe this is Mr. Labus' presidential campaign. What's the campaign going on for the president of Serbia? This paper could be just an initiative to change the federal constitution. It is not a proposal to change the constitution, it was not signed by authorised promoters, it was not adopted by the United States Council with a two-thirds majority and there is no basis for today's debate at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, unless the Assembly has anything else to do. The outcome of today's or tomorrow's vote on paper, which has not yet been seen by the Union's Greater Citizens, the Federal Assembly of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, to be the consent of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, to adopt the constitutional statutes, as you call the highest legal act of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. It's impossible. The National Assembly must receive a complete proposal to change the Constitution. In a text that has already adopted the two-thirds majority of the Federal Assembly of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. But why should I talk about the Constitution that makes us here and explains the man who abolished the Constitutional Court? I know what I want and I don't want. I don't want a country that is complicatedly offered by Djindjic and Kostunica, Djukanovic and Bulatovic. Only a foreign dictatorship could agree with people who don't agree with each other at all, and they'll agree that relations in the state are regulated as no one in the world. We're the first and most advanced, we're like white mice. I don't want a country that's supposed to look like DOS Serbia, torn up, destroyed by crime, fought. I don't want a country where strangers re-recognise the right to self-determination to republics, not the people. I don't want a country where I'd fear the Blacks constantly if they had an independent state. Let them fear. I've read enough about the bloody Christmas rebellion in 1915...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-09-0.u19832	I'm warning you, time's over.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-09-0.u19833	finishing... on Petrovdan in 1941 and independence under Italy; and I remember in October 1991 and the participation of Montenegro's leadership, along with four other republics, in the crackdown of the SFRY; I remember in November 1991 and Karington's, or The Hague document, after which the leadership of Montenegro withdrew the army from Serbia's Krajina and repeated in 1916, when Montenegro, although legally bound by a contract to share war-to-do with Serbia, had signed an agreement with the occupation and left Serbia alone on the battlefield. I lived through the difficult years in which the Montenegrin state establishment humiliated the state, which itself declared by the constitution written by its dictatorship, I threw up with torment when Montenegro's leadership accused the Yugoslav Army of...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-09-0.u19834	Mr. Nikolic, for the second time, I'm warning you of overtime and on the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-09-0.u19835	... which defends itself from NATO from Montenegro's territory and young democracy poses dangers of being bombed. I don't want a country where there would be two Orthodox churches. I don't want a state where democracy, expressed through parliamentary voting, will be banned. I will not humiliate Serbia and accept that 17 of its inhabitants are worth as one of Montenegro's residents. How, by what mathematics or logic do I explain it in my Bychetini, where humble people live, but wise people, lie to them as they lie to me here. I don't want a country where it applies to overvote protection mechanisms, I don't want a country where a cow would fit in Serbia and give milk in Montenegro. I don't want any more state that wouldn't please the Serbian people. I want my brothers in Montenegro to be the result of the referendum or the census to say whether they are Serbs or Montenegrins, so if they are Serbs, we should drive Javier and the chalice away, and if they are not Serbs, why wait three years to do what you intend to do, we better split up right away.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-09-0.u19836	The word is by MP Ljubisa Maravić, followed by MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-09-0.u19837	The Honorable Presidency, honourable fellow Members of Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, listening to the first comments on the signed agreement, was immediately noticed that some seemed and seemed to be the greatest result in the existing conditions, and some thought and thought that they should go their own way. However, only after seeing the full text and reading it more carefully is it understood where certain provisions of this text are taking place. There is concern for the future of our country, and therefore for the position of the Autonomous Region of Kosovo and Metohija and its future. As a Serb living in Kosovo and Metohija, I do not see how this text shows that the Security Council Resolution 1244 would be respected in the event of separation and would remain in force, and that Serbia is the legal successor of that resolution, especially if we know that the same purposely avoided mention of the Serbian state is made and it is explicitly emphasized that Cosmet is only an integral part of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. So it is very difficult to expect that the same Albanian lobby that denied the sovereign rights of the Serbian state in part of its territory will now accept that Serbia is the legal successor of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. As far as the text itself is concerned, I consider it my obligation to say in the shortest possible terms what I think about the same thing and to say what the consequences result from it. For one thing, this in no way can be an agreement on the principles of mutual relations, but obviously it is about breaking the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and creating two sovereign states. It is therefore only a contractual relationship concluded between the two countries, a limited duration, armed to three years, which in no case can be considered a common state. However, here is a very interesting and coincident with the same kind of extradition related to one other part of our country's territory, for the Autonomous Region of Kosovo and Metohija. Two, the agreement states that the constitutional charter, which is supposed to be the highest legal act of the state, is being adopted by the Assembly of the Republic, and is being delivered to the Assembly of the internationally recognised Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, which is a member of the United Nations. The text does not show whether the republics provide the text for adoption or only the Federal Assembly to inform of what they have done. In this way, the Federal Assembly becomes only the executive body of the republican parliaments, which de facto and de jure is denied by the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. We know the fact that the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia has been recognised for the second time in the United Nations, and the question arises whether it is only because of the recognition of the UN tribunal or the conflict agreement, which voluntarily gave up the legacy of our ancestors. Thirdly, as an example to which we are deluded by some of the solutions, by stating the newly introduced institution - the Council of Ministers, which could not have the name of the government because it does not have an object, i.e. to countries, there are no instruments of government, i.e. by means of coercion. So unless the republics implement the decisions of this council properly, it will only be a counseling facility, which brings us to the dilemma -- will the ministers consult each other at his meetings or will he advise someone else? Four, a special problem is the fate of the army and the way of command, because as things stand now we will have and we will no longer have an army, we will have and we will not have its command. Namely, if one of the members of the Supreme Defence Council disagrees with the decision, a certain command cannot be given. So, for issuing the same would be counter-constitutional, which would lead both itself and the military into an illegal position and turn themselves and the military into a paramilitary formation, and their decision could have moral but not legal coverage for further action. That's why, under the circumstances, we have the right to defend ourselves in a completely opposite position, and if we did do so anyway, that, as I said before, would be an illegal act, which the world should judge, of course according to the attackers' suit. So, in the event of an attack, defeat is certain without any resistance. So who would this military snail slow down to as a deterrent factor? This kind of cartoon attitude towards its own army hardly has a precedent in human history, such a solution our glorious, brave and determined army didn't deserve. At the end of this review, it's very difficult for me to support such an agreement precisely because both the SPS and I are all committed to the preservation of the common state. Mr. Prime Minister, you have announced in your statement that we will also discuss Kosovo and Metohija in this assembly. I think it should be discussed as long as tomorrow, because of the situation which is becoming increasingly difficult in Kosovo and Metohija, due to the latest arrests of young people in Kosovo Mitrovica - Stevan Zigic, Slavoljub Jovic and others, then the brutal relationship between KFOR and UNMIK members towards Serbian life in the northern part of Kosovo Mitrovica, the brutal violation of Security Council Resolution and visits by Albanian officials Kosovo and Metohija (what Mr Svilanovic has already invested in and protest), and the announcements of exemptions from the constitutional and legal system of the state of Serbia, which is contrary to Resolution 1244, the main headquarters of survival and the rest of the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija, health and education. Kosovo and Metohija are the highest state interest and should have priority in the assembly procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-09-0.u19838	The word is by MP Dragan Todorovic, followed by MP Bora Stanimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-09-0.u19839	Ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of my presentation, let me do a little digression, to take advantage of the presence of the distinguished Prime Minister who was recently in the city where I came from, to give him greetings from the "damned avalanche", as defined by our city, with a reminder that there was a Democratic Party in power in that city for five years and that this "cursed avalanche" wasn't as cursed as it is now, just five years ago. However, in order not to spend too much of my words, I would say only for a short time that, with regard to the proposal for the starting grounds for reorganising Serbia-Montenegro's relations, there are some opinions in Piroth that the city's name is changing itself and that Pirot is no longer called Pirot, but to be changed to the Union of Pazara, it is part of the left of Nisava, and Tiabara, on the right of Nisava. There are also some ideas that Nisava's current is turning in the opposite direction, so it's going towards Bulgaria, but I hope that we will have the understanding that something like that is not possible. At first, I did a little dispersion to distract you and to try to convince you that these basics really need to be distanced as soon as possible and as clearly as possible, that these basics should not be allowed to be understood in the way that those who wrote them and wrote them and that, in essence, they should not go to policy flows that come down to one puppet obedience in relation to the demands of those who want to govern us. Also, we could conceptually compare this kind of policy to the kind of policy that was led until before the DOS came to power. In fact, we have suffered reports and attacks on our country precisely because we wanted to decide our own fate. Unfortunately, this is an eclectic example that demands from the world, from the European Community, are respected today, that they are respected unspeakably, no matter what their impact will be on the lives of all of us. In the beginning, I must say that these starting grounds are clearly undermined by the SRJ Constitution, which prescribes ways to change the state order and issues of the type of community that Serbia-Montenegro should enter. This constitutional question, primarily, which has been resolved in this way without a constitutional assembly, and we all know that when the current constitution is ignored, the constitutional authority becomes quite free, unbound by the constitution; either the Constitutional Assembly or the Constitution grants to the nation's head of state. We don't have a head of state here as a signer of this document. On his behalf he signed someone else, another of the formal mistakes and shortcomings of this agreement. Also, I have to say that the way and concept of the state created by this act is very vague, because in practice there is really no such symbiosis of the state system that is not necessarily neither of the confederacy nor of the Federation. In fact, what is very important (and that is something we all need to know), in international contexts, especially when one state is being torn apart, the consequences relate to both international contracts and sovereign debt. With this agreement and the destruction of Yugoslavia, we also question the certainty of Resolution 1244, which you are attacking, the hour you are defending, but it is undoubtedly the way in which the sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia and the SRJ in Kosovo and Metohija was guaranteed. This, in the event of a break-up of Yugoslavia or a renaming of Yugoslavia, will indeed be questioned, regardless of how this internal political act, called the initial basis for redecorating Serbia-Montenegro's relations, has one provision, which, as a fear, guarantees that the provisions of Resolution 1244 will also be valid after Yugoslavia's break-up. However, from an international-legal point of view, it is very discussionable. Also, I must say, there is really nothing in this act about the election of MPs to the Federal Assembly. As they will be chosen, how many will be in the Federal Assembly, it is very vague. It is possible to be delegates from the republican congregations, in which case they would really have an imperial mandate and then it is really something other than a congregation that really represents and represents the electoral body. Also, there are a number of illogical solutions that are just emerging from the fact that this is an imposed act of all these things clearly suggest that this act should not be adopted, that this act is not good and that it will not contribute to a better life for all of us. To finish - since the time for my presentation is running out, since I only have five minutes, and I've already overstepped it - gentlemen, call the elections as soon as possible so that we can determine our people's voting will and not be distracted by such things that don't contribute to a better life for all of us.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-09-0.u19840	The word has been given by MP Bora Stanimirovic, followed by MP Rada Bajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-09-0.u19841	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister, allow me to welcome the man who has worked with us for two days, vice-president of the SRJ government, a country that no longer exists. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start at this time from the very beginning of this session, when we began to discuss such an important issue as the agreement between Serbia and Montenegro. I would call that beginning a state of general confusion and confusion. Why? First, a letter came from the president of the Republic of Yugoslavia asking him to come to the beginning of the session and speak in the end. Then comes Parliament's decision to prohibit the president from speaking in the end, or attending. In this way, we have shown one form of democracy, as much as we can forbid even the President of the Republic. I think the special exposé of the Prime Minister in some way, and the discussion later, introduced even more confusion. The president very clearly explained the reasons why we need to sign this agreement, and he was actually already signed. Finally, he admitted that he had not been informed of all this, so the Prime Minister is increasingly reminding me of the President of the Republic of Yugoslavia, Mr Kostunica, because he is usually uninformed, but somehow changed the roles. Now the President of the Republic does not inform the Prime Minister. I think that even more at the beginning of the session created this condition that I was just talking about. Secondly, only the statement by the minister of justice, Mr Batic, was diametrically contrary. It has created such a mix-up and has affected parliament, including voters themselves, that people could not cope in this situation. What happens when the Prime Minister presents one proposal on the creation of a state, or destruction, anyway, and his minister, who practically sits in his lap, speaks the diametric opposite of all of it. Who can manage that? Not in the lap? Okay. Secondly, how much worse this community is than the previous community, from its perspective, from the beginning of 1918 and from the creation of the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians, through the Kingdom of Yugoslavia in 1929, and even Nedic's Serbia lasted longer than this community. I say, it lasted longer, and I didn't say if it was worse or better, not to mention the new state, the Federative People's Republic of Yugoslavia; and even worse than the state of 1974, when autonomy in that new confederation gained greater rights than the republics themselves. Therefore, if all of this is seen, then it can be seen to what extent the confusion was even greater at the beginning of the session itself. What are the repercusions for southern Serbia, as far as this agreement is concerned? Since I come from the Pcinj County, from Vranj, I would talk about it because others have talked a lot about these other issues. It is a very difficult situation in southern Serbia, as Albanians held a secret referendum in municipalities such as Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja in 1992 on the creation of eastern Kosovo to join Kosovo. Now that Yugoslavia is gone, they themselves point out that they have no reason to stick to Resolution 1244, because we know that Resolution 1244 has brought the Security Council, not the European Union. Therefore, it is known who can change that resolution and whether it will change it. So much earlier, the harder the situation in these municipalities is now, given that it is under pressure from all of this, and especially after it is known that a new state is being created that will change the status of this part of Serbia, that Albanians are calling for the Berlin Congress, the border that was up to Ristovac, that the situation will be even more difficult and that mass sales of houses and land, property -- and not only in Presevo, but also in Bujanovac, as well as in southern Serbia. It is a big reminder, and I think it would be the only solution for the Assembly to make, regardless of European laws, a decision temporarily prohibiting the sale and transfer of property and property, otherwise what happened to Kosovo will happen. Fourth, this all started, as you can see, because of one chair. It's just amazing! It's not even gentlemen's, because I heard the vice-president of the federal government say that if we hadn't signed this agreement, there would have been a civil war and that Serbia might have been involved. So we're going to war with the Montenegrins. You know the Greeks only fought over beautiful women, not chairs. If it's because of that chair, we could offer the Montenegrins a sofa, because the chair is a serious thing, it has to be sitting on, but it has to be done. During the negotiations, ladies and gentlemen, there are some minimums under which you can't go. Those who follow history know that even when the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians was created a compromise, but one minimum was made by both the Serbian government and the Yugoslav Committee, where representatives of the Serbian government insisted that the rule of this new state be the Karadjordjevic, the Serbian dynasty, and representatives of the Yugoslav Committee, meaning Slovenians and Croats insisted that the state be called the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians. That's why we can call these basics transitory. Transitional, because you don't know who crossed whom, who won in all of this. It won the European Union, and lost the people of Montenegro and Serbia, the European Union was given because it first showed that it could do something on its own in Europe without the support of America. He got Djukanovic who he saved, normally, Solana. Since I'm waved by these that time has run out, I'd end up -- what's created is neither a Federation nor a confederate, but it's some new creation that doesn't exist and what the people say holds water while the masters leave. Solana didn't even get to the European Union headquarters, and the seams of this country started shooting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-09-0.u19842	The People's Messenger Rada Bajic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Golub Rajic. The remaining time of the SPS parliamentary group is 24 minutes, and there are nine registered speakers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-09-0.u19843	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen MPs, what about these transitional bases that are today before us means the people. It's best to go to any informal gathering, it was a match, a wedding, a local community, a bus stop -- in a funny and honorable way, like our people, in a sordid way, and through a joke he said and commented on these starting bases; so he says -- as the state is called, it's called the Solanium. What's her capital? Ulcinj. And you know why and everything in Ulcinj is done. If he hadn't already come with the finished solutions as we've heard here, although contradictoryly, if Solana came to mentor this country, the man who pressed the button in 1999, but at a safe height of 80 and more thousands of meters, destroyed this country, poisoned bullets from poor uranium, killed children and youth. No one can really accept that. If we move on to the economics part, it seems like no economist has participated in these talks, because all economic story is completely hollow. Why didn't they ask Solana if he would allow two currencies, two central banks, two tariffs, different customs rates in his or in a European country? If this is imposed, it should have been said that simply this state does not stand, that no one will accept such a state into any alliance or union. One practical question is raised, because it will be very complicated - what about goods, and it is known to be a duty-free flow of goods between Serbia and Montenegro, which enters the lower customs rate of Montenegro and is transferred to Serbia (and there is known to be smuggling and forgeries of the origin of goods) without customs. It is certain that Serbia will not allow such goods to enter Serbia. So the border line must be set, and then we wonder why you kept saying that we had set a customs line between Serbia and Montenegro for years while the campaign was pre-election. She was a coward and a pest to the SPS, Milosevic, and now it will have to be done, because Serbia has to protect itself. If the different rates and the two tariffs are, as the common market is supposed to be, I guess we know that and whoever taught the economy a little bit, that's the basic phrase, that the free market next to the free flow of goods, capital, people predicts the customs union. The customs union cannot have two tariffs and different customs rates. What are a series of problems that will arise besides that? What, say, with pensions, because a lot of pensions from here go to Montenegro. It's not about the budget at all, and it means one army. What an army when recruits from Montenegro will serve in Montenegro and Serbs will serve in Serbia. Therefore, it is to assume that the officer's powers will be divided -- the only ones from Montenegro and will be in Montenegro, and those from Serbia will be in Serbia. If we still take the Council of Defense to decide by consensus, it is clear that there is neither a common army nor a common state. It is simply a transitional period, one that will become what Montenegro and the European Union want in three years. Already, if we say Serbia's interest, somewhere there says that Serbia will take over all obligations when it comes to contracts, let's say Resolution 1244; how the international community is working on Cosmet, which is certainly that after three years... a, you see the paradox introduced by Solana - for three years and when it was a negotiations in Rambujeu to introduce a referendum on Kosovo, and now the same three years until the referendum, when it comes to deciding on the final fate of the common state. Therefore, with this agreement, we are practically moving Kosovo and Metohija away from Yugoslavia. Since we have such a democratic time, which has drastically diminished the ability of MPs to address citizens, and that all my comrades would have the opportunity to say their opinions, I am ending this.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-09-0.u19844	The word has the People's MP Golub Rajic, followed by the MP Slobodan Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-09-0.u19845	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, on the agenda of the First Regular National Assembly meeting on an urgent procedure was included an agreement on the starting basis for the reshuffle of Serbia-Montenegro's relations, a document that was made in a totally non-democratic way, behind closed doors, without the participation of parliamentary MPs' groups and MPs as representatives of citizens and peoples. This is an anti-constitutional document that carries out an attempt to abolish the constitutional order or its suspension, where the key factor Solana and those behind it is. It is another technology that has extended the punishment of the Serbian people and Yugoslavia for what has happened in the past. These are not grounds for redecorating Serbia-Montenegro's relations, this is a document for abolishing the state, for abolishing Yugoslavia, because we have so far had no relations between Serbia and Montenegro, so that we should redecorate them. We had a country called Yugoslavia, and this is the paper that needs that country to end, but in the wars, for the next three years. Montenegro has long failed to respect the federal constitution, violates it, and that the Constitutional Court has done its job has had to repeal all laws and have someone responsible for it. However, the proposed agreement legalises the existing situation. They will continue to do the same and after three years, they can secede without the right to condemn or object to them. This agreement does not provide a federal state that will function in favour of Serbia-Montenegro, without talking about the economy and that there will be no foreign investment in the next three years, the state will not function, and its further decommissioning will contribute to an even greater distance between Kosovo and Metohija from Yugoslavia. Are there enough guarantees that Kosovo's problem will be solved within Serbia? So responsibility for these principles of the new community is borne by those who have negotiated, who have created and signed it. Are the signatories authorized for one such document and is it okay to do so in addition to the existing and living presidents of Serbia and the president of the federal government, Mr Milutinovic and Pesic, for them, the republican Prime Minister Djindjic and Vice President Labus. Is this a state or party document or an agreement that continues to degrade the state? These days, I too have some questions in eastern Serbia that have never been asked -- just at the time of the census, a wet question is being asked. The Socialist Party of Serbia believes that citizens of Serbia-Montenegro have the right to decide whether they want a common state. There are minimum powers that every common state must have in order to be of some benefit. Otherwise, a fictitious common state can only make life worse for each other. It is necessary to create a modern and efficient common state as a Federation. It is necessary, both to create an ambience of a socially fair market economy, to achieve democracy and human rights, and to associate equally with the European and the rest of the world. The Socialist Party of Serbia believes that the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia is the best choice for Serbs and Montenegrins, for all citizens, for achieving the national and state interests of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Montenegro, guarantees independence, progress and freedom. Following the decades-long dispersion of Yugoslavia's single economic space, another opportunity arises for an effective economic arrangement through constitutional arrangement of relations between the two republics in the federal state, but with some minimum function, such as a single system and defence policy, foreign affairs, human rights, economic space, one currency, a central bank and a customs system. So we're for the common state, but not the one that provides this agreement, something that hasn't been seen in the world yet. This is still a humiliation for Serbia and the Serbian people, because Serbia is less equal than Montenegro, which is not good; and it should be declared Serbian citizens and it does not take us three years for new divisions, if we can save a single Serbia now, with Kosovo's unresolved status.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-09-0.u19846	The word is from the MP Slobodan Pavlovic, followed by MP Vladimir Garčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-09-0.u19847	Mrs Micic, Mr. Prime Minister, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, the positions of the SPS parliamentary group in this parliament, and in relation to the initial grounds for redecorating Serbia-Montenegro's relations, the head of our parliamentary group, Prof. Dr. Branislav Ivkovic, was quoted mostly by all the SPS MPs in this parliament, as you yourselves have seen. Of course, as an MP of this party, I accept, support and represent these views, but not from party discipline, because I believe, as well as most of you, that this is not a political and party issue, but a high state issue, that it is the fate of the state and our people, and not of any party. That is why the conclusions, if you have kept in mind, since no one else has suggested it, went in that direction and in those positions, and they are primarily turned to the future constitutional charter, as the highest act, if this country is to come to life, and not to the basics. If the question arises why - because we do not support these basics as a political agreement, for the reasons mentioned in previous participants in the debate, from my parliamentary group, and let me also make a personal point of view in 10 points, precise and clear. First, we are in favour of the common state of Serbia-Montenegro, so the federal community of all citizens in both republics, with a minimum of common functions that will benefit all citizens of the two republics, and what is proposed to the starting grounds is not that, but something else and our estimates will be at the expense of Serbia, which is essentially also the introductions at the meeting, Prime Minister Djindjic and Vice President Labus, they did not dispute. Secondly, the whole process, negotiations, talks, production, reconciliation was done, in our opinion, undemocraticly behind the backs of the people and citizens, behind the backs of the relevant authorities and institutions in Serbia and (I must mention the matter) without the involvement of the parliamentary opposition in this assembly, because the positions of negotiators might have been different if we had participated. Our negotiators who participated in the negotiations, first of all I think of Dr Kostunica as the main mediator and signator, Prime Minister Djindjic and Vice President Labus, with all the arguments that they put out here, without anger, I must say, were obviously not successful negotiators in these negotiations. I am saying this because they have themselves admitted that they have failed to impose in the negotiations a starting platform prepared by the DOS and the coalition "Together for Yugoslavia", but have already been pressured, they say, to accept and sign the basics that are obviously not in favour of our republic. I don't want to mention Mr. Kostunica's inability to mention the statement by Prime Minister Djindjic that he had heard from Solana about the solution, I don't want to talk about what Professor Labus said about being surprised, appalled and offended, but he had to accept it, because it was obviously a process that lasted so long. Fifthly, the starting grounds, according to their content and solutions, are practically abolishing the SRJ and meeting all the requirements of Milo Djukanovic and his regime that without a referendum, which would certainly lose, get everything they wanted and seek; at the same time, it is a humiliation for Serbia. That's what I heard from the Montenegrin Parliament MPs, in direct transmission through the SEE channel. So, the starting grounds are completely unclear to define the character and form of the state union, because it's obvious that this community is neither a Federation nor a confederate nor a state community, nor a community of states, nor an alliance, nor a union. Some unique, a miracle unseen. So, according to the basics, we will have a state with republican borders, without free flow of goods, services, workers, without a single economic space, with two coins, two central banks, two customs, etc., which is certainly not a state. Eight, the basics suggest a new name, ladies and gentlemen, our future state, our future community, which should be called Serbia-Montenegro. No offense, no offense, looks like the name of the state of Cao Tome and Principe, Trinidad and Tobago, I don't know a third country that's called, because it connects two islands, etc. I must say that every country, of course, has a right to its own name, a name that expresses the personality of the position and tradition of the people who settle it. It is a matter of political wisdom and culture to find one who will not only be satisfied, but also be proud. I don't have time, because of my other colleagues, to remind you of my 17th. ed 18. and 21....................................................................................................................................... - all those years we argued and negotiated and kept, basically, just two names we had. If we were to ask a question now -- who is bothered by such a state and its name, I would immediately type on two, to Dr. Kostunica, as the current president of the SRJ, who says -- every Yugoslavia in the blurry Gretel and break-up with the former regime (that is, of course, something that "does not drink water", at least as far as I'm concerned), and Mr. Javier Solana, if at all, is a gentleman, the first NATO pact on our country, who actually realised what NATO, the United Europe wanted. I'm running out of time for my MPs. In the end, I would just like to propose the following -- I propose to the National Assembly, propose to Prime Minister Djindjic, as a representative of the government, I know that the parliamentary majority, which has the DOS and other parties in parliament, will adopt the starting bases, and I suggest that we also adopt the working conclusion, in addition to what our parliamentary group has proposed, and that is -- that the starting foundations of this state community are proposed with a limited duration of three years, as Resolution 1244 Kosovo has been defined also for three years, that after three years we will all declare the same thing again, I propose that we do not change the name of the existing state, SRJ, that we do not change the state symbols, that we do not change the features, that we do not change the personal documents of all citizens. I'm sure it would be in the interest of both states and people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-09-0.u19848	The People's Messenger Vladimir Garčević, after him, has the People's Messenger Toma Busetic. The remaining time of the SPS parliamentary group is 7.5 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-09-0.u19849	Dear fellow MPs, I expected that no citizen has the right to destroy the country, that no citizen has the right from Serbia's territory to help the enemy of the Serb people and the Montenegrin people in Montenegro. This primarily refers to Milo Djukanovic, who issued interests and, along with a certain, minority part of the people in Montenegro, won previous elections. Mr. Prime Minister, you promised and said we'd guard the country, we'll redecorate it. Why didn't you, as a man, and you, and Kostunica, let Milo Djukanovic hold a referendum in Montenegro. I'm surprised by the behaviour and the "Yugoslavija", Pedje Bulatovica, you should have asked him -- what did he experience in Komovi, Andrijevica, as they view the destruction of Yugoslavia and the common state of Serbia-Montenegro? Do you want the border, that I must cross it from Vojvodina to Zemun, that I must cross it to Sandzak, that I must cross the border to enter the most Serbian area, Vasojevic? Who has the right to play in whose name? It was enough that Milo Djukanovic passively observed the bombings in May events, the small village of Murina, with seven dead, of which three children, without a factory here and without anything needed. Let Mila go to the referendum. I say responsibly - unless there is support for the Muslim people, which I understand is the aim of living in one country, Milo Djukanovic cannot separate Montenegro from the referendum. On the other hand, it is certain that if the interest of disintegrating and creating public opinion is under pressure, harassing the citizens of Montenegro by the authorities, then you have done a service to destroy this beautiful country for the next three years. You had no right to do so, neither you nor President Kostunica. Solana, who killed children, and now here's the vice president of the government, is there, negotiating with Milo, what's he doing in the new state? There's nothing from that country, give us back Yugoslavia, so we can live in peace.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-09-0.u19850	The People's Messenger Tom Bushetić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-09-0.u19851	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the agreement on the starting grounds for Serbia-Yugoslavia's redecoration is the point of the common state. What Solana suggested, in the co-operation with Djindjic and Kostunica, is not a state, because there is no attribute of the state. But what we could expect - Milo Djukanovic has been against the common state for several years, and Zoran Djindjic, Kostunica and Batic have been against the common state for 10 years. After all, Vladan Batic has been campaigning with the parole for months -- and Serbia to wonder. It's extremely politically illiterate, because who would give up the works of their people and the works of their territory? It's the same as when France now gives up Basque, only this is an even more rigid case. But what we could, again, expect from Batic, because simply as Dinkic and Djelic get ready solutions to economic issues, Batic and Djindjic get ready solutions for state and political issues. The Prime Minister said that throughout history we had constitutional crises and bad solutions and that he particularly apostropheeded in 1992. However, the 1992 constitution is a great solution to the return on what Kostunica, Djindjic, Batic and other companies bring today. We had bigger citizens, the principle of one man -- one vote, a larger republic, where equality is ensured. Well, Djindjic says it couldn't live. It lived until Djukanovic came, a blackmailed politician and encouraged by NATO pact countries. When he took the DPS, it was over. Djindjic said -- there is no way to agree, as there are no relevant political parties in Serbia and Montenegro. That's true, but it was 1992. The DPS had plebiscite support in Montenegro and the SPS in Serbia. Right? That's right. Miroljub Labus, Deputy Prime Minister, said he was in a double role. Well, we know, Labus is always in double role. Time represents the IMF, time to the federal government. In this case, around this agreement, both Western governments and SRJ were represented at the same time. But what is the outcome - we see. He represented the interests of these others. And Vojislav Kostunica is not amnesty. On the contrary, his responsibility is extraordinary. His first statement is for this radical creation -- "the important thing is that we've performed discontinuity with the former regime". Well, the former regime was great compared to what Kostunica is now leading, and Djindjic, and everyone else. That's true. [[Sagar.]] The Prime Minister says -- this agreement will stop Serbia's disintegration. Where are they gonna stop? It's getting more disintegration. Covic is making election units in Medvedja and Bujanovac, which will hand Medvedja and Bujanovac to the Shiptars. It's clear to everyone. Furthermore, as far as disintegration is concerned, Stefanos Anino remains to express concern for Raska, and that is what happens. That's what's going to happen, Prime Minister. Secondly, when are you going to stop Sonja Biserko and Natasha Kandic, who are the open enemies of this people. Well, in every country, they'd place you know where. You know where. [[Sagar.]] We're not voting because there's no "d" here from the state, from customs, I don't want to talk about it, everybody's already talking about it. In the end, just one question: President, why only the Serb chiefs in The Hague? Don't tell us -- well, it's not our problem with Muslims and Croats. Why only the Serbs? Where's Izetbegovic? Where's Ejup Ganic? Where's Mesic? Where are they? It is no longer accepted in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-09-0.u19852	The word has the MP Dusan Cvetkovic, one minute, if he wants to speak. He's not here. The word has Sreten Mitrovic. You have one minute, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-09-0.u19853	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Prime Minister, a question of the type of community in which, according to the initial grounds for redecorating their relations, Serbia-Montenegro should enter, no doubt, the historic issue, especially for Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija. It is clear to all of us, when it comes to us, about Serbia, that these basics, by breaking up the state, contribute to the further distance between Kosovo and Metohija from Yugoslavia. We are left with the hope that we have heard from the signatories in the opening statement that, in the event that Montenegro is secededed, Serbia inherits a legal succession of international documents, especially under Resolution 1244. The particular problem is that our fate is decided by those who bombed us for 78 days. In particular, those who directly or indirectly suggest the possibility of Kosovo and Metohija being a special federal unit within Yugoslavia are dangerous and unacceptable, which implies the withdrawal from the Republic of Serbia, and in the event of the disappearance of Yugoslavia, Kosovo would become independent. Because of Serbia-Montenegro's undefined relationship and on the basis of the basics offered in the text, Serbs will find it difficult to survive in Kosovo and Metohija, which is publicly said by representatives of the West, who advocate some kind of democracy and allegedly want multiethnic Kosovo, such as Marek Malicki, who publicly says that Serbs in Kosovo will have a hard time surviving in three years. I consider and share the opinion of 95% of Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija, those who remain, as well as those who are in persecution: there is no survival and no return to the southern Serbian province as long as the Solanic Policy, supported by one or the other line that separates the DOS coalition, and who says - I did it, he is guilty, he contests Serbia's economic rebirth, he does not want Serbia in Europe. Hence, gentlemen of the DOS, I ask you -- will you have the strength to resist; not the present generation born in southern Serbia, but the history to answer, that question. You made a lot of promises during your revolution, and we of yours, call the revolution, have an ever-increasing head-on-the-sand and self-inflicted. (The President - Time) ) Through some changes in the authorities in southern Serbia, favourites in the circle of people close -- whenever it comes to Kosovo... It is time for you -- Deputy Prime Minister Nebojsa Covic, who is trying to prove to the whole of Serbia and the world that he supports and consistently advocates the implementation of Resolution 1244, and, on the other hand, insists on avoiding that, as vice-president of the government, he says - no, and continues to halt the destructive functioning of people who are headed by various associations, which are the image or double-jaw of enemy politics that invented the platform of the break-up of Yugoslavia. [[Zagor, voices - time.]] This policy is...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-09-0.u19854	Mr. Mitrovica, I'm warning you twice that time has gone too far.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-09-0.u19855	Here, for another half minute. That policy sent Kusner to join 50,000 so-called. The peacekeeping force has expelled 300,000 Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija, Hekerupa to adopt constitutional frameworks and conduct elections in Kosovo and Metohija, Steinar to elect a government, president of Kosovo and Metohija. We are wondering what and what decision will be implemented by the next policy commander, who is now proposing the starting ground for the breaking of Yugoslavia, that is, Serbia-Montenegro. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-09-0.u19856	This concludes the debate of the Members of the People's Parliament according to the application for a word. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, report for a word? Here you are, MP Ratimir Svircevic, representative of the parliamentary group Reformists Vojvodina and the Sandzak Democratic Party, followed by MP Pelevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-09-0.u19857	The Honored Presidency, Mr. Prime Minister, fellow MPs, the Vojvodina-Sandzak Democratic Party MPs' club will vote, i.e. to support the initial basis for redecorating relations between Serbia and Montenegro. We'll do it for a few reasons. First of all, because the proposed document is a kind of initiation for the adoption of a new constitution of Serbia and, of course, Yugoslavia, which, if it were to be the subject of this Parliament's work, would not be this opportunity; further, because every certainty in life is even better than uncertainty; and, finally, because we consider it, and it could be concluded from this debate, that any alternative to these starting grounds is a worse variant. There, that's your argument. I'll try to explain them. First, we think the basics allow for a higher degree of freedom in conjecturing and adopting final solutions. So we don't have a concrete solution from which there's no further possibility of certain things being corrected. The Constitutional Charter is yet to be passed, and in this document we have the principle of so-called. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1305/2013. Furthermore, in three years and Serbia-Montenegro, according to the proposed document, can freely, independently, without tension, blackmail, indifference in representing their interests, develop and build their own countries. What we have today is the best way to say that the Socialist People's Party, the SNP, the opposition in its own country, and in power is in the country; as Montenegro does not accept and recognise the decision of the Federal Parliament, especially not the decision of the federal government, practically this hotel's "yathovo-continental" team is the government in Serbia. So Serbia has two governments, two parliaments and a bunch of double institutions. In the Federal Parliament, I will remind you, there are still, in my opinion, representatives of non-existent parties. You know there are still a dozen members in the Federal Parliament, or MPs from the JUL. They need to decide tomorrow whether to pass the Hague tribunal law affects a lot of things, and I don't think they have any basis in the electoral body. Not to mention the question of the costs of the federal administration now. They say there's about 12,000 employees and you'll guess who's paying for it. Tax bonds from Serbia are being paid. For reformists of exceptional importance, the third argument I made here, which is an initiation to change Serbia's constitution. The document says that, in addition to the alignment by the end of 2002, both member states should bring new constitutions. Given that Vojvodina is not questioned in the drafting of this document, it has not been asked in many other things, which is completely unwarranted, I will remind you that Vojvodina is an autonomous province of one of the Member States, I hope that this error will not be repeated in the making of the Constitution, that in such a new constitution we will change the constitutional position of Vojvodina, define it in the right way; we will not bring improvisations and provisions of the type of omnibus law and so on, but we will permanently address the situation. I hope, moreover, that the three-year grace preface is a very important factor because there will be at least one cycle of elections in both Serbia and Montenegro. I say, at least, and theoretically it's possible, and practically, to have more. Perhaps in the next three years some new people, some people who will have better, newer, more reasonable solutions, will come to parliament. Possible, theoretically and practically, that it will not be these current presidents of the republic, neither will the president of the federal state, or the union of Serbia-Montenegro, likely be someone else. It is possible even, both practically and theoretically, that the current prime minister of Serbia will not then be prime minister. I don't know, but it's practically and theoretically possible. I think Mr. Prime Minister agrees with that, and what's wrong with that? Maybe it's possible, and I agree with that, that we'll have better solutions. That three-year-old delay has far more meaning than just, as someone here says, grumbling and so forth. I wish the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia had a three-year grace period. As for the story of the international community acting, someone would say it's a good act, and someone would say it's a bad act, I don't think it's an act. They simply have their melting point, to a certain limit support what they think is reasonable and when they see that it is not possible, then accept that solution as only possible. In this three-year period, what can happen? We could happen to have the same currency. And how? Montenegro won't accept the dinar, but maybe Serbia will accept the euro, here's the same currency. We have different customs duties. The international community will make us agree customs, we'll have the same customs. Are those domains, is that what we want or not? I hope there will be no renamings, I hope that the president of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia will not be renamed president of Serbia-Montenegro, but rather be elected. I hope, for example, that the governor of the National Bank of Yugoslavia will not be renamed but we will choose a new one. These are all the opportunities that, as I say, are being imposed and that I think are positive. So, in any case, it's going towards a new, more efficient and more democratic solution. What is particularly surprising to me here, and given that a large number of MPs here advocates new elections immediately, these basics and their work include elections when the constitution is reorganised, when a new constitution of Serbia is adopted, etc. Vote for this, the election will be sooner if we fight for these changes than what you're always looking for. You're like you'll never be in power, so you're looking for previous elections, even though this is what you're offered here. So we're going to vote for this solution and I'd like, if possible, to convince me there's a better alternative.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-09-0.u19858	The word has been given by MP Borislav Pelevic, an authorised representative of the Soviet Parliament group for this item of the agenda. Are any of the other representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? National MP Branislav Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-09-0.u19859	Dear citizens of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, dear guests, today, a decision will be made today in this high house of Serbia to support the starting grounds for redecorating relations between Serbia and Montenegro. I say, unfortunately, because it will be at the expense of the citizens of Serbia, because that will bring Serbia's citizens once again to be humiliated and demoted. The agreement was signed by three people, completely on their own free will, without the question of the people of Serbia. That's Mr. Kostunica, Mr. Djindjic and Mr. Labus. They did not ask the people of Serbia, through the means of information, or round tables, or public debate, or referendum, or plebiscite. They had already secured the assembly majority in the republic, both in the federal and in the parliament of Montenegro. This is just a simple farce and a verification of the decision you've already made. Everyone interprets this agreement in their own way and it just shows how bad it is for Serbian citizens. He received 90% of support in Montenegro because both the SNP, both the People's Party and the Serbian People's Party, as representatives of the opposition, are for the agreement, but also the ruling DPS Milo Djukanovic. Only two small parties, which do not have a 10% standoff in Montenegro's electoral body, are against it, because they have wanted to start an independent Montenegro, now and immediately, the Liberal Union and the Social Democratic Party. This means only prolonging Montenegro's separation from Serbia, means only continuing torture for three years, when under the agreement Montenegro will have the right to separate itself and when international credibility and international recognition will take place. That's clearly said in this document. But the question arises - what will happen to Kosovo and Metohija after three years? Did you have in mind, Mr. Prime Minister, that the mandate of the Kosovo Assembly and the Government of Kosovo has been verified for three years? So there is a great danger that on the same day, when Montenegro is separated and the common state disappears, both Kosovo and Metohija and gets international recognition for their independence, as an independent Albanian state in Serbia. Have you thought about that, Mr. Prime Minister? I'm sure you haven't, because this means that it will be respected Resolution 1244, under which Kosovo and Metohija are seen as part of Yugoslavia, so the common state. The moment it is gone, the Security Council will deliver a resolution that neither Kosovo nor Metohija are within the common state, because there is nowhere to be Kosovo and Metohija, as this resolution is seen as part of a common state of Yugoslavia that will not already be. Our future is being saved today by others. Serbia is one step at a time losing its independence, its identity, bringing us paper that needs to be signed. Serbia is slowly becoming a semicolon, a state where we Serbs no longer have the right to vote and in which we Serbian citizens no longer decide anything. That's not good, and that's all because we Serbs are the only people in these areas who have not brought their national programme and who have no national goals. All the nations in the environment had their national goals and their national programmes, and Slovenians, and Croats, and Muslims, and even Shipari and Macedonians, only we Serbs didn't know how to bring our national programme. We don't have it today and that's why these things happen, such as this agreement on the starting grounds for redecorating Serbia-Montenegro's relations. And as long as the ruling coalition, in agreement with national institutions such as the Serbian Orthodox Church, the Academy of Science and Arts and other our institutions, don't bring a national programme, this sort of thing will happen to us. We're still wandering. DOS has no strategy to extract this country from the crisis it is in, from the national crisis, from the political crisis, from the security crisis, from the economic and social crisis. The new state will be the scene of conflict within Serbia itself, because, as you know, even in the DOS, no agreement on these starting grounds has been reached. No agreement has been reached in Serbia, Montenegro. All of this is interpreted as appropriate by them: SNP as the victory of the common state, DPS Milo Djukanovic only as pro-longing independent Montenegro for three years. What are we celebrating in Serbia? Nothing. Once again, Serbian citizens have been demoted, humiliated, no one has heard their opinion. What does the name - Serbia-Montenegro mean? It could have been a better name, a more appropriate state in which we are, say, Montenegro or Montenegro Serbia, because it seems to me that worse than where we are today can hardly be. What does the definition mean - positive discrimination? There is discrimination that is discrimination. What does the positive discrimination of Montenegrin MPs mean? I would rather say that it is discrimination against Serbian MPs, or the people of Serbia, Serbian citizens in the federal parliament, who will, behold, be one-homers rather than two-homers. This is neither the Federation nor the Confederation nor the Union. Even the European Union has more in common than Serbia-Montenegro has under this agreement. They have at least a common customs and a common currency -- the euro. We will have it in Montenegro -- the euro, Serbia -- the dinar, Kosovo and Metohija -- the euro. What union is that? It's not the union, nor the Federation, nor the confederacy. What does it mean to serve military service in two states? Of course, every recruit, no matter how patriotic and patriotic, will serve as close as possible to his home. It's normal for all soldiers. We will give this agreement to create a Montenegrin army, which will use the infrastructure that we built in Montenegro, which will use all of our elements that we have given to our army, the former JNA, and now the armies of Yugoslavia. So, by signing this agreement, we participate in the creation of an independent Montenegrin army as elements of a future independent Montenegro. What does a rotation and a chair mean? What kind of chair is this in the United Nations, when someone from Serbia will sit on that chair for a year and a half and a half from Montenegro? Do you think that someone from Montenegro will protect Serbia's interests? Of course not, it will protect only the interests of Montenegro. Montenegro has received two chairs in the United Nations, formally - not legally, but in fact. What does equality and parity mean? How can there be parity between 8.5 million Serbian citizens and 650,000 Montenegrin citizens? There's no such thing as parity. This does not exist anywhere in the world, and this is really only to the detriment of Serbian citizens, especially Serbs living in Serbia. Of course, it is good that this document says elections will be held. It is the only solution, new elections at all levels in Serbia, and local, and republican, both presidential and federal. It is the only way to see exactly what it is worth in this country and that such acts, which harm Serbian and Serbian citizens as a state, are being annulled and annulled. It is quite certain that this cannot be good for Serbian citizens and that this cannot be in favour of Serbian citizens. Because this document is actually separatist, because it provides independent Montenegro, because it poses a major threat to Kosovo and Metohija after three years, because Serbian citizens have been demoted, humiliated by this agreement, the Soviet Union will vote against this agreement.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-09-0.u19860	The word is held by MP Branislav Ivkovic, president of the SPS parliamentary group, and then by MP Zoran Cirkovic, deputy president of the New Serbia parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-09-0.u19861	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, dear Mr Djindjic, I was not comfortable listening to your reaction during the presentation of MP Tomo Busetic, when he spoke about the south of Serbia, nor was I comfortable listening to your reaction to the presentation of MP Sreten Mitrovica, who lives in Caglavica in Kosovo and Metohija today, when he spoke about Kosovo and Metohija. Because of you and your responsibilities to the Serbian people and citizens of Serbia, this document also contains the letter Resolution 1244. In the document, Mr Javier Solana signed that he guarantees that traces of Resolution 1244, since it essentially does not apply in the last year and a half, will apply to Serbia if there is a gap between Montenegro and the Republic of Serbia after three years. Who is Javier Solana, what is he for decision-makers on Resolution 1244? All of you to remind me that Javier Solana is a representative of the European Union, and that Resolution 1244 has been brought by the United Nations Security Council, which at this time has no mild relationship with Solana, only it had to in some way, indirectly, to verify his decision on aggression on our country. I repeat, the SPS believes that the Republic of Yugoslavia, our country, should be weighted into the European Union. We certainly advocate international co-operation, but, I repeat, it is not fair of them to send us Mr Javier Solana here, to inform our Prime Minister Djindjic of what he had previously agreed with President Kostunica. I must say the following about the south of Serbia, that it is certainly part of Serbia and Yugoslavia, and that in that south of Serbia, Mr Covic signs a document on which 24 electoral units, Serbs 14, and Roma three have a relationship of approximately 50%:50%. Covic solves problems, and from Presevo are sudden evictions in the last month and a half. I am also talking about Kosovo and Metohija, where our Sreten Mitrovica is from. He has not been able to tell you that Covic has signed that our education and health system has probably been gone since September for Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. That's what we need to talk about. Let me get back to what we're talking about today. For your sake and for my sake, I would like to read part of the Decision of the Great National Assembly of the Serbian People in Montenegro, brought to a session in Podgorica on 13 November 1918: "The Serbian people in Montenegro are one of the blood, one of the languages and one of the aspirations, one of the faiths and customs with the people living in Serbia and other Serbian regions. They share a glorious past that delights, common ideals, common folk heroes, common suffering, common all that one nation does to the people. When the Serbian state was formed in the Middle Ages under the influence of the famous Nemanjics, immediately at the beginning of its creation, the Serbian people within the borders of today's Montenegro became part of it and played an important role in it for about 200 years." Skipping one piece, I would return only to the Berlin Congress, as interpreted by the participants of the Grand National Assembly of the Serbian People in Montenegro, for today's sake: "At the Berlin Congress, after the bloody war that was waged by Serbia-Montenegro, assisted by brotherly Russia, for the release and unification of its compatriots, Austria managed to deprive them of all fruits and battles and to attract itself two classical Serb areas: Bosnia and Herzegovina, in which the first release rifle broke, and to keep between Serbia and Montenegro, in New Market Sandzak, a populated compact mass of Serbian living, remains the Turkish government, and with it and the Austrian garrisons, and that Austria and Turkey jointly keep Serbia-Montenegro together to keep Serbia-Montenegro from uniting themselves and to try to prevent it." Let those who speak today about Serbia-Montenegro call on the idea of Bosniak people today on the ground of Sandzak. Finally, for Mr Labus, who is negotiating today, is not here, so tell him what the participants of a large gathering of Serbian people in Montenegro have said: "The economic interests of Montenegro are inextricably tied to Serbia and other Serbian parts. Separated from them, and by the very nature of the land, the poorest neighborhood perhaps in the whole world, it would not have any conditions for an independent life, it would be predicated to death. Therefore, the economic interest of the Serbian people in Montenegro is also imperatively seeking unification with brothers in Serbia and other parts of our country. Political interests also require unification. In addition to the large united Yugoslavia, what a poor political significance small, weak and poor Montenegro would have, we don't think it is necessary to highlight it in particular." As a result, the SPS parliamentary group, meaning that the Assembly's Rules of Procedure would be respected, proposed conclusions. It is procedurally understood that this assembly should not adopt a document signed beyond its knowledge and which is now given to it here. This document can only be evaluated and given its opinion, conclusions about it, and it does not now vote. That's why we made the next suggestion. Starting with the way envisaged for the discussion of the document The initial basis for redecorating Serbia-Montenegro's relations with the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the SPS parliamentary group in the National Assembly proposes the following conclusions: 1. The initial grounds for redecorating Serbia-Montenegro's relations do not define the clear enough character of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro and its competence. We propose that during the drafting of the constitutional document the basis be the following positions: the survival of the common state condition of further development, peace and stability in the Balkans and the entire region. Her disappearance would be contrary to the centuries-old pledges of many generations of the Serbian and Montenegrin people. The SRJ is the best choice for Serbs and Montenegrins, for all citizens, as well as for achieving the national and state interests of the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro, is the guarantee of independence, progress and freedom. Serbian-Montenegron citizens have the right to decide whether they want a common state. There are minimum powers that each common country must have in order to be of interest to the Republic of Member States. Otherwise, it would be a fictitious common state. It is therefore necessary to create a modern and efficient common state as a Federation. It is necessary both to create an ambience of a socially fair market economy, to achieve democracy and human rights, and to associate equally with the European and the rest of the world. In addition to a single international subjectivity based on a decades-long continuity, federal Yugoslavia must have a single defence and foreign affairs system and policy, a single system of realisation and protection of human rights and a single economic space. Efficient economic planning involves a unique economic space with full freedom of movement of goods, services, workers and capital, freedom of establishment of businesses and banks, one coin, one central bank, a single customs system and one customs tariff, fiscal federalism, value added tax and a federal budget with significant own sources of income. 2. The Constitutional Commission to be formed to produce a constitutional document, a constitutional charter, should be drawn up on a parity principle with the participation of all parliamentary parties in the republican assemblies and in the SRJ Assembly. 3. Thus, the constitutional document is referred to the citizens of Serbia-Montenegro for a statement through the referendum, given the fact that citizens are the holders of the sovereignty of the state. These are the conclusions that the SPS through its parliamentary club proposes to you for adoption. I want to say in the end, and Prime Minister Djindjic pointed out here that the current constitution was at the expense of Serbia. They really are. In particular, the 1974 Constitution, which introduced the borders to a single state, introduced the Tarabes, for the sake of Cardeli's ideas on secessionism of Slovenia and Serbia from Yugoslavia. By constitutional changes in 1990, we became a normal state. It is certain that today is not easy for those who respond today, for they had a majority in the federal and republican elections. It is not pleasant to listen to Mr Kostunica who accepts as the 199 banana states in the UN celebrates saying that Yugoslavia is preserved. After a year he says Yugoslavia is gone. I think it is the responsibility of DOS leaders today to organise a round table attended by representatives of all parliamentary parties in both the Republic of Serbia and the SRJ, as well as to agree on a consensus of national interests that we will not pursue, which will not be arguments for inter-party bickering. Simply, you who now have the current majority in the federal and republican parliament have the majority responsibility to gather all political processions here on the ground of Serbia, to agree on what is a consensus on national interests, which there is no bickering about, to act together, to act as a whole where there is no crack that can become a developmental and exploited externally. If we act in such a unique way, if we agree on national interests, I believe that the international community will accept such a unique attitude. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-09-0.u19862	The word comes from MP Zoran Cirkovic, deputy president of the New Serbia parliamentary group. Are any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, answering for a word? No, I don't. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-09-0.u19863	Madam President of the Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, the New Serbia parliamentary group is in a debate that preceded this final statement set out certain reserves according to the text of the initial basis for the re-arrangement of the Serbia-Montenegro common state. For that reason, our reserve, I won't repeat it. There are simply things built into these basics, which we believe the state with such foundations does not have its future. First, although I suppose it is a good intention of the international community to overcome the initial point of conflict and dispute by harmonising economic relations, unfortunately we do not believe that harmonisation will be possible, because already the first stage of these relations is metastasism; metastasis of economic relations, metastasis of mutual trust, etc. It is true that the European Union has given Montenegro the exclusive right to use the euro as its coin, although it is not a member of the monetary union. As she did, she can suspend him. At this point, we are truly expressing our suspicion that a common state is possible if there is no common currency, and finally there is no monetary union. Furthermore, I must remind - the opposition in this House ten years ago, in 1992, was biosceptive to the creation of a common state, particularly it was really negatively determined by the way it was formed, according to the Frog Constitution and, finally, by the name of the common state. For example, I remember then that Mr Djindjic and I boycotted in the federal parliament the declaration of a common state. No one from the opposition supported the project at the time. Now things have just turned a little bit. We just had a chance to hear an SPS representative referring to the great liquids of the Podgorica Assembly. The Podgorica Assembly, Mr. Ivkovic, has been condemned by the communists. The communists did not recognise the Podgorica Assembly's decision for the simple reason that they had already declared a national national entity in the Balkans at the Dresden Congress. I don't really know how far that nacho mind of yours goes, does that mean you'll be reaffirming Congress decisions in the village of Ba. I'm not really sure what that metamorphosis of yours is, etc. After all, agree with Mr Tomislav Nikolic, he will give you, I suppose, instructions that will be useful to both you and them as bearers of failed authority. So, once again, the New Serbia parliamentary group does not dispute the need for a common state. If such a country is needed and clearly necessary, it is necessary on a sound basis. Slow this paper down. For this reason, we will not support the agreement on the starting points between Serbia and Montenegro. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-09-0.u19864	Thank you. The right to a replica, MP Branislav Ivkovic, and then the right to a replica has a National MP, Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-09-0.u19865	I apologize to the MPs for wasting my time, but I simply can't help but comment on a wasteful wish that is often present with those who have no arguments that they are mostly trying to attach a communism label to today's socialists and members of the SPS. I have to say that personally, as a child born in that Yugoslavia, Tito's Yugoslavia in 1952, I am very pleased with the way I had my childhood and youth and that I would so much like my children to live that way. Finally, at the time of this communism, we were really in one development, but the trouble is that many who and what benefits they acquired during that communist period forgot it. Many doctors today would have guarded sheep if it hadn't been for this educational system that allowed every wise and valuable man to be educated and treated for free. But, Mr. Cirkovic, as your brother Desimir Ćirkovic's great friend and friend, he is a socialist man, I must say, and to explain to you that the Socialists have introduced a market economy into this country, that the Socialists have started the privatisation process, that the Socialists have introduced a multi-party system and formed the first multi-party assembly and we are a stone buffer from what was wrong with communism, which is a planned economy. We have introduced a market economy, but we have kept from that time on the drive to create human society, social justice and solidarity.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-09-0.u19866	The right to replicate, MP Tomislav Nikolic, also to present MP Zoran Ćirkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-09-0.u19867	I don't know why I bothered the speaker. I, as always, just gave him the right word for what he called Congress in the village of Ba. Of course, it was never a convention, and I belong to an opposition party that was for this Federal Republic of Yugoslavia in 1992, as the only then opposition party. Since you said it was a failed former regime, which I belonged to myself, let me tell you -- while we were in the government of the Republic of Serbia, we made bridges, and you, while supporting the Government of the Republic of Serbia, are building a tobacco factory. Now that you hit the cornerstone, you seem to be able to object a little bit to Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, who certainly won't forget that. I know him very well, and I know those who belong to his political party. I'd appreciate it, even though you look like you're from the 19th century, but I'd appreciate it a lot more if you were stuck in Chačka to build a cookie factory, a cookie factory, something kids would look forward to. And you made the tobacco factory, that our children were being poisoned even more, that your gentleman went to Cyprus and said he was the vice president of the Republic of Serbia, so that you could make money for your parliamentary group some more, but "the cat came to the door" and all of you that you got from Zoran Djindjic for a cookie while he needed your vote, you'll soon get those cookies back.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-09-0.u19868	The word is made by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Zoran Djindjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-09-0.u19869	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, surely no one expected the debate on this subject, which is complicated and difficult, to be simple. It has been serious and to the most extent very argumentable, with observations that have been explained, with some who have had logical reasons, but unfortunately they are difficult to connect to reality, because our reality is not always very logical, but there are many things that are irrational, and the reality is such that it is not only made up of arguments and logic. I'm going to try briefly to comment on the subject and comment on the subject with a few sentences, and in order not to repeat what I said at the beginning and in the opening statement, I just want to repeat two or three attitudes, which, in part, might be a little twist, and so it was attributed to me that I said something that I didn't. I'll repeat what I'm firmly convinced of. The first thing I firmly believe is that Serbia is not losing anything with this agreement and constitution that will be made under this agreement. Serbia will not lose any of what it has now. Surely it is a very arbitral question to assess what Serbia now has; because, as in every life, people sometimes count on what they want and what they think they have, although someone else is challenging or depending on someone else, and they think they have the support of the other and finally, there are things that they have themselves. So, from what Serbia is now, as its political influence, its powers and opportunities to define its fate, it has, it will lose nothing by this agreement, on the contrary. I want to repeat what I said a few days ago: Serbia will certainly lose nothing from what it has now and what it has from the common state. We can discuss why the common state is now no more than we would like to have; whether it is just a matter of the last few years, or if it is a defect embedded in this political space; that it is very difficult to establish partnership relations between the larger and the smaller; that it is very difficult to ensure the unity of the longer term; it may be a question for another debate; but we are politicians who need to solve the current problems and we currently have a common state that is a complete fiction. That's why I don't think it's right to make an impression that we're losing something and it's not right that some people, who don't have the courage to face a reality that's not pleasant, look for refuge in fiction and then say -- we have a country that's being torn apart, we have Yugoslavia and we want to live in it, we have a good constitution that just needs to change it in a certain way, a little bit, and it's going to work, because there's a good state in 1992. That's just not true. Simply not only is it not true that this common state is now not working at all, but it is not true that the constitutional order worked in 1992. You have the Constitution that you received when you were elected MPs to come here and take an oath; then the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, in whose final provisions it was intended to be implemented, to bring 40 important laws into force within a certain time, so that this constitution could take over the powers that the founding members had prescribed; it was foreseen in1992. the years when that constitution was adopted, that those powers should then be transferred, agreed with that constitution and implemented; that the two members of that common state should transfer their competences to that common state. Then you have on page 69 the first shift of the deadline, so it will not happen that year, but it will happen next year; then on the next page you have the second shift of the deadline from 1993, so it will not happen until 31 March 1993 but by 31 December 1993; then on the next page you have the next shift of the deadline and will not happen until 31 December 1993, but by 30 September 1994. On the next page, you have a re-route, so it won't happen until December 31st 1994, but by December 31st 1995, so it never happened. So, that constitution never worked. In 1992, he was not a good constitution. He was created on unrealistic grounds as a false federal constitution, which actually had a confederal basis in it, but there was no courage to say it. Why didn't you say that in 1992? If we already have the confederal elements, let's call them that, so let's say -- we look the truth in the eyes, we have a problem, it consists of the confederal structure of that state, and let's slowly treat this problem, and not let it grow behind us and then -- the moment a federal unit says: I don't recognise that constitution -- that state has no mechanism to solve it except to send an army and cause war. This crisis, which is 1996. I1997. it broke out to the surface, it was systematically embedded in that Constitution in 1992 and in all previous constitutions. It was not this 1992 constitution that brought nothing new, it is the history of our confederal constitutionality in these areas. And that's why I said it a few days ago, maybe I'm exaggerating a little bit, all of the constitutions since 1918 were at the expense of Serbia, because in all these constitutions there was a mechanism to control the larger one, but not to notice it, but in the name of Slovenia, the Croat brothers, Slovenians and Serbs, or I don't know who, in the name of brotherhood and unity, and in the name of love of the smaller one, were all excuses for one mechanism, which ultimately led the unsatisfactory and growing appetites of the smaller ones. That's enough of that. Let's be mature people and look the truth in the eye, let's say -- it's very hard to make an alliance between one big and one small. We want it, both of us want it, but let's understand that it can't be brotherhood and unity -- it's all in common, with this larger one then giving a lot more and making a lot more sacrifices. It becomes a problem over time. But it's better to say openly what the facts are and, based on these facts, we try to make a minimum first, so if we can and if we want both sides over time more and more to increase things together. I was against that 1992 constitution, for the same reasons I speak today. I, if anyone remembers, started the topic in 1994: one man - one voice. I have initiated the topic that Serbia must actually increase its rights in the common state, and I have encountered a general condemnation both with the government and with the opposition, both in Serbia and Montenegro. Everyone said -- they want to tear up the state; because what is wrong with having two larger ones and being both confederal; what is wrong with having parity in the federal government and that some people not elected in Serbia's territory exercise power in Serbia's territory, why not, if the two parties in power agree on it? But that's not a long-term solution. As soon as these two parties have a fight, the state falls apart. Tito's Yugoslavia existed at the Communist Party, not at people's standard. We can talk hours and hours about how this standard is artificially real, how artificially a civil class was created, without private economy, through a forced basis of civil class and middle class credits. And perhaps one news for you, Mr. Ivkovic, since 1982, that state has not returned loans. The first stand-by arrangement was made in 1982 and after that we returned interest for a time, and then we paid no interest, no credit. So two years after Tito's death, that state fell into its crisis. Five years after Tito's death, the country began to fall apart, as the Communist Party began to fall apart, and the state rested, at the unity of the party that led the country. It's not a good country that rests on a party, it's not a good country whose survival depends on consent, or the disagreement of party oligarchies, whether they're good or not good; they change. The state must be stable and rest on grounds that do not depend on personal relations between party elites. I think that after so many years we've matured to look the truth into our eyes and say, we have one problem, to set up a community in these spaces, and Mom and many other problems, we'll have a problem in a year to define our relationship with Kosovo. And the same thing is going to be a maximumist who's going to say -- we want him to come back like nothing happened, we want everything we think is meant to be. We're going to have a problem defining reality together and finding instruments to get out of this reality maximum for our country and our people, but that's what we're planning to do, not bring in some declarations that we know at the moment of adoption that they won't be implemented into life. We've got three years left, and I'm sorry it's three years, I think it's one problem, but three years isn't so little. The question is, what are we going to do in those three years? If we don't do anything in three years, then we'll be 30 years away, because we live in a world that happens more in a year than in the last 10 or 20 years. If we fail in three years to establish one state operating in this space, which has its clear goals and instruments to implement them, it will not help us for another three or six years. So three years are a little bit, it's a problem that it got into an agreement, but it's also a reality. It is not true that after three years, there will be an automatic statement, neither in Serbia nor in Montenegro. It is necessary to meet certain conditions, to review this constitution after three years. We will see if there will be a majority political mood in Montenegro and whether these conditions will be met. On the other hand, from the moment these conditions are met, until the time when the review procedure and the possible referendum will be conducted, it will take some time. This will not coincide with that time for Kosovo and Metohija. So it will not happen that in the same year we have before the Security Council a question of Kosovo and Metohija's status and that we have, possibly, a review of relations between Serbia and Montenegro. But they're close, the weather's close. We couldn't have too much influence on that deadline to extend anything. Someone's upset that the country's name is Serbia-Montenegro. I've had enough against the name Yugoslavia before. I haven't been that much lately. I think it has entered into some international use and people have started to see us as a single country without asking Dubrovnik, and, I don't know, Bled, is this Yugoslavia, but they're beginning to realize it's Belgrade. It is certain that for the next two or three years, if the name Yugoslavia remained, that name would have some international recognition, most importantly. So I don't have any relationship with it, let's say, at any cost, let's get rid of that name. But on the other hand, I can't understand anyone saying -- Serbia, that's Trinidad; well, then, that Serbia will find itself on an international agreement and that the name of Serbia will be in international political circulation, that's something that is humiliating; and it says -- it's a humiliating solution, especially for the citizens of Serbia, because on behalf of the state it's mentioned Serbia; and then it's "Black Serbia", and then it's "Gora Serbia". I don't understand that. That's what I said in the opening statement. I think it's gonna be hard -- anthem, symbols, identifying citizens with it, but it's been hard for the past few years. People whistled anthem, people didn't get up in the anthem. So, don't idealize, so you say - so far it's been very nice and now there's an evil man from the NATO Pact and he's taken our dream away. Well, it wasn't exactly a dream. There was a lot of nightmare about it. We found the state in freefall, the country that was falling, there was no telling where to stop. I have to admit, I was surprised by the degree of destruction among some people in Montenegro. But you get to know people in historical situations, you can't normally know what people are like sometimes when they get to know themselves when they come into a crisis, so they act so that they surprise themselves. But the degree of preparedness to go to the end was very high. That -- to the end -- wouldn't leave Serbia without consequences either. Now we've stopped that free fall. We couldn't stop him and get the situation back five years. No, he's stopped where this country is now. It means that we now have a chance to build it up in the next few years, to gradually get out of the crisis, or not to do much and continue this free fall. But we didn't lose anything. It's not true that there's something legitimate here, legalized, that's not otherwise recognized. So that sometimes we have a prejudice, that we have to verify something to make the world admit it, it's just not true. The existence of this kind of Montenegro was a little bit more over the facts, Montenegro received direct assistance from both the European Union and international organisations, nothing went through the federal administration. We insisted on it, it didn't happen, and it gradually, after a few years, as a de facto independent state, entered international political traffic. So now they didn't need to get some verification. Of course that would have made things easier for us to say -- that independence is definitely recognised now, because of internal relations is easier, but because of international relations, it's not some certificate that we issue that's particularly important, so to think about it now -- well, now we've given them something that they're going to be happy with and then they've achieved their historic separatist goal. I would say that we, in earlier constitutional projects, were always going from pretty big ambitions, and 1918, and 1945 and 1992, and somehow more in our intentions, made some construction, so that, on the first day after that, and then from year to year, we would give up a little bit of it and try to narrow down to some real measure, but since that plan was bound, then, in the end, it all happened somehow behind the back, somehow in the dark, and somehow this original project was shrinking, shrinking, until in the end, it turned into its opposite. Now, for the first time, we're going the other way around. We define something that's really minimal. A minimum of that is not possible, I agree with you -- a minimum of that is not possible, but that is the point from which we can start building, if we will, if there is a will and if there is a majority in Serbia-Montenegro. I don't like it, and I don't like it when we talk about Montenegro, we talk about underestimation, we don't like it, it's part of the Serbian state, that it's part of the same people, that we don't give it, and I don't know what everything; and then after that, we say they need a tripod to sit down or they need a sofa to lie down, because they don't normally do it, and they're giving birth; so if it's that way you're trying so hard; well, what's the community going to do with someone you have such a bad opinion. Indeed, I think that Montenegro was also humiliated in one country where high competencies, at least formal, had organs in which people who did not go to the elections in Montenegro were seated. I would also feel guilty if I were to make a decision in Belgrade concerning the citizens of Montenegro, and my party would never go to the elections in Montenegro. I think that what applies to Serbia is also true of Montenegro, and that is why until a single political space is established, until we have significant, large parties running across the whole area, until there are more issues -- the party from Montenegro, the party from Serbia -- but a party that rests on the political programme, on the economic programme, so its candidates and lawmakers are running across the area, so far as we can't have strong joint institutions. Because strong joint institutions do not mean to give a mandate to someone who will exercise authority in a territory where he is not elected. It's not good and it's not federalism. So we came up with one point where we had to define that this thing is going uncontrollable or we could stop it where it is, so we could try to do something over the next few years. I now come to five or six specific topics and concrete objections. The first to be quite serious, I would call it a procedural objection, he says -- we have a federal constitution, what it is, that this procedure of changing the constitution should go in a way described in that constitution, which means first in the Federal Assembly, then the two-thirds majority, and then go to the republican congregations, so it goes back to the Federal Assembly, and in principle it's true. But that would be true if we didn't have a constitutional crisis. And that's not unknown. So we're not the first in history to have constitutional crises. There are often constitutional crises. For example, in the 20s, JJ had many constitutional crises in Europe, and that was where state and constitutional theories were created. One of the most influential at the time, about, was based on the attitude -- if the legal norm doesn't work, go back to life and see what that legal norm has regulated. If the Constitution does not work, return to political reality and see what forces exist in political reality. Are they ready, and based on a new arrangement, to produce a new legal standard? That you're just going to spin around in circles and that one constitution that doesn't touch reality changes, that you're making most that are fictional, that won't affect political reality and political life, and the purpose of norms is to edit life. That means -- the main reason why the Federal Assembly didn't have an initiative is because the Federal Assembly isn't working, as its decisions apply to one federal unit of only two. That we have a state with 20 federal units, and then one doesn't participate, not half the trouble. But we have a state of two federal units, one of which doesn't participate, so we don't actually have federal organs. They exist there, they take a place for some we hoped would come, so the Federal Assembly exists, and that's why there are, all these institutions that actually only double the institutions of Serbia, because we didn't want it to be accepted immediately, because then it would be a problem, so we would have de facto two separate states. But it doesn't have to be translated into the illusion now that this Federal Assembly really exists, and then -- to believe in its own fiction. No, I don't. The Federal Assembly was and is a useful fiction, because it keeps a status post for a congregation that will have jurisdiction in both federal units, but try to regulate their relations, starting with a place that really doesn't work in both federal units, would be a waste of time. It would just mean fixing something that doesn't actually work. That's why we went down to political reality. We are here on another problem and another objection, and that is -- who is all consulted when finding this solution. I don't mean in the sense of being informed, because that's where I said my opinion, but in the sense of who decided. When we come from the level of standards to the level of political life, the question is which political forces should be involved. Is everything? Are there just some? It is usually to include those forces that have a sufficient majority to maintain that solution or dispute. So, all the ones that matter. It's the same principle of political theory. You must get the support of those forces whose support is important for a solution to be accepted or without whose support this solution would be destroyed, if they are strong enough to block it on the street, in parliament or in some institutions. It is then a political majority that is, in part, the result of the assessment, and the second result of political intuition and some expectation. Approximately, if anyone agrees with it, is he strong enough to start some kind of force tomorrow and say, "We're tearing it down." Well, if you think it is, you have to win it. It was difficult in Montenegro because it was two in its strength, almost aligned, parties and coalitions, and it was necessary to have one and the other in the agreement. Because, without one or the other, the possibility that the power not involved in the agreement was destructively effective was very realistic. And that is why these two parties or their representatives have equally participated in the conclusion of this agreement and we can say that anyone who is a Democrats today must admit that 80% of Montenegro is for the deal. And if someone now wants to defend Montenegro's interest more than the politicians in Montenegro, I don't think that's right, that no one has the right to define now the position of Montenegrins, except for those who have chosen to define it. With what right can anyone, whether they have won one percent of the vote in Montenegro or not at all, can now say - Montenegrins are this or that; if we have political representatives on these issues who went to elections, they have the votes they have received and have two equal groups. They said, like us, this agreement isn't great, but it's better than the condition that it feels and gives it a chance to fix it. Yes, he asks how it is in Serbia. In principle, the ruling coalition, which won the elections, took part in Serbia, I don't know how many, 60% or 65% of the vote, which has the right majority in parliament to vote on it. That assumption was, and that it was quite enough political circle to make a decision. Again, I say - for consultation, a little wider circle should be chosen for negotiation, but to make a decision in each democratic country would be enough for the majority. Someone argues and says -- but that was the election a year and a half ago, now and every such occasion should be held by a new election. I must disappoint you. According to public opinion studies, the new election would not have brought you much. You who think you would challenge that most of this solution... They wouldn't bring you most of it, really. [[growls]] If you want to test the force of the earth every time, you're going to jump from the tenth floor every time? [[growls]] Smart people don't always check, from time to time... And that's why, ladies and gentlemen, it's been established... [[elevator.]] in parliamentary democracies, which have a little longer experience than ours, that elections are held every four years. [[growls]] And those who have a little shorter fuse, they would every month. Because, actually... Here, some would every day. You'd better do some other things every day. The elections are an opportunity for everyone to read and learn from state theory, from democracy theory, from the theory of parliamentaryism, because making a country of ringishil, where everyone would like, whenever he likes, to get in anywhere and go anywhere, it's tearing the country apart. [[Applause]] Every four years, the elections give stability to a particular political orientation that has won the majority, and if someone slows it down every two months, then leave parliament, because parliament has been elected to four years. But I didn't want to comment much, I think both Serbia and Montenegro have consulted relevant political forces, forces that will, by their vote in parliament, say their views on the concept proposed here. The third problem mentioned here - why is no referendum organised in Serbia? Now, we have one level, some would seem to want to lose the election every three months, and if it's their pleasure, it's not ours -- really. So we have a problem that the Constitution does not work and its change in a constitutional way would not solve the problem. We bring it down to the next level, which is the political forces that, by their agreement, express the political majority, legitimateized in the elections, and these political forces have reached some agreement. The question arises, and why not a referendum, why not go one step further and say - these political forces are not enough, why not have a referendum organised in Serbia to check what the people think about it, does the people want such a common state? Ladies and gentlemen, there is a procedure, an orderly procedure for calling a referendum. No one is stopping anyone from launching this procedure and then seeing if there is a mood for a referendum in Serbia, but I think it is somewhat irresponsible to expect the motion of a document, which believes the document is good, to propose a referendum. Well, suggest him you who doubt it. I have not seen that there are organised political forces in Serbia that asked for people to be declared to the Serbia-Montenegro community in a referendum, as they exist in Montenegro. If there were, I guess we'd see them. There are individuals, there are parties, but they don't have nearly enough majority to put the issue on the agenda. If they have a majority, of course the referendum will be on the agenda, but it doesn't look like it. That means, the referendum would just be to run away from the political responsibility of those who got the political majority to make political decisions and I don't think that would be a good political move. The fourth is one specific issue; it is disputed that this solution is good because it does not guarantee a single market. There are, of course, reasons to object. Indeed, at this moment, there is no single market and indeed there are different customs rates, different currencies and different regulations for the operation of enterprises in Serbia and Montenegro, and that is the situation found. However, when we talk about the single market, there are two arguments; one is political and one is economic. The political argument says -- we have to have a state that works within ourselves so that we can come to the world as a single legal subjectivity and that's the right argument. If we make agreements that apply only to a part of the territory and not to the whole territory, then we'll have a problem with our partners in international relations. We've solved that question. We have also resolved the issue of debt, debt payments and borrowing, so that practically both Serbia-Montenegro assume their share of obligations, and that through the federal administration we negotiate with international lenders, creditors or already who is a partner. This solves the political issue. There remains an economic issue that is realistic, which means that within our territories, there is a part where one of the principles of economic business applies, and on the other hand, the other. That would be a serious question if we had two federal units of the same size. However, as Montenegro accounts for five to seven percent of the total common market, do you think we will have some serious economic disturbances, if some other principles apply to five to seven percent of the common market for a while than the other 93%. Do you think it's an interest of a larger market to open a smaller market; do you think Serbia's concern is that it now has access to a market of 500,000 or 600,000 people; or do you think the smaller one should have a life-interest to come to a larger market. Well, let me tell you, in the history of the community, they can be seen because of the desire to get a bigger market, and not because of the wishes of the larger ones to have a smaller market. And I expect that in the coming period there will be a major initiative of Montenegro's economy to regain access to Serbia's market, as Serbia has a huge effort to gain access to Romania's market, and not for example to another smaller market, because it is always a smaller desire to open up to itself a market that is bigger to offer its products and services. As far as customs duties are concerned, we will be forced in the next two or three years to change our customs duties, and Montenegro and Serbia; this means that Serbia should reduce slightly, and Montenegro will increase slightly, as we are in negotiations with the World Trade Organisation, which has certain customs rates from both countries through Yugoslavia. We have a little bit more to protect our industry, and in Montenegro there's a little less because there's no industry, but we're going to have to adapt them both, and we're going to meet somewhere in the middle. That would happen even if we were two independent states, as we will have with Bosnia, with Croatia, with Romania, with Bulgaria similar customs rates, because we are all in the same harmonisation process with the European Union and with the World Trade Organisation. It's not our success, it's just the trend that's in Europe in the region. But there's nothing to worry about. During that time, we will have, of course, border control between Serbia and Montenegro for the reason it was listed here; because while in Montenegro customs is lower, there is a danger that our economy will be damaged, as it will enter our market for goods that will be competitive with our industry and then lose the meaning of our customs. That's understood, it's not in the agreement, but it's certain that this mechanism will continue for a while. The fifth objection was that there would be high costs due to new passports and other personal documents, which were regulated at the federal level. That's where I have to tell you that for the sake of safety and protection against counterfeiting, we're going to have to change those documents in the next year and a half. In the visa waiver arrangements for our country with European Union countries, one of the main conditions is that we have documents that are resistant to counterfeiting, which are not ours. Our passports are easily falsified. So we have several conditions, and one of these conditions that is being implemented is that we will have to, whether we stay in Yugoslavia or that we are Serbia-Montenegro, if we want to go in the direction of visa waiver, to change the personal documents that apply abroad, so it is not some strong, contrary or special cost. And the last thing I want to comment briefly is an army. First, the fact that everyone forgot that the Supreme Defence Council had decided otherwise, while Milosevic decided at some point by consensus. So now the Supreme Defence Council is in command of the army, not the president of Yugoslavia, but the Supreme Defence Council. And it didn't bother for a while, but all of a sudden, it's now showing up as an army break-up. Then, which is very surprising to me, although it speaks a little bit about our mentality, it's the view that if people can choose where the army will serve, it's the destruction of the army. I remember, when I was in the army, then it was 12 months ago -- (Tomislav Nikolic throws you out of place), since I graduated from college, unlike you, Mr. Nikolic, who was 15 months old, when you came, the first hour you had, the captain lined you up there and said -- you're not here to think, you're here to follow orders. And the less you think, the better a soldier you are. That was the theory, the bigger the dril, the more harassing you and the less your rights are, the better the army was supposed to be. That time has passed. Ladies and gentlemen, there are human rights and she will be in force in this country as well. I don't see any problem with why someone who's from Podgorica wouldn't serve military service in Podgorica, why someone who's from Leskovec wouldn't serve in Nis, but is obliged to serve in Subotica or Somboro; why his relatives couldn't visit him every weekend; why would the army be a repression with us. Why? Does that increase the military's performance? Was the army not thinking about it successful, but were the warrants carried out? Who guarantees your warrants were smart? If they were smart, why did we end up here where we are now, to get things out of the cracks? Why? Ladies and gentlemen, I mean sometimes, come on, think at least sometimes voluntary things aren't bad. Don't think what's on the force is always good. Don't always think what's imposed is good. Don't think that in the 21st century he'll be able to impose something on the citizens for a long time. Citizens have their rights, pay taxes, join the army, and they will reform the army according to their rights. Citizens will have the right in this country to serve an army where they choose, if it is not the opposite of some strategic and military interests. It is certainly not the opposite that if anyone wants to come from Podgorica to Belgrade, Sombor or Saturday. If he doesn't want to, then let everyone stay and serve the army wherever they want. I think, I end up with this agreement rests on its own free will. He wasn't imposed by anyone, in terms of dictated text. He's the result of the condition of things that are the way it is. Because that's the situation, I'm optimistic that, starting with this state of affairs, we can make one state that after a hundred and a few years will finally work.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-09-0.u19870	The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic, right on the line. Is it base that you didn't join the army right after college?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-09-0.u19871	The basis for the replica is the dissatisfaction that I have to listen for an hour to the Prime Minister, a philosopher, who here in all ways insults us, but you, of course, do not remind him because there are no 3,000 dinars out of that notice, so you can't boast after having secured funds for some kind of humanitarian funds. We've been listening here to everything and everything, especially the attack on the army. I ask Mr Djindjic that the Yugoslav Army, which defended itself from the NATO Pact, does not attack. There were a lot of radicals in it, there were members of my family. During that time, you were with your friends abroad. Don't touch the Yugoslav army. Don't say anything about it. I can give you some smart advice. I always give you smart advice. I advise you to call the elections as soon as possible while the SRS is blocked on state media and while your party members give you the results of the research you are most popular with, by which you will surely win. If you want to know how much the people appreciate you, disguise yourself a little, Mr. Djindjic, get a little closer to gestures so they don't recognize you and go ask the citizens of Serbia if they're satisfied with the government that really brought us to Montenegro's level. There's no production in them, but there's no production, for God's sake, not even with us anymore. Let me remind you how sweet your power is, how nice it's gotten into your head and your pockets. On March 9, 1991, you were on the streets looking for new elections, only three months after the elections you lost. Do you remember how you were acting then? What happened in 1997? You boycotted the election, and after three days, you asked for new elections. That fear of choice will have to be over once. The election must be waiting for you. Then you won't have this kind of vote support in the Serbian Parliament. When fear catches you, then as a pack you group together, you laugh grouply. Just one more thing. You have really offended many Serbian citizens by saying some sexism in the Assembly, which should not be allowed. Well, here, since this lesbian network is laughing, let me just tell you something: what you recommended to the individuals here, you do to the people every day, Mr. Djindjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-09-0.u19872	The word is made by the Prime Minister, Mr. Zoran Djindjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-09-0.u19873	I was talking about the army I was in. That was 1979. Mr. Nikolic, if you don't tell the difference for 20 years, then you have a little more problems than political ones. Secondly, if that's what this is about, I never disguise myself. All the time, and then today I spoke, once with a smaller political success, sometimes with a bigger one. You are master of disguise, from patriotic folklore to wisdom, from moderation, to extremism. Indeed, like that rooster in the wind that revolves around whom you do not know where it will stand and in which direction it will point. I advised your MP to read something every day about the theory of state and democracy so as not to ask for elections every day to realize that the election term is four years to keep the state stable. I don't know what you see in that, if I wasn't exaggerating now like you, but in any case, it would be called psychoanalysis. So you see something in that I didn't say. No sexism was that elections in parliamentary democracies were held every four years. It's just a principle where there's no sex, it's a purely political theory.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-09-0.u19874	Mr. Ivkovic, you can do business, there is no basis for replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-09-0.u19875	Mr Djindjic, you have been a People's MP and please explain to the President of the Assembly that as an MP, I have the right to a replica if the speaker misreads me - Article 98(4). I'm looking for my right to a replica by the Rules of Procedure, because I'm misread. I simply have the right to my own emotion about Yugoslavia in which I lived, a country that, above all, satisfied my Serbian people's right to live in one country, without jeopardizing the right of any other people. If that time was characterized by the Central Committee and Tito, this time is characterized by the DOS Politbiroom. All I can say is, that Yugoslavia fell apart after Tito, and this one's falling apart in your time. (Tomislav Nikolic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-09-0.u19876	Mr. Nikolic, you have no right to a replica. I didn't give you my word. You've already used it once. Mr. Nikolic, please step away from the pay phone because I didn't give you my word. According to Article 98(3), my discretionary authority is to decide whether you have the right to replication or not. This time I decided you didn't have any. You just had the right to a replica, now you don't. I'm finishing the search. I am voting on the document of the initial basis for redecorating Serbia-Montenegro's relations. For 146, against 79, a abstentioned one, three of the 229 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly adopted most of the votes a document of the initial basis for redecorating Serbia-Montenegro's relations. I'm setting a break to 15.00 hours. [[After break - 16.05.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please insert your cards into the MPs to determine the quorum. I figure we have a quorum and we can keep working. I thank you for your patience with those who came in time. There was a delay because there were two Assembly committees and I ask the presidents of the Assembly committees not to appoint committees during the meeting anymore. We move to the fourth item of the agenda: - PROPOSAL OF THE WEIGHT LAW AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE SPECIFIC ASSESSMENT (joint principled search with amendments to the Health Protection Act) I remind you that the National Assembly has taken the decision to conduct a joint principle search on these two draft laws and that the total time for discussion is five hours. I am opening a joint principle search on the draft law amending and supplementing the Health Insurance Act and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act. Does the proposing official, Professor Zarko Korac, vice-president of the Republic of Serbia, want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-09-0.u19878	Madam President, honourable Members of Parliament, with the view that you have united this debate, I will first discuss amendments and additions to the Health Insurance Act, and then amendments and additions to the Health Protection Act. The reason for the adoption of the law amending and supplementing the Health Insurance Act is primarily in order to bring it into line with the Labour Act, which entered into force on 21 December 2001. It can be said that the proposed amendments and additions, and with regard to the earlier amendments to the Health Insurance Act of May 2001, the implementation of the reform in the health insurance system, with the aim of harmonising with the principle of gross earnings, begins. So the proposed changes are aimed at definitely abandoning the net principle of billing earnings during the temporary prevention to work. As the Labour Act newly regulated the income and the right of the employee to receive income during temporary prevention for the work of the employer, as well as the right to leave the work of the employed parent due to the necessary special care of the child due to the difficult degree of psychophysical interference, it was necessary to make appropriate changes and additions to the Health Insurance Act. With this in mind, several major changes have been proposed and I will explain them in that order as they appear in these changes. 1. The labour law has prescribed that the remuneration of earnings during the temporary prevention of insurance workers for the first 30 days shall be provided by the employer from his own resources. It was necessary to establish the obligations of the Republic Health Insurance Office to pay these charges after 31 days of prevention for the work of the insurance company, taking into account the fact that, according to the current provisions of the Health Insurance Act, the Republic Health Insurance Office paid compensation for the temporary prevention of work, from 61 days, i.e. that this obligation had an employer from that day on. This proposal aims at discharging the employer, paying the profit compensation after 30 days of prevention for work, which will, of course, make business more economical. In addition, the proposed measure could lead to a more rational use of the right to absent from work for the purpose of sickness, i.e. to a reduction of the abuse of that right, and otherwise, in the earlier period, it was a very common phenomenon. 2. It is proposed that the basis for profit compensation be determined in accordance with the Labour Act, general act or contract of work that the insurance undertaking would have achieved in the month for which the profit compensation is paid, that no temporary prevention for work, disease, injury or anything else occurred. The proposed way was left with the net principle of accounting for profit compensation, which has so far been represented in the Health Insurance Act and has accepted the gross principle of the calculation of the basis for profit compensation, thus bringing this right in line with the gross principle of profit accounting. It is also proposed that the remuneration cannot be charged by other fees which, in accordance with the labour regulations, do not have the character of the profit, which retains the principle that the insurance company has the right to make a profit which, under the law, would result in no temporary impediment to work, and that it is not compensated for other types of earnings that under the Labour Act do not have the character of the earnings. 3. It is proposed that the amount of the salary fee be paid at 65% of the basis for the salary fee, i.e. the earnings made by the insurance undertaking in the month for which the salary is paid if there was no temporary impediment to work, with the fact that such a charge cannot be lower than the minimum earnings determined in accordance with the law. In order to protect the category - sick and injured, and above all in the case of prevention of work injury and professional illness, voluntary giving of tissue or organs, as well as maintenance of pregnancy, it is proposed that the remuneration of earnings be paid in that case in the amount of 100% of the basics for compensation, i.e. that it cannot be lower than the minimum earnings established in accordance with the law. 4. It is also proposed to make profits for persons who carry out their own activities, i.e. the founders of operations or enterprises in which they carry out certain tasks, to be 65% of the gross average basis on which the insured person paid a contribution for compulsory health insurance during the previous calendar period. This category of insurance companies has identified cases where the profit fee is 100% of the basis of which the earnings are determined and in cases of labour involvement, occupational illness, voluntary tissue and organ giving, as well as in case of maintenance of pregnancy. 5. In order to protect employees whose employer does not temporarily pay their salaries, who are on sick leave, the right to benefit from those persons who did not receive earnings in the previous period under the Labour Act has been reserved. Six. In view of the character of the above-mentioned norms, i.e. the method of establishing the basis of which the remuneration of employees of insurance undertakings is calculated, it is proposed to delete those provisions which regulate the current way of synchronising earnings, in cases where temporary prevention takes several months. Seven. As the Labour Act prescribed that earnings during the absence of one of the parents of a child who needed special care due to a severe degree of psychophysical disturbance be paid in accordance with the rules on child welfare, it was necessary to delete this right from the mandatory health insurance system. So it's practically moved to another area. 8. Of course, certain amendments or additions that have, above all, legal and technical character have been proposed, with a view to bringing certain members of the Health Insurance Act in line with the above. A few words about amendments to the Health Protection Act. The reason for the adoption of the law amending and supplementing the Health Protection Act is that it is necessary to comply with the Labour Act, which entered into force on 21 December 2001. The proposed changes do not have the character of reform solutions, since work is under way on a comprehensive reform of the health care system. The three basic segments that are in conformity with the Labour Act are as follows: 1. It is proposed to regulate healthcare professionals' duty in healthcare institutions as a type of overtime, given that the Labour Act is not regulated in general, but is left with the possibility that the specific health care law should be regulated in a comprehensive manner. The law suggests that a health care institution may introduce a duty as overtime if, by introducing work on shifts through redistribution or new employment, it is not possible to provide continuous extra-patient and hospital health care. The duty can be introduced for night work, working on days of national holidays and Sundays, and that decision is made by the director of health institutions, so that overtime work on the basis of duty cannot last more than 10 hours a week per employee. On the basis of such overtime, healthcare professionals are entitled to increased earnings in accordance with the law and other sublaws. In this way, I would like to point out, this area of duty has been by these principles and has so far been practically applicable to the organisation of health services. 2. It is proposed to introduce volunteer work in health institutions and other private forms of performing health work, i.e. in other legal persons performing health care activities for performing certain health services and for which no working relationship is based. Voluntary work is established by concluding a volunteer work contract with an unemployed healthcare worker and a health associate, and in order to carry out a traineeship, which is a condition for self-execution of healthcare. It is also envisaged to conclude a voluntary contract with a healthcare professional and a health associate in order to professionally improve the abovementioned person, i.e. to develop a specialisation under a defined training programme, i.e. specialisation. 3. The proposed amendments and additions provide for the possibility of conclusion of a supplemental work contract, such as work outside the working relationship concluded between a healthcare institution, another form of healthcare activity, or another legal person performing health work and a healthcare professional. In this way, additional recruitment of healthcare professionals and health associates, whose expertise or expertise is needed by another employer, is also possible, both in order to exchange experience and in providing quality health care, i.e. to achieve higher incomes from healthcare professionals and health associates. The proposed amendments to the law provide for a voluntary contract, as well as a supplementary contract, to be concluded in writing, containing a precisely defined type, method, duration of work, fixed cash compensation, etc. In this way, the establishment of a full record of the work and engagement of healthcare professionals and health associates on the one hand and on the other hand is seen human resources in all forms of health care, which can be important in determining human health policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-09-0.u19879	I thank Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Do the officials of the committees want a word? The Health and Family Committee, Mrs. Liver Dacin? No, I don't. The Legislative Committee? No, I don't. ) Do the People's MPs Predrag Mijailović Luna and Mihajlo Jagodic, who have issued an opinion at committee meetings? Yeah. ) I ask the representatives of the parliamentary groups to send me a list of registered speakers, if they have not already done so.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-09-0.u19880	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a representative of the government has given us a very good explanation here, and that's all right, and that's how it's supposed to be. It is true that health care and health insurance laws should comply with the Labour Act, but something else is not right and not good. I'll start by talking about amendments and additions to the Health Protection Act, whose article 9 must comply with Article 38. The labour law. The legislator provided for the Labour Act that there are specificities that cannot be included in classical work, i.e. cannot be regulated by the Labour Act and therefore it is necessary to regulate this by a special health care law. What did the promoter do here? The promoter simply did the following: he prescribed a member of the 44th former Labour Law, and we know that he was absolutely not applicable and was simply not in practice applied, because it was impossible and when he was tried, there was chaos in the organisation of health institutions. It's all the reasons I've singled out my opinion. First of all, by supplementing Article 9, overtime and healthcare in healthcare institutions are treated as the same category of work, which is not the same in practice and cannot be evened. Let me give you a closer look at the meaning of overtime in health institutions. Overtime work in health institutions can be treated as that work when, for example, surgery surgeon remains an hour, two or three to complete surgery, because it is illogical for the surgical team to leave the operation and that someone else must continue. Overtime work in health institutions is if someone starts a medical procedure, because it can never be predicted, it has to stay to finish an hour or two and normally, as a rule, it should be paid. Then, overtime can be done in a health care facility if it is necessary to call an expert on an emergency procedure to do one part of the job or to call a consilium, not to elaborate on it further. On-call is a special type and special category of work in health institutions. I have the right to say that, because I've been in a health care facility for 30 years. The duty begins, as usual, at 1400 hours and ends at seven o'clock in the morning, which is 17 hours in total. The task force shall be composed of one on-call doctor and a group of nurses, who go on shifts and the team shall serve the same number of patients in a stationary facility, then solve all emergency cases and, if necessary, convene a consilium. Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it must be clear to you that duty and overtime are not two of the same categories. This mentions the possibility of a shift. The shift work at stationary-type health institutions is literally impossible to organize. If it were possible to organize it, it would be organized everywhere in the world. He was trying to organize his shift work, but he couldn't get back to life, and he did the most damage to a sick man. If the shift work is to be organized in a hospital facility, if the man is operated or the endoscopic procedure is started, after the seventh or eighth day the doctor comes to see his patient and if complications occur... Time, I won't report back in the principle debate later, Mr. Zoran. It's a matter of health care and a sick man, and if I have to break up right now, there's no problem. I'm just trying to tell people who aren't informed about this. If complications arise, who can solve it? The only way to get rid of the one who started treating the patient is in an adequate way.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-09-0.u19881	Mr. Mijailovic, please sign up for a principle search, as a member of the committee that has issued an opinion you have five minutes. The word has been issued by MP Mihajlo Jagodic, who also issued an opinion at the board's session.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-09-0.u19882	Dear Presidency, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliaments, I have issued an opinion on the Health Committee on Health in Health Protection means in the part of the Bill on Amendments to the Health Protection Act. I would have accepted this proposal as a whole on health insurance, but I would have had objections to the bill amending the Health Protection Act. That's where I'd say similar things, like my predecessor said, Dr. Lune. I believe, however, that this proposal was made in haste and by emergency procedure it came into our procedure, and in fact it was prescribed almost entirely to the 1996 Labour Relations Act. The only two news that is there are some things about the record of the employment contract, whether volunteering, or the part relating to the length of working time that a healthcare professional can perform with another employer. In the 1996 Labour Relations Act, it was one-third of the working time, and in this bill it was half the working time. The second, from point to point, is prescribed by the 1996 Labour Relations Act. So Article 44, and then Article 129, and Article 131, and then Article 130, point 1, and then Article 132. However, I appreciate that Mr. Deputy Prime Minister said that this is not reform law, in fact, but something out of necessity has been done, but some things are done in this sense not to change, but to sort out the situation as it is. So, to officialize the current situation. Some things have been known to exist, and they are not official by law, so this is now official. Especially in the domain of complementar work, as healthcare professionals, especially top experts and better quality doctors, were in a position to work, whether in different institutions of the state sector, were in the private sector, which was against the law that applied, so that it was official. In addition, it has been necessary so far that, a health care professional, if he tries to create a work contract, must obtain consent from his superior from the work organisation in which he works, and here, in fact, he allows himself to only inform his superior without seeking written consent. As for supplemental work, I also have objections, so in a further principled discussion, I'm going to look back at all that, and this is just an announcement.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-09-0.u19883	I thank the People's MP. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? There is a word from MP Zivodarka Dacin, the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-09-0.u19884	Dear President, Mr. Vice-President of the Government, honourable fellow Members of the People, we have today united the debate on amendments and the addition of two legislative projects, namely the Health Protection Act and the Health Insurance Act. It is certain that we Socialists are absolutely clear that practically these two legal acts are in line with the Labour Act, which your congregation majority brought in December of last year. We Socialists were against passing such a law, because it simply proved in this last three months that we were right, that this law was least done to contribute to the worker, but on the contrary, that the employer could gain some privileges, which would result in workers. Because of all this, since we were also against it then, the SPS parliamentary group will vote today in principle against these two harmonisations of legislative projects. I would like to say that we would be much happier if the Proposer had made a proposal to amend and supplement the Labour Act, because then this congregation, along with the congregation majority, would have been at least able to correct a part of the injustice that had been done to the workers by the Labour Act. If a scale were to be placed on which the performance and quality of law enforcement should be put, I think that out of all the legal projects that this assembly has adopted, the Labour Law would probably take the last place. Well, I'll take my turn. Let me say a few words here about the health care bill. Simply, you have already heard from colleagues who have singled out their opinion on the Health and Family Committee that there is a very serious controversy of all qualified people from the profession on equalising the concept of duty and overtime, especially what the legislator requires permanentity in providing health care, both in primary health care, so in health care, so also in the stationary, or in the hospital. However, these first members are already limited to these overtime hours and are limited by the legislator to 10 hours a week, or 40 hours a month. I would say that one of the most serious reasons for this solution is to spare the cost of the Republic Health Insurance Office, because it is certainly his obligation to pay off the same. I'm absolutely clear that there's enough resources missing here. As long as the health care fund is being financed all this time, I don't see any way of getting better, or for our patients, which is why we exist, and I also don't see anything more favourable going to happen to all those who are employed in health care. I would say that, of course, the functioning of the Republic Health Protection Institute depends primarily on the continuity of the payment of that rate, which is set out in every compensation for work, but also on the height of the rate paid. It can't work, because our economy is getting tired, because every day we get more and more workers without a job, who don't receive any compensation for work, and what's left to do, they have receipts below the standard of living. Surely these funds can't be enough and this time the government is again, normably, protecting the Republic Health Services. I would also say that as far as providing the permanentity of the service, both in the outpatient and hospital sectors, both in primary and secondary health care, it is certain that there is a problem of the people, regardless of what I suppose to be here in large centres, such as Belgrade, Novi Sad, Kragujevac, Nis, university centres, there is probably a surplus in healthcare workers. In our smaller environments, here's an example of the health center of Kickinda I come from, and how the doctors of general practice and dentists are missing. There's no way to fill those free jobs, because you have to admit that it's very hard for someone from the big city, even if they didn't have a job in the profession, to come to some nice town on a salary of 10,000 dinars and without the possibility of getting an apartment. What I would certainly welcome in this bill, it is a practical ban on supplemental work, because finally, we have come to the fact that healthcare professionals can earn something over their salary, from jobs that they know best and have been educated for at least 20 years, and not as so far as we have had different cases. I'll be responsible for telling you, because I know people, my fellow specialists, who drove trucks to private autocars, who used to mix bread at the baker's office, work at the auto mechanic's, to get as much as possible for their family. However, I also have a small dose of the reserve here, given that when this bill is first examined at first glance, everyone imagines that now it is possible for one who works at a state institution to work at a private institution (and can) work overtime for four hours and only to inform his director, and the director of the competent ministry. It is again something that is a more favourable opportunity for large centres, where there must be a lot of private practice, but again, health workers in smaller environments are placed in a different position, and especially given that the legislator here does not limit that it can only be a contract between workers from a state-run institution with a private institution, but also with a state-run, where there is a separate home of health, where there is a special employer and where there is a hospital employer. But there's one objective stumbling block in all of this, that there's still a network of health institutions like health centres, it's the health center and the kickinda that I come from, where we have one employer, one register and one jury account. So, he has no possibility, due to the restriction of these 10 hours of overtime, to allow the appointment of a specialist doctor from the hospital to work in some hospital general practice, whether it's a city or a village; and in such a way as to justify our existence at all, which is that we must have patients in the first place; so far we've been acting that way. That's the problem. In addition to restricting and disabling patients to receive a cure, as it is becoming less and less, they will eventually be restricted by the fact that they will no longer be able to receive a health care service precisely because of this problem. As far as criminal provisions are concerned, as a man, I am absolutely against criminal provisions, because I believe that anyone who has been defined to work in healthcare carries, firstly, one basic dose of humanity, love for people and a desire to help them. But in principle, I absolutely agree that for anyone who consistently does not respect the rules of conduct and work in health, there should be these criminal provisions. I would just turn the situation around and say that, on the one hand, this country, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and our resolution ministry, should commit themselves and, in addition to logistics support, we should finally and financially support the basic conditions of functioning of healthcare, and then, normally, follow all these criminal provisions. As regards the Proposal for a Law on Harmonisation and Health Insurance, it is clearly stated that this is practically only about applying the Labour Act for all those with whom incompetence for work has occurred, i.e. sick. We talked a lot about this, as an SPS parliamentary group, when it was on the agenda of the Labour Act, I would say that mathematics is absolutely the same because now it's about 65% gross compensation for sickness, and before it was the law 75% net compensation, where now one twelveth of the corresponding regression and, of course, a warm meal for every month, but no mathematics can convince me that it's the same thing, 65% gross and 85% net, which was in the previous law. Why? It was certain that if it was more than 31 days of compensation, it was 85%, and if it was longer than 60 days of compensation it was 95%. On the other hand, there is another restriction in application, which is that earlier sick leave has been paid to the work organisation's burden over a period of up to two months, and now it decreases and goes on for a month. It is clear that there is a clause left here that if the employer has financial resources, he has a good will, he can pay off his sick leave, but that it is then a working organization that will wait for the refund of the same funds by the Republic Health Insurance Office.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-09-0.u19885	I'm warning you of overtime or do you want to move on to the next ten minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-09-0.u19886	No, I wouldn't, I'd like to thank you for now, so I'll get back to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-09-0.u19887	Anybody else answer for a word? Please, the word is by MP Goran Cvetanovic, the authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-09-0.u19888	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the prime minister, when the government was formed, promised that within six months, the ministry for environmental protection would be formed. Not only has this promise not been fulfilled, but we don't have a health minister for a longer period of time. So it is no wonder that the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Zarko Korać, who is otherwise just a health associate, has just read what is on the agenda - changes to the health care and insurance laws. That's why I have to start with some definitions of health care, and later to explain some members of the law. Health care is an organized overall activity of society on the preservation and improvement of health, then prevention, prevention and early detection of diseases, timely and effective treatment and rehabilitation of sick and injured people. Health care is a set of measures that cover the first healthy population and its environment, and then diseases and disorders in all development phases, both individual and population groups. Health care is an overall measure and activity of both communities in general and its integrated part of health work and man himself on improving, preserving and improving health. The extent of health care varies from country to country depending on socio-economic relations in general, the material opportunities of society, the degree of development and organisation of health care and health care. Our health care is a very expensive activity that is far from providing quality health care to the population. The organisation of health care is rigid and largely set up, and is financed by mandatory contributions to health insurance, which fall within the form of public income. Of the insurance companies, 60% of the children, over 65 years of age, pregnant women, chronic patients, disabled people, voluntary blood donors, were infected with infectious and malignant diseases. For them is free health care, protection for the high degree of social protection, as well as mutual solidarity for healthcare users. Basic health and prevention, as they are, are unable to fulfill their functions. The Serbian Radical Party advocates the absolute freedom of choice of doctors and health care institutions. For example, by preventing a pregnant woman from caring for her birth, the chosen obstetrician, who led the pregnancy, violates her right to choose a doctor and the responsibility for a possible bad outcome relativates and cloudes, which translates into that one who leads the pregnancy should and is responsible for her outcome. This is precisely why perital mortality, for example, is more than triple, with 19 prominences, and everywhere in the world is about 5 prominences, and the reasons for the good work should be sought in pregnancy with the wrong assessment of the date of delivery. There is also a problem with unequal staffing. For example, six specialists come to a general practice in Belgrade. The health system is very bulky. It is therefore necessary to develop an information system urgently. The information system is also important because of health supplies, and medicines factories should sell drugs at a cost lower than commercially, so that citizens of Serbia come as easily and cheaper to deficit medicines, such as monizol, presolol, dilcoran, dovicin, verapamil, berodual, nitroglycerin, etc. The aim of each healthcare professional is to act preventively to avoid disease, to organise activities to improve and protect the health of the people. Citizens know that medical equipment is inadequate and that it is necessary to replace time-consuming diagnostic devices, that there are not enough medications and that healthcare works thanks to the high moral, ethical integrity of most doctors and healthcare professionals. The Serbian Radical Party is seeking to begin the operation of the medical chamber, which is in operation everywhere where medicine is at a high level of development. The medical chamber would be independent of the government, autonomous and there would be applied ethical principles in practice that would be implemented by an ethical committee. A Serbian medical society in its February 29th, 2000 statute in its second member, says: The company is joining the Association of Doctors' Associations of Yugoslavia. DOS authorities in the new, proposed statute, in Article 108, said: The Serbian medical society is co-operating with the doctor's company of Montenegro and the medical societies and organisations of doctors in the country and abroad. Apparently, the Serbian Medical Society, as an organisation of all doctors, suffers the negative consequences of DOS authorities in our country. Health care, as well as health care workers' salaries, are a multi-annual problem. Health care professionals, even though they belong to an elite profession, are inadequately rewarded for their human work. They work in difficult conditions, they don't have holidays or vacations, like other workers, without talking about the weight of surgical work, which can't be measured by the weight of any other job. The state needs first of all to worry about the health of the nation. We must give an example of a healthy nation to our younger, adequate salary of health workers, and this will primarily work to reduce health corruption. If the justice minister promises judges and public prosecutors a 1,000-mark salary, I see no reason why 130,000 healthcare workers in Serbia do not have adequate salaries, so that there is as little need for additional activities or overtime as possible. First of all, it has always been a philosophy that a health worker or a doctor has a lower salary, to buy social peace and to keep citizens, who have reached the lower threshold of social endurance, constantly indicate that if doctors have a low salary, they can also endure with small wages. There's always social peace being bought over the back of a doctor. That's why these changes are proposed as well, for example, on-call. You saw that the promoter only read all the members of the proposed law where it is said that duty can only be introduced at night, on days of national holiday and on Sundays. If the working week lasts for five days, I don't see why Saturday was expelled, it doesn't exist at all as a day of the week, as if Saturday doctors don't work, stay on duty, and don't operate. So for overtime, it's defined that it can't last longer than 10 hours. I'm going to remind the promoter, and he's probably not even addressed, that the average birth lasts for 12 hours. If you only have 10 hours of duty, does this mean that gynecologists, midwives who do so need to stop working, and they need to continue someone else or should really increase the time period for the absolute surgeons or the midwives who are doing the job, adequately and ultimately do what they are paid for and due to Hippocrates' oath. Even in supplemental work, where it is defined to be able to work with one employer up to one half full-time, it may be possible that the first view and it is not seen that doctors in fact have health insurance rights only in case of work injury and professional illness, in fact the employer is protected, which means that the state, i.e. hospitals and health institutions will pay health care workers, that doctors will work additionally, and the employer will protect themselves maximumly. Obviously, it's not the most impoverished solution, and it's only here and that something needs to change. Since there's little time left until the end of this first presentation, I'll just have a few more sentences on health insurance. The amendment and addition of the Health Insurance Act was discussed on 16 March 2001. It is well defined in the explanation that during 2001 we expect to implement a health insurance reform in the Republic of Serbia. In 2001, no, absolutely no reform was made, and even in this bill that is now before us, which is the vice-president of the Republic government and said, the proposed changes and additions do not have the character of reform solutions. Apparently, the reform government, which constantly potentiates its reforms, in the health care of reform, is not... Please, well, obviously I don't have what you need, but I'll give you therapy after my speech, so there's no problem. Even in all the proposed members, in Article 12, in Article 14, in Article 15, in Article 18, Article 19, it is defined that only a legal-technical order is in question, so it is evident that there is nothing from your reforms, and since it is exactly 10 minutes past I call on Mr Cedu Jovanovic to come out of the Assembly to offer him adequate therapy.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-09-0.u19889	The word has been made by MP Torda Dr. Laszlo, deputy president of the DOS parliamentary group, the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-09-0.u19890	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Vice-President of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, health care is a very sensitive area of society where even the slightest change due to the sensitivity of the functioning of this segment is caused by normal discussions, and especially when it comes to some problem affecting the functioning of the healthcare system itself. The DOS parliamentary group - the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians without objections can support amendments and additions to the Health Insurance Act. However, from the debate so far, we could see the essence of some remarks, and that was heard on the Health Committee, so where there is, however, what would be said is a meeting of experts to discuss the solutions offered, but above all, I would like to praise the fact that these things will be regulated by law. Some sublaws will not be able to ban the additional work of doctors for some time, as was the case in previous years, and then allow the next sublegal act again, as well as certain government regulations to stop the duty, limit it to a certain number, and then release it later. It certainly needs to be welcomed that these sensitive things are now regulated by law. However, I am not entirely sure and convinced that the solutions offered are the best. It is certain that the provisions of the Health Protection Act, which relate to those categories, must be aligned with the Labour Act. However, I am also obliged as an expert in this area to point out some problems that will inevitably arise if we accept the proposed solution. First of all, it's about limiting duty to 10 o'clock a week, i.e. 40 hours a month. It is certain that in large health centers it will not be a problem, there will be a job organised, but in hospitals of larger centres even as I come from Zrenjanin, so I could set an example of a grain hospital, I am not sure that permanence in all departments can be organised in this way. I think it should be a little bit later on, though. Also, the observations referred to in the supplementary work, i.e. to fixing, or limiting supplemental work in only one employer, there will also be some problems, and in that sense, the smaller health homes that are gravitating towards larger centres, which do not have hospital capacities, however, are legally obliged to have certain specialist profiles, whether as permanent employees, whether part-time or additionally engaged. If we restrict experts to working with only one employer in the form of supplementary work, I am not sure that these institutions will be able to provide the legal number and profile of specialists, so I consider and appeal to Mr. Vice-President of the Government that tomorrow's session of the Committee, which will be held on the basis of the amendments made to this law, will be used as an opportunity to discuss these problems once again and bring to the end some compromise solution, which will satisfy the demands of the Ministry of Labour, but also the demands of the professional public. I think that after that, our parliamentary group, as well as probably the other parliamentary groups of the ruling majority, will be able to support the law on amendments and additions to the Health Protection Act. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-09-0.u19891	Thank you. Are any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, answering for a word? No, I don't. ) We continue the debate according to the application for a word in the joint principle debate. The word is made by MP Dragoljub Vojnovic, and then by MP Predrag Cananovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-09-0.u19892	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, I rarely report to speak and I feel I should speak of what I consider competent. After 40 years of medical work, however, it seems that I am mistaken in one fact. I thought health care was a matter of special social interest. However, I think so now, but looking at the government's relationship to health, it's like I'm delusional. In fact, although we are discussing the Law amending the Health and Health Insurance Act, where the proposed amendments only apply to a few members, we do not have a health minister to whom we should address, to give an opinion on the proposed changes. And even, with all due respect to Mr. Vice President, it seems to me that he's just a vice president here. We usually say in health care that there's a duty in the hospital, but he knows when to call a surgeon. I don't know who Mr. Vice President's calling. The proposed law amending the Health Protection Act speaks, it would say, of cosmetic changes to the conditional adopted Labour Act. In health care, gentlemen, there are about 130,000 people working in catastrophic conditions. I'm not saying hard, I'm saying in catastrophic conditions. I may be subjective, but I can't imagine a more important job than saving our children's lives, our people, and now, in relative peace. I say relative peace because it continues to be shot in the streets, we have accidents, etc., and only during the war, while bombs were being smoked, health workers flew in and pulled people out, treated them, operated on unheated objects. We talk about reforms all the time. Gentlemen, should health care not be reformed as an important social area? What we are offered for adoption, to repeat once again, are only the parts of the Labour Act that needed to be resolved by special sublaws, in order for this specificity of health care work to come out and in some way legally possible, I am talking about the Health Protection Act, so that people can get their salaries. Well, even on this proposal, DSS MPs have tabled amendments the government has rejected. It's about defining duty and overtime. There were speeches about it and on the Health Committee, we got an answer from you, Mr. Vice President, a little angry, I don't know why, I'm sorry if I pissed you off. We'll see who has the majority and how we vote it. However, arguments were broken that there were abuses in duty, abuse and manipulation in health, corruption. I'd like to publicly show here that everyone is serving health care, to answer why the health reform laws don't try to correct, to disable or change. No law in the field of health has entered the procedure and will not enter by the end of this year, as if we do not have time, and we have no minister for 7 - 8 months. I have to say that the only thing time and will have been for is for the directors of health care institutions to be replaced. Mr. Vice President, we in medicine have the term "Lui Bene Interrogate, Bene Diagnostic" - who asks well, well diagnosed. If you didn't know how to resolve the issue of reform laws, you could have asked the institutions of health care, the union of doctors and pharmacists, and all the other unions, so you could come out here, it was already time, with a proposal for reform laws. I was lucky or unhappy to attend last Friday's Commission of the Government of Serbia, made up of directors of Serbia's clinical centres, none of which were from my party, but people cried out and tried to solve the catatrophic health situation. We also received cries from the Serbian health care institution chamber, which are asking for such an important area of health to finally be given to the minister. It's like it's been ignored and that's what I care about. What I'm trying to say, and I can't tell you what much to say in principle about a few members of the law that are changing, you've had a lot of time. We demand urgent proposals for reform laws, because health workers and patients are waiting for it, and it has to be done quickly. In the explanation you gave for Article 9a, where we have tried to show you that duty and overtime are not the same, you are introducing a new decree, Mr. Vice President, which says that work outside of working hours is not work but employment. New coins are beginning to appear. Whether it stems from a reduction in liabilities to injuries, pension insurance or how, but I'm old enough to remember and a positive zero, and a working man's student, and I'm not ready to hear new specifics from the new government.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-09-0.u19893	The word has a People's MP Predrag Canovic, followed by Parliament MP Predrag Mijailovic - Lune.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-09-0.u19894	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is clear that amendments and additions to the health care and health insurance laws have been proposed to bring them first and foremost to comply with the Labour Act. So the essence of the amendments and the addition of these laws is not in any radical reform, but simply in harmonising with the said law. The proposed amendments to the Health Protection Act provide for the introduction of overtime, the institutions of volunteer and supplemental work are also foreseen, the obligation of health institutions to keep records of completed contracts on volunteer and supplemental work, and it is also foreseen that additional work can take up to half full-time. In principle, the SSJ parliamentary group has no objection to the introduction of additional work for healthcare professionals, because we believe that this will contribute to legalising the work of the black doctor, which apparently exists. However, we think that the length of overtime should be increased to 15 hours per week per employee, instead of up to 10, as envisioned by this legislative project. On the other hand, the proposed amendments and additions to the Health Insurance Act were submitted for the need to comply with the established gross principle of salary accounting and the need to comply with the provisions of the Labour Act, which relate to the remuneration of earnings during the temporary prevention and absence of work for the care of the child. Our concrete objection, when it comes to amending the Health Insurance Act, concerns the erasure of Article 33 of the applicable law, which provided that an insurance undertaking with whom the temporary prevention of work was caused by injury at work or because of a professional illness has the right to make a profit from the first day of and the prevention and the whole time of its duration. The opinion of the Soviet Parliament group is that if your position is not legally founded, some modus needs to be found to ensure that these people are compensated for their earnings. Clearly, the essence and purpose of the health care and health insurance law is that the patient is placed at the heart of the health system. That's what's good. Besides, health care and there's a patient. However, in order to achieve this goal, it is primarily necessary to address the extremely difficult situation of health institutions and the poor material status of healthcare professionals. Health care in Serbia seems to me, in the most difficult situation, in a catastrophic situation, and I believe that most health workers share this opinion. First, it is known that the resources for covering the material costs, which the Republic Health Insurance Institute delivers to health institutions, cover up to one fifth of the necessary material resources necessary to ensure minimum work. Secondly, the health service pricer formed by the Republic Health Insurance Institute is economically completely irrational because the real health service prices are 10 to 100 times higher. Furthermore, it is known that last year, all health institutions became bonds of payment of goods from the so-called "the Republic Health Insurance Institute". the credit arrangement, where the use for this goods belongs to the Republic Health Insurance Office. In doing so, the Health Insurance Office did not commit to paying the credit arrangement goods within a specified time limit. And not to mention the ridiculous health pay regulation, where the pay ratio between a physical worker and a science doctor is 1:2.2, which in translation would mean that one doctor is worth more than two cleaning girls. All these problems have recently been pointed out by the Management Board of Chambers of Health in its open letter. However, patient care must be first priority, and this is why it is necessary to approach all of these problems related to the functioning of health institutions and the poor material status of healthcare professionals as soon as possible. So it's the state that has to accept responsibility for the catastrophic health situation, not that it transfers that responsibility to health institutions and healthcare professionals. This year, health care has not even entered the government of the Republic of Serbia's budgetary priority. We're more than half a year without the Secretary of Resort. Since the parliamentary group of the Soviet Union voted against the Labour Act, and this is about harmonising these two legal projects with that law, in principle our parliamentary group will vote against these two legislative projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-09-0.u19895	Thank you. The word is by MP Predrag Mijailovic-Lune, followed by MP Goran Cvetanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-09-0.u19896	Gentlemen Members of the People, the Honorable Presidency, amendments and additions to the Health Protection Act, instead of bringing newspapers and the possibility of better organisation in health care, it will unfortunately worsen the state and possibilities of organising health care in the Republic of Serbia. This chaos must be affecting the most sickest man, and I'll explain it to you in a way. First of all, in order to be well diagnosed, the patient must be monitored by one diagnostic team, one doctor and the other group, which goes beyond that; it is necessary to carry out the right diagnostics. If the doctor gets into shifts, he'll see his patient after the fourth or fifth day. Each doctor has its own concept of treatment or diagnostics. Please, it's impossible to pass on, as it is in the factory, that someone sits behind the current and continues to work, but the concept of the diagnostics itself is specific to every disease, as well as to every doctor and every team in the healthcare institutions that do so. So we see in everything that the most sick man loses is the most. If we look from the point of view of finance, where we very often swear that we have at least reform in finance, that we have strong economists, that we have those who know every penny where it is given, if we take that instead of being on duty to organise shift work, I ask the representative who is here in charge of health, because there is no health minister, in which way he thinks he organizes shift work when we have three, four or five doctors and when the patient comes back to that same doctor. Everyone here, and in the world, knows one thing, that duty is four to five times cheaper, I stress cheaper. We don't have any shifts in the West. A trainee's work has been introduced in the West, and I don't want to comment, because I hear they say there is in the West. He's in the West from 9:00 to 6:00 p.m. That time from 6 a.m. to 9 p.m. that's duty, sir. We can talk about it again. That's what doctors and students at medical school know about what duty means. Then, gentlemen of Parliament, for the sake of efficiency, reform and rationalization in health, if we look at every dinar we give, then in that situation we must organise good health. What if in the course of 24 hours he's supposed to do shift work, he's been tracking teams that go with diagnostics. We need to run a whole mechanism of labs, x-rays, scanners without talking about everything else that needs to be done. One more thing they need to know, those who are familiar with it, and that's why I'd like to have a health minister here who knows about it, so let me ask him: colleague, when you take the lab results. In the morning. It's taken everywhere in the morning because every man's biorhythm, the level of hormone in the human organism is different and the standardization of hormones and other results are everywhere standardised in the world for midday classes. If we don't know that, then we shouldn't be dealing with it, not even representing a sphere we're not familiar with. I would never try to represent what I don't know. I'll stand behind every word I say. Once again, I ask the Government, please the Ministry, to order a regulation or a law that we doctors and all work in shifts, to justify ourselves, and at the same time we will be grateful, because we are only ready for patients, not money. Gentlemen, we sell our health during the 24-hour work; and behind it to come back to work. All of these are reasons why these amendments and additions to the law, unfortunately, I don't think the government would have done that if she knew what was behind it. They took a simple and just copied article 44, and counting on it at the time of the Socialists, it's good. But the Socialists didn't apply it, because they realized it was impossible and they put it away by regulation. Then, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must say, we health care professionals, and first of all, we must offer patients instead of recommendations, instead of orders on patient protection, to offer a physician satisfied, a nurse satisfied, a nurse who is satisfied with the salary, well-paid. Then, gentlemen, he'll be fine with the patient and he'll be fine with the doctor. Gentlemen Members of the People, let me ask why reform laws are not passed, and above all the laws on medical chambers. They are not brought in for practical reasons, because the medical chamber would be a partner in the negotiations, a real partner, and then no one could think to suggest something like this in this House. Otherwise, this is how it's always going to happen. These remarks of mine are well-intentioned, and I had to take them out for patients, for doctors, and also for the government, so that she wouldn't make a mistake. I don't belong to people who say, "Don't hold a political opponent back in mistakes." I'm trying to tell them there's no mistakes. If this is adopted, all the burden will be on the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-09-0.u19897	The word is made by the MP Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-09-0.u19898	Ladies and gentlemen, we have received a proposal to amend and supplement the Health Protection Act. I think that this proposal, of all six members of the law, shows in fact the government's attitude towards health care. I think so many false promises, disorganization and underestimating relations, which the government has towards health, actually shows all the depth of the crisis in which the health crisis lies, and I think that this goes beyond that threshold of endurance and tolerance, both professional and intellectual, that only fear that the government spreads to Serbia can prevent a general social rebellion. Still in this situation, fear is stronger than hunger, but hunger threatens to overcome that fear, and then Serbia will spread imminent social unrest. The situation in health care is chaotic and tragic, so the government's relationship shows that we haven't had a health minister in eight months. If there is no Minister of Health, then there are at all these other ministers, and I am not talking about the fact that this government has not come out with a clear strategic plan and direction or a transparent explanation of the health situation. People who work in health know about the lack of medication, know how tragic it is to watch a patient with a plastic bag enter the operating block, because he had to buy povidone ionide, he had to buy gloves, syringes, canals, needles, anything, so he could be operated and knowingly breaking the law, because the law doesn't allow it. In health care, the government has made an overall difficult situation even worse. It has worsened that it has introduced enormously high drug prices and there has been an increase in prices from 200 to 300%, not consulting anyone, especially as some medicines are far more expensive than drugs in Western Europe. Moreover, this government has introduced a drug tax for the first time, which has never been so far and thus, by introducing the tax itself, the price of drugs has gone by 20%. What the government has done to improve this health situation is that out of the 300 drugs that were on the positive list, 200 have taken off and only 100 medicines remain. Therefore, the situation is far more complicated and difficult, so that six members will now be blinded by healthcare professionals and admit that this is not about reform law, but only about harmonising this law with the Labour Act. However, there was plenty of time to try to define directions and how reforms in health will be carried out, to sort of reduce this chaos that exists in the privatisation process in health, while on the other hand there is complete poverty for state institutions. First it had to start with the establishment of medical chambers. Without one such organisation, which needs first of all to be professional, depoliticized, which, on the one hand, should protect the interests of health workers, but also patients, to ensure all directions and professional visions of the development of our health, to point the authorities to the state and to fight what exists today, which is a practical exclusion of health from funding, because patients all buy and finance everything. So it's something that's inevitable, and this government obviously doesn't think about it. The next is the introduction of an information system to connect, supply, know-how to show a new developmental direction and methods of improvement in health. Then, what was supposed to be a system, it was a system for health care. Privateization ensures that people who have money buy scary expensive appliances, build operating rooms, and all this society already has and all this society has already done. A good organisation that this is an existing health care facility to hire those people who have decided to start private health care and thus provide additional resources for state and social hospitals, could use the existing capacity and earn certain resources to improve the overall level of health care. No one takes care of it, and it's just all over the place so that in private health, everything can be provided, just don't think about that private health care in this country being able to use only 5% of the population, so much it can pay for those services, and 95% is certainly based on state health care, and no one wonders what level of health care these people will have. That's what's tragic about all this, and in this law it doesn't touch, it just cares about whether there's going to be a duty or a shift. Whoever wrote this obviously doesn't know the system of functioning health care in our country. On-call and overtime are two completely different categories. They're trying to get even here. On-call is a work that primarily provides permanentity in health care, and overtime is something of a necessary evil, which at some point by healthcare professionals must be provided in order to provide health care. So, which is absolutely incompatible. Nowhere in the world does surgery work on shifts. Anyone who knows what surgery is and how surgery should be done, that it takes two or three surgeons to do one surgery, should know that in hospitals where we have five, six surgeons the shift work is absolutely impossible to organize. Therefore, there will be a conscious violation of this law, as no hospital in the interior will be able to provide shift work of 10 hours of overtime, which should be transferred to duty. Has anyone ever consulted people who know this and even thought about how it's going to happen on the ground? After all, if you consulted someone in the West to come and write those laws to you, then you should have asked how it was done in the West. Nowhere in the West has a shift in surgery, because it's absolutely impossible. Second of all, duty is the work that is cheapest in any case, and in this way you're going to put a lot more pressure on the health register, because you can't pay for this either. You gentlemen have a situation where nurses are increasingly going to work in the butys. You're saying you're hiring new people so you can organize a service like this, as this law requires. Who do you hire when you have a shortage of perpetrators and how do you ensure that no sister will come to work for 7,000 dinars? Have you ever wondered what kind of pay and pay-as-you-go pay-as-you-go is 1-2.2. That kind of pay wasn't at the Bolsheviks' time or Stalin's. It's an orderly that can't provide development or quality health care, but can only slow down and freeze everything we have today. Therefore, the problems are far more complex, but what is evident in this government is that there is no direction, that there is no strategy, that there is no seeing and predicting how and in which direction this health care will go. You had plenty of time, gentlemen, and you had to define it. At this point you should have gone out and said, first we're introducing a medical chamber, and the second we have a way to regulate the relationship between private and social health, how we're going to use our capacities, how we're going to save money, how we're going to provide money, how we're going to operate health, how we're going to fix the organization, and how we're going to provide a minimum of health care. You've had time to tell me if we're going to go to health insurance levels or if we're going to continue to falsely talk about how everyone's insured, how everyone's entitled to health insurance, and you're not providing anyone with anything. Everyone, to be treated, has to buy drugs, material, pay for hospital days, and some food to draw from home. So the situation is far more complicated and I'm afraid that this way, as you think about it, you're going to bury healthcare tragically and that what's going on is just the pressure of a number of doctors, who are trying to provide additional work, and nothing more.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-09-0.u19899	The word is made by the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Zarko Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-09-0.u19900	I speak at the very end of this united general debate, but still, a few sentences. I didn't write these legal changes, but was written by the Ministry of Health. I fully respect your wish and request that there be a health minister, and he's justified. So in that sense, I fully support you. The reason that the health minister was not, as he had previously resigned, is because it is necessary to have a political consensus on the health minister, i.e. it has been too long to see whether our coalition partner will enter the government and possibly he himself to point out the minister for the place he once had. So that's the main reason, and no, I have to tell you openly, some underestimation of this very important segment of society. So I fully consider your request to be a health minister. I hope it will be this month, but if there is no Minister of Health, there is a Deputy Minister of Health, there is an assistant health minister and there is a Ministry of Health, in which many of your colleagues work. I would ask you not to get an impression in the public that some unauthorized persons have written these suggestions. They wrote your colleagues. So, your objections, your criticism, your rejection, it's okay for political, professional and other reasons, but this was done at the Ministry of Health by your colleagues. As for the other objections that stood out here, I'd just say that the laws on chambers, on health care, on health insurance work, that there are a number of proposals. Some were in public and in part of a public debate. If someone wanted to use this debate to open these topics, I appreciate that, but I would just say, I would give information to both you and the public, that these laws work this year. These laws will be presented to the public, there will be an opportunity before it comes to you, as MPs, who give the final word, that the public will say something about it. It's about extremely public areas. Please, every health worker in this room knows perfectly well, and others who have ever used health services, which are practically all citizens, that quick solutions, sudden solutions and radicalism will not do anyone any good in this area, given the general condition. Thirdly, it would be good for those who criticise what the health care system looks like, and they had responsibility for how it was destroyed earlier, to show a dose of self-criticism, and not to forget that we didn't create this system, but we all inherited it here, but somebody, for God's sake, has a responsibility why it looks like this today, and others, if I may say so, have no direct or much less responsibility. So let's not talk about a broken health care system with such ease, and then none of those responsible here respond - and why does this system look like that? And finally, I'm here as an authorized promoter by the government and the chairman of the Public Service Committee. It is true that I am not a doctor, but beware of the logic that only doctors or possibly healthcare professionals can talk about health care. According to that logic, MPs in this assembly should not vote at all when this topic is, but only doctors. So, of course it doesn't have to be that way. Thus, in this congregation we are having a public debate, in which surely the leading word is held by people who work in health care, doctors, and other health workers, and I fully respect it. But let everyone else, and users, and even health care associates, also say something, because, as you know, health care is something that concerns absolutely all the citizens of this country, of course, the most health care professionals who work in it, but everyone else. Beware of this logic that health care can be discussed exclusively by healthcare professionals and no one else. That's all I'm saying, with all due respect, the voice of health care professionals is the most important thing. That's not at all controversial, but other people should say something about it. I'll say that about making these supplements (and I end up) are consulted two ministries - it's the Ministry of Finance, because as you know, we have a financial restriction on what can be paid in health care, and it's very difficult, of course, the Ministry of Labour, since this is a alignment with the Labour Act, which are colleagues, who have really spoken correctly before me, have already pointed out. In other words, the Labour Act, which has been in force since December of last year, obliges the Serbian government, or the Ministry of Health, to bring this area into line with the Labour Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-09-0.u19901	The People's Messenger, Mihajlo Jagodic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-09-0.u19902	Respected presidency, respected colleagues and colleagues, I would continue what I started in my first report. I'd like to say something about myself. First, I am competent to respond to the Deputy Prime Minister, because I worked 15 years in the state sector and 7-8 years in the private health sector and I can certainly talk about health care on both sides. Surely privatisation in health care and the private health sector is waiting for his status to be regulated and to come to the right place that belongs to him. So he has to be a competition to the state sector. And I'm certainly competent as a person to say on both sides. I'd like to say something first about the concept of duty. Many colleagues have talked about it here, and I think it's the main stumbling block in everything you've suggested. So we can't do small environments like Književec, Zaječar (I come from Zaječar), to cover the quality and professional people on duty, because here you said it would be 10 hours, and that's impossible. So my colleagues are on duty every fourth day, every fifth day, somewhere even on the third day they're on duty. The health centres in the province tried to settle it on their days off, so that part from two o'clock in the afternoon to ten o'clock in the evening was resolved by giving the days off, and the night shift was paid. But that was very difficult, because there are people who have accumulated 50, 70, 100 days off, and they can never take advantage of it. And secondly, colleagues who want to leave their duty, e.g. I can't, because they've got a big infirmary waiting for them. So they have to serve there 20, 30, and 40 patients, who are waiting for them after their hard duty. Surely these are major problems; duty must be resolved separately, outside of all of these caves that are written here. Is it going to be through some state-sector contract, or is it a special collective agreement or something else that will be regulated, set out as some special notion, which will be paid in particular and especially respected? Then they'd get a higher quality of work on duty, and people would be more motivated to work and be, like, whole at it. Because, you know, now it comes to this in small areas that whoever can avoid being on duty, you know. Either he says he's been working for four hours, so he's disabled in other categories, or he's kind of already breast-fed, so he says, wait, let's let him work younger. And this is how, with better respect for this notion of duty and therefore better paying, people would rather decide to come out and be on duty, because duty is very important, especially in emergency departments, where people come in, so it's a lottery -- where the citizens will come in. You know, they can come to a top specialist, and they can come to some specialist who's not that great, which can be kind of very... They're not all the same, they're different in quality. [[Sagar.]] That's why I think we should also be on duty to share doctors by speciality, so that those doctors who have more work to do on duty should be more respected. For example, surgeons, interns, cardiologists, neuropsychiatricists who receive acute cases, are in a way marked positively, that they are more significant and that they have higher personal income or salary. Anyway, there's a huge discrepancy, you know. People are now looking at duty as some kind of coercion, and it should be different, to be satisfied when they go on duty. As for volunteer work, there are various disagreements and various discrepancies, especially when it comes to traineeships. In fact, it's all right, but volunteer specialization has a lot of vague things, so there's a problem, especially in smaller environments, that people who aren't happy get the specialization they want and start to sign up for volunteer specialization and then come up for a job at that place, in that department, before people who respect that game rules. That's why I think this should be more clearly defined by the framework of volunteer specializations. A special story is supplemental work in health care. The new Labour Law does not properly know the supplemental work, although it gives it in Article 82, which could make a person work additionally, that is, so to speak. Surely there is an introduction of a term -- a labor contract, which was already introduced in 1996, where we can also introduce competition in the work of health care. Health competition can be good, especially competition between the private sector and the state sector. But here we are introducing competition created by a man who comes out of the state sector and goes into the private sector. In the Labour Act itself, we have some kind of ban through Article 93 where this possibility is limited, a kind of banning competition, which has to be better defined. Surely this restriction on the ability to work for an additional four hours is difficult to control, because people who work and go out, either in private or in another state institution, to work, it's hard to control it for exactly four hours. That's why the limit is very problematic. It must also be problematic that a top expert can only be employed by one employer. He's being limited to the possibility that he can work with himself. According to the Labour Act, he can't work with himself, but I know in my community, and also in other environments, that healthcare professionals find it difficult to decide to leave their health center and shyly prepare emergency rooms, and perhaps they should be allowed to dare enter the private sector. So we would work indirectly to strengthen the private sector, which at some point could compete with our state sector. Because the state sector, as it is now, has no competition and is therefore insufficiently efficient. He has to get the competition to be better and more efficient. This is how he behaves quite muddy. You know, as a private, I'm thinking about whether or not I'm gonna take a nurse to work. And the state sector very easily receives personnel, nurses, nurses, maids, drivers, plumbers, commercialists, various professions and our health centres in state property are overbooked. So, we'll have big problems when we start talking about it and work on it. We have to do this reform as soon as possible, and without a minister, we're seven months away. Reform laws are necessary because health care will collapse deeper and deeper.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-09-0.u19903	The People's MP Milan Stankovic has the word, and after that, the People's Messenger Arsen Kurjački.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-09-0.u19904	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Vice-President of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as the Vice-President of the Republic Government said before us are two draft laws - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection and Health Insurance Act. Of course this isn't about reform laws, and that's what these proposals show. It is not necessary to say that health is the most important thing for all of us, including society in general. It depends not only on personal happiness, but we can, if we put it on paper and calculate it, to establish, the health of the nation, or the practical and material well-being of it. Unfortunately, this government's health of citizens is in the last place. I would remind you that the basic motto of this government was reforming and adopting reform laws, which should be governed by the areas for which these laws are being passed, and which should practically lead to prosperity in these areas. If it is reform laws in the field of health, this should also lead to the improvement of the entire area of health, which is a very sensitive issue for every society, as my colleagues have discussed, previous speakers. Most citizens, of course, saw that it was not exactly how the government wanted to show it, and their relationship with this area, according to the area of health, the government showed the past year through two things. First, if the Government were well-intentioned and honest and wanted to show concern for the health of citizens, health laws should be held at the National Assembly session among the first, not among the last, as is happening now, which we can all see. On the other hand, another indicator of the government's relationship to the nation's health is the fact that we haven't had a health minister in months. Perhaps the minister is not the most important in the whole story, but the lack of a minister is a good indicator of the government's relationship to this area. Instead of all this, the only thing the government has been dealing with in recent months is personal issues, as if citizens are now much easier because of these personal issues. It was more important for the government than the promotion of the most sensitive area, which is the area of health care, to change judges and prosecutors, to propose legislation, e.g. about cultural goods, to change directors in health institutions. Instead, we have two draft laws before us - amending and supplementing the Health Protection Act and the Health Insurance Act, and it is absolutely not about reform laws. These changes that have been proposed are not only unfavourable for most citizens, but also unfavourable for health workers. The first objection concerns Article 1. The draft law amending and supplementing the Health Protection Act, and the objections on my part, i.e. by the SPS parliamentary group, are similar or almost identical to those of colleagues who spoke before me. One refers to the issue of duty and overtime, because, practically, the promoter here tried to level out overtime and duty. I would mention a third category that the government has not mentioned or included in this bill, which is what is called a preparedness which is also known in health institutions. My colleagues have tried to explain what overtime is; I really don't know if anyone doesn't want to or can't understand what overtime is, but I think it's quite clear -- the work that happens after the regular work is practically overtime. So if someone started their work in the morning at 7:00 and finished it at 3:00 in the afternoon, and they have to keep working after that time, then it's called overtime. As far as duty is concerned, as my predecessors have tried to explain, it is a special category of work carried out in health institutions and which is practically done not only in the nights, but also in the afternoons. It is known that in the afternoon and night classes in health institutions, especially the stationary type, there remains a much smaller number of doctors and other healthcare professionals who have to practically do the same amount of work as during the morning work when most employees are present. What I have mentioned is that it is a so-called preparedness (that is a special category and third category that the Government has not mentioned here), and that is when someone is obliged to be available for a certain period of time to the health care institution, which, of course, should be paid specifically by the health care institution. On the other hand, in the same article of the bill, health care professionals are given the opportunity to work shifts. Just imagine what's going to happen to a patient who's been treated by more doctors because of his shift work in completely different ways. As far as health insurance law is concerned, it is also said that, absolutely correct, these changes are necessary because of the harmonisation of the gross principle of profit accounting, as well as compliance with the Labour Act. The SPS parliamentary group voted against the Labour Act, and will therefore vote against this bill, as the Labour Act, as well as this law, is more unfavourable for Serbian citizens than previous laws. We believe that it is much bigger, or one of the reasons why we will vote against this health insurance law next to the other members is Article 10, which provides that the funds of the Institute are to be paid in the following cases - labour injury and professional illness, voluntary tissue and organ giving and maintenance of pregnancy. We believe that the fourth category should be included, and that is child care, regardless of what is already included in other laws, because it is much more security for parents and for that sick child to be paid 100% in payment from the Republic Office, not to transfer it to local self-government, because in that case, the question is whether local self-government will have enough funds for this compensation. For all these reasons, we will vote against these two draft laws - and against the bill on health care, and against the bill on health insurance. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-09-0.u19905	Thank you. The speaker of the DOS parliamentary group, MP Cedomir Jovanovic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-09-0.u19906	Mrs. Micic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to try this debate that, at least in my opinion, went a long way beyond the framework in which it should move, to put in some order. So today we are not talking about reforming Serbian health, which must certainly be implemented and which objectively could not be implemented in just a year because there is no country in transition that implemented that reform in 365 days. We are talking about harmonising this segment of legislation with labour legislation, so something that should be a sign of equality between health insurance laws, i.e. health care laws and labour laws. Those who oppose this kind of initiative actually support the "lawless" that emerged from the fact that the two laws are not in line. I think that everyone who has talked critically about these laws so far, looking at them primarily through their reform contexts, forgets the fact that no one has tried to reform Serbian health. When we talk about the state of Serbian health, I don't think we're talking about the SPS, the SRS, the DSS, the DSS, we're talking about a society that has the right to be treated, and in these situations it has the right not to push out the party or political context first. So we're talking about a problem that is one of the most serious and deepest, a problem that can't be solved by this kind of initiative that we're talking about today. When pointing to this government and seeking its results, it is not possible to ignore the fact that this government represents to the government, which, as its priority, highlighted the reform of health and which has started this reform, primarily through personal, therefore human resources recovery, and then through a legal renewal that is somewhat late, primarily due to the political problems that have arisen within our coalition and which cannot have justification, but which are also real. So we inherited Serbian health care that had a debt of two billion marks. One fifth of our social product the Health Insurance Fund inherited as a minus. We inherited Serbian health care which, proportionally to what was invested in the previous decade, rests on the technological equipment of an ageing quarter of a century; for 25 years we are technologically lagging behind at this moment in the most prominent segments of our healthcare for the world. If you do not understand such a thing through such a language of numbers, see what the Institute of Oncology looks like, see what Tirshova looks like, what the homes of health look like, what the first surgical, clinical center looks like and see the relationship of employees and the results of their work. I think we can talk about concrete facts here, and it would be good to focus on that, so let's talk about extra work, overtime and shift work. That argument, which collapses the system of work in shifts, is not acceptable and is not sustainable. It is true that there is no example in Europe, but there is no situation in Europe like the one we are facing today. How much does it cost to work overtime in this country, and how much does it cost to work in shifts? So, do all those who get paid every first salary through the same work? It may be called a "equilibration," but it is our situation that we have tried to remove, among other things, that regulation that has not had much effect and which in its setting was wrong because it has practically evened out some kind of work that in itself do not have any touch points. So shift work is something that needs to be supported. The situation is that we don't have the means to work overtime. The best doctors know among themselves which of them works and these differences are large, but these differences are practically analized every first month when they receive a salary for their work. You have doctors who operate 12 hours a day, but they are precedentd in their midst and there are not many. We must once put an end to this kind of behavior and then enter into a reform that will correct all those illogicalities that are mostly paid by citizens and doctors who are obliged to take care of our society and its segment. I think the idea of supplemental work is something that every doctor should support and I didn't recognize any rational argument in the criticism of this kind of change that my predecessors said from this pay phone. Therefore, further work is legalising the activities of doctors in those situations where he can engage in another hospital, in another health care facility, whether it is a social or private sector. As for the volunteer work contract, or the supplemental contract, it is only the right to regulate something that has existed so far in our lives and something that, because it was not legally regulated, produced many illogicalities and burdened those treated in this way. The overtime clause exists. No one excludes the possibility of overtime, but it limits the time of the overtime and determines the circumstances under which overtime can be done. I think we can also discuss some of the wrong, or bad consequences followed by the shift organisation of work in health care institutions, in those situations where small health institutions or patients have an irregularity, since they did not get a proper shift with the doctor. That's why I'm asking you to take a step back and see how the basic health care system is organized. There are shifts there, so when you take your child to a pediatrician, you monitor whether that doctor works Monday mornings or works afternoons. When you go to the doctor of general practice, you follow whether that doctor who's been treating you for years, who has your medical records and who knows you exactly as it is necessary to know you doctor so that he can do this job carefully, works before or afternoon. The system will also be passed on to that segment of healthcare that has so far remained beyond such a type of employment. But it's no one's whim. That's our need. Those who think it is not realistic should say where funds are found in the Republic of Serbia's budget that can be paid for overtime and who can tolerate something that does not exist in the world. The working day of doctors in the European Union starts at 9:00 p.m., and ends at 6:00 p.m. Our doctor's working day starts at 7:00 and ends at 2:00 p.m. We supplemental, or overtime actually cover from 14.00 to 7.00 hours the next day. This country can't pay for it. It's better fair to tell people than to push them into some job that comes out of it with a minus two billion or destroyed hospitals. The government and this parliamentary group are carefully performing in the health insurance segment, in the health care segment, carefully performing in the health reform. We regret that she has been distracted by politicization, but I don't think at this point we have a different choice than the one we resort to, with the obligation that the health minister, who will be elected after the amendment of the Ministry Act, will make up for everything that hasn't been done since September of the month until today. So these examples are unsustainable. Citing the time limit for surgery, the time it takes, the reminder that the birth lasts for 12 hours, is something that's complete nonsense. I think we could contribute to a quality solution to this problem if we could leave the party books in this situation in the pocket of our jacket or purse, bag, if it's some of our ladies or ladies, colleagues. In any case, we will uphold this law. Those who think that he should not be supported by the health confrontation with the Labour Law and thus support lawlessness.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-09-0.u19907	Right on line, MP Dejan Mihajlov, president of the DOS-DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-09-0.u19908	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, it is easy to make a demagogical debate out of every concrete matter, as we have just heard, and to use everything to accuse those of anti-reforms, these for that. If six members of this law are all that the government has done for health reform in the matter of the law, then the government is indeed reforming. If you with these six members boast that you are the reform government and you are bringing reforms into health care, then I don't know what reforms are. If you are the most reforming government in Europe right now, then your reforms are what this law is about, and that's six members. Ladies and gentlemen, let's see the reform laws, let's see how the drugs are obtained, whether there are stronger ones in the government's college, and whether the conclusion of the government's college is stronger than the government's conclusion on the supply of drugs, how it works, how it works, how it works, how it works in this country, and how it works on the supply of medicines and the organisation of health care. Let's see how the directors of the health care are replaced, if the official of the duties can sign the discharges of the director of the health center or whatever else. We at the DSS, this is seen in the list of those who talked about this agenda point, and these are exclusively people who understand health care, we did not want to politicise this debate; it mainly referred to professional people who made professional remarks and who thus debated. What we have heard now is a simple politicisation of a single topic such as health care, which includes most of our citizens who all need to be treated. We of the DSS, above all, believe that this law, as such, (of course we will vote for it) is something that is a change, but absolutely insufficient, something that is harmonising with the Labour Act and as such we will support it, but it is something that is absolutely insufficient, inadequate. We believe that the reform government should provide us with more than six members and the illegal replacement of health centres directors across Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-09-0.u19909	Before we finish, just a brief notice: the session of the Legislative Committee will be held at the session break, at 1400 hours, in Hall I on the ground floor.
