ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23603	Ms. Micic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would first like to thank you for the understanding you showed during yesterday through respecting the reasons that led the DOS parliamentary group to put in an emergency session of the Republic of Parliament and this item of the agenda for the urgent procedure. I think that, because of the exceptional importance and importance of the topic that we are discussing today, this discussion should go three ways: as responsible people, we should explain the reasons why we are looking for a committee of inquiry to be formed before the Republic of Parliament, to discuss how the commission works, if it is formed, and to define together the objectives of this work. As far as the reasons for the establishment of a survey committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia are concerned, which should look at the situation and determine the facts of the existence or lack of abuse of the official position of top state officials and the unauthorized conduct of a person in their service, in the most concrete and clear sense, the Republic Parliament has been forced to do so. The DOS parliamentary group launched this initiative before the Greater Citizens, or the Greater Republic of the Federal Assembly, not because we believe that the Republic Parliament does not have the right to discuss this issue; during the presentation of some of our intentions on ways of working and the survey committee, I will quote a member of the Constitution and the business rights that allow us to work on this survey committee. It was precisely because we felt that the problem that was launched - the public appearances of the president of the SRJ and his suspicions of allegedly listening by another state body of the Republic government, at the same time the replacement of the Chief of Staff, who, with a number of his associates, pointed to the harsh abuses of the country's armed forces - was too serious to settle exclusively in front of the Republic Parliament. It is clear that with its content and scope, it shakes the whole society, so SRJ too. I think that, as a general public, you are aware of everything that has actually made up your mind about making a decision so that this polling committee can start working on a federal level. So, the DOS parliamentary group launched the initiative almost a month ago, held a series of consultations with the presidents of all parliamentary groups in the Federal Assembly, began a session of the Council of Citizens and then found that there was no political will needed to discuss such a large issue at the level of the federal state; that there was no political will and courage to, without prejudicing the final position and taking any person and institution at the level of the federal state, determine whether someone was abused, abused, and how such a kind of behaviour should be answered by parliament. I think that this is a very serious reason and that, seeing the lack of political will at the federal level, the Republic of Serbia, or we as representatives of the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we need to talk responsibly here, look each other in the eye and say whether we are politicians who do not have the courage to ask these questions. Do we, as politicians, make a mistake bigger than all those we have done in our work in the previous period, because it is clear that despite everything that is positive, this congregation has its dark moments. I think today's debate and the formation of a polling commission is an opportunity to bring down all those barriers, made not only in the last year and a half, but also in the last decade, that as responsible politicians we provide some very important and clear formulations and facts that could give the public an accurate view of our political reality. When we talk about the president of the SRJ, we talk about one institution, we don't talk about one person so much. For us, the president of the SRJ is an institution, which deserves a lot of respect, because it gathers all those political wills of millions of citizens of our society. When we talk about the Republic Government, we are talking about the institution this Parliament has given legitimacy to. From this we have the right to verify whether the Republic government is an institution that after a year and a half breaks down fragile democracy in Serbia or trying to do everything to make that democracy more stable. When we talk about the Yugoslav Army Chief of Staff, we are not talking about Milosevic's general, we are not talking about Nebojsa Pavkovic, whose shift we were looking for for for a year and a half. We're talking about an institution. The parliament has the right to ask a question and seek an answer, as the other parliament did not have the courage to do so. Is this institution misused? Is it in some decision-making process bypassed; has it been mistreated? He who acts in such a way with the institution of the Chief of Staff, that is, the Yugoslav Army, devalues everything that we as parliament must insist on when it comes to the institutions of civil society. I can agree with all the criticism in our public regarding the work of this Parliament: when our work is described both by too sharp and tactless, often uncivilised; it can be said that sometimes we forget that we are not political enemies, but only political opponents; that our behaviour is not the best example for those we represent. But this is a good opportunity to once put an end, after a year and a half, to all scandals, all affairs, all confusions, and give the citizens of Serbia and the SRJ a clear answer, because no one else was willing to do it. What kind of answer will be, let the committee of inquiry conclude, and then let Parliament confirm through a debate that may take some time, as far as we are concerned, as many MPs want. Not because it will be an opportunity to deunciate one man or one institution, but because it will be an opportunity to make a difference between Serbia once and for all, not just over the last ten years, but throughout the entire century and the one we want to live in. When we talk about the tasks of this polling committee, I will try to give you some very important principles on which we, as a member of the DOS Group, insist, but in our opinion, do not question the rights of other parliamentary groups and representatives of other political options. We want the poll committee to send a clear message to the citizens of Serbia first that there are no more untouchable in this society, that there are no more people who cannot be called before Parliament, who cannot be asked a clear question and ask for a clear answer. Then, we want to send the citizens of Serbia and the SRJ a message that we, as a parliament, are able to assess how honest this answer is and how much it drags behind it the conconsequences that must be clear and measurable. After a year and a half of everything that has scandalned our public and indeed made Serbia a society where there is no difference between truth and truth, facts and lies, work and work and work, we want to make that difference. I will remind you of several affairs that have often been mentioned here in the Republic Parliament and which have lost their final outcome: - the arrest of Slobodan Milosevic; with the right of opposition representatives to criticise our policy. It is the decision of this government, but until today it remains beyond every real political framework, because part of it has distanced itself from it. What can the citizens of Serbia or the SRJ say today about this event? Is this the personal whim of the head of a parliamentary group, the President of the Republic Government and the Minister of Police? Is this the personal whim of several members of the DOS presidency or the political decision of the highest state bodies in this country? We never got that answer; - co-operation with The Hague tribunal and the extradition of the former president to the court; is that the personal whim of a few individuals, or was that a decision made at the highest state level again? We don't have a clear answer, because we never got it, among other things, because of the unpreparedness of the same state authorities to face it; -- numerous criminal affairs and scandals; do criminals sit in this assembly; war criminals; irresponsible people who abuse their positions? A lot of words and a lot of accusations, and never a single fact and never a single finding. If we kept going like that, then we'd make this country a society where it doesn't really matter who you're talking about and what you're talking about: the only thing that matters is that it's something. It's not a principle that we would support, and it's not a policy that we want to lead. We expect to draw a line after a year and a half and make a difference between what's black and what's white. If Parliament doesn't do it, I ask you who's going to do something like that? Citizens who chose us to do some work for them? No, they'll just withdraw into themselves and actually bring society back to that stage where we've been in the past ten years, the distance phase of every kind of concrete participation in political events, which without citizens can't be successful, either without institutions. The republican parliament, despite everything I believe, is a democratic and credible institution. He rests on the democratically expressed will of the Serbian citizens, sitting in it by political representatives of these citizens, people voted for them. These people today have the right to wonder what will happen to them, if the Republic Government or any of its agencies is listening to the president of the SRJ; what will happen to any MP in this assembly? Will we have the right to say that's not true if we don't determine something like that? We'll have no right. By silence, we will, in fact, support that kind of thinking, because silence is too silent consent. On the other hand, would that citizen be able to feel secure if he didn't get an answer to the question of whether anyone was trying to abuse the country's armed forces, whether someone humiliated the General Staff institution, the hierarchy in the service, and all of this subdued the cabinet and the salon's attitude? If you don't answer that kind of question, then none of us can sleep peacefully and tell people around them that they're doing the same; because, who can guarantee that tomorrow someone else won't enter your apartment; who can guarantee that no new orders will be issued, the next logic -- we tried once, nothing happened, let's try again. For these very reasons, the DOS wants to give both the opportunity to the president of the SRJ and the members of its most important environment, his advisors, to remove from themselves the shadow of doubt and to present themselves to the kind of people we saw when we supported them, the Democrats who respect the institutions, understand the responsibility of the political decisions they make and of that responsibility do not run away, and especially not in the truth. Then, we want to get a clear answer from the Republic Government: whether it is as we described it when we voted it here; whether it is a government that is bravely facing problems, which solves problems, does not hesitate to point out problems to the public, does not give way to pressures, if these pressures are caused by impotence, but has an understanding for those who cannot follow this pace; or whether it is the Republic Government sitting in which several volunteers, who abuse institutions, the Assembly does not submit reports, makes decisions beyond the public; and finally, it challenges constitutional order, because listening to the SRJ president is the collapse of constitutional order. It is, under the Code of Criminal Procedure, one of the most serious crimes in this country. This has to be sanctioned. We ask to determine whether these people are responsible or not, because by silence we leave the public to interpret whether they like it or not and whether something is true or not. We want it to be cleared up, to remove from ourselves every shadow of doubt, because this parliament will not give the government coverage for that kind of behavior, but it will not allow anyone else -- who has the most problems, counting everything she inherited after half a century, not just ten years of problematic relations in our society -- to disabling in such a way, by throwing away libel, slander, without any fact. If someone treats the Republic Government like this, tomorrow they will treat the Assembly, the parliamentary group, the MP, and in a week or two towards any citizen in our society. More than a strong reason for the DOS parliamentary group, and I believe that no ad hoc charge is recognized in those reasons, nor is the final position of the DOS MPs representing us on the secretive committee prejudged. As for the way we work, we cannot escape the fact that this parliament has formed several survey committees, not polling committees, in its recent history since 1991; then we can move on to the Federal Assembly and the survey committees formed in the case of Strpci or in the case of foreign currency savings, or pyramid banks, Dafiment Bank and Jugocank; on the tragedy of former Defence Minister Mr Bulatovic; then tragedy at the Ibar Masteral. The work and results of these survey committees were half-way. As a rule, he always depended on the political will of the majority and was never fully exposed to the public; sometimes for a reason. We can accept the principle that there are situations where secrecy must be respected and MPs must assume on themselves the responsibility of keeping a secret. But in those situations that I was talking about earlier -- foreign currency savings, Strpci, Ibarska highway, March 9th -- there was no reason for such behavior. That's why we want to make a precedent now and say -- this polling committee will differ from all those that existed in the past ten years. Her sessions will be public. Does that mean it'll be a chance for some people to get muddy? No, it won't allow members of the survey committee and we're looking for an understanding of that attitude. We want there to be no more intermediaries, interpreters, secret meetings and stormed stenograms, but we will open the door of this House to anyone who wants to inform the public of what is happening during the work of that survey committee, without any hesitation. Everyone has the right to hear the testimony of Mr. Kostunica, adviser Nalic, adviser Tijanic, everyone has the right to hear the answers to Cedomir Jovanovic, Vladimir Popovic, Zoran Djindjic. We're looking for it because we're not afraid of the public, we have nothing to hide. This is the first major difference in the way this survey committee works in relation to everything that has marked the work of survey committees in our recent history. As for the team, i.e. the composition of the survey committee - it is a political reality, a full expression of the will of the citizens. To the extent that the citizens supported the parties, their representatives will also be on the survey committee. Math is sometimes cruel, but it's real and exact. At yesterday's consultations, we didn't hear that kind of dispute. The SPS saw one mistake for a reason. It was not intended but was actually the result of the situation in the party, we respected it and accepted the SPS amendment leaving the party two seats on the survey committee. We also respected the amendments to the Serbian Unity Party. These are not our coalition partners, they are not even our political allies, but we expect these people to show that there is an institution in this country that can sometimes forget about the party context, especially in situations where problems are not partyal, but much wider - social. That is why the DOS parliamentary group is pleased to accept the amendment by the Soviet Union, which determines the dynamics of the commission's work and a deadline within which the survey committee must announce the results of its findings; so that the survey committee does not happen to start work and never complete it. Within 30 working days, 19 members of the survey committee will be familiar with all that the commission has learned about these controversial events. Then -- the president's question; there is no need for the president of the polling commission. We think it would be much better to rotate a person who will chair the work of the survey committee and that it uses the same rights that the chairman of the assembly committee has. So, with our consent and appreciation of the proposal, this survey committee will work through rotations. One meeting will be chaired by a representative of the ruling coalition, the other representative of the opposition, until the work is completed. I would also like to say the following -- the Democratic Party of Serbia, the Serbian Radical Party, and based on the amendments I have seen, some from the beginning and some later, have definitely distanced themselves from the polling commission. I agree that the SRS has the right to assess whether it wants to participate in the survey committee or not. That's the real SRS. But as that party has the right to say - we do not want to participate in the survey committee because you have excluded our entire parliamentary group from the Republic Parliament, and we have the right to say - we want to participate in the survey committee and this committee of inquiry is not devalued because someone in it does not want to participate. As for the DSS, which will not even participate in Parliament's work, we are asking a public question - where do you want this problem to be solved? In which place: in the Council of Citizens, where you blocked the polling committee's vote by not agreeing to compromise, with the fact that all your demands are respected; or you want it to go as Milosevic's arrest, as an extradition to The Hague tribunal, as a Gavrilovic affair, as an affair of Perisic, as everything that has scandalned our public. I said nothing. Any -- well nothing; let him forget; let him keep quiet; let's make a deal; it's in the interest of citizens and society; it doesn't matter that I said I didn't know someone was delivered to The Hague tribunal; it doesn't matter why I don't know someone's getting arrested. We know it's not like that, but let's appreciate the interest that it's better not to prolong this problem than to leave it so unsolved. This is not the policy that we are behind, and if the DSS knows an institution that can solve this political problem, let it tell us, but let us not ask ourselves to agree that things will be left without this final epilogue and that they will not put an end to that kind of political behaviour, which is unacceptable to democratic society. As far as the SPS is concerned, I am familiar with the party's amendment, which actually means only one thing: it is distanced from yesterday's agreement by the heads of parliament and withdraws its consent to participate in the work of this polling commission. The explanation may sound logical. At the same time, the SPS is asked to examine the circumstances under which Slobodan Milosevic was arrested, or delivered to The Hague tribunal. Legally - it's not the subject of this survey committee and it was known during yesterday. So with the first one here, we can ask the question: is it a sincere wish of the SPS; is the SRS really sincere when it insists on these principles; or is it part of a political project and agreement that helps a political option and the person who needs it, because there is no argument for her own position and what she did. The Federal Assembly's poll committee wasn't formed amongst other things and because the SPS didn't vote for such a thing -- but then the argument of that party was -- you agree, and we will support it; don't ask us to solve things, but -- come on, you who can't agree on anything, so we'll back it up -- as well as the SNP. But Slobodan Milosevic was in The Hague and last Thursday, so no one in the Federal Assembly said -- we insist and will give our support to the polling commission if the topic of her work is the arrest of Slobodan Milosevic. That is why it is the most ordinary political manipulation of a man who is in prison of his party friends who do not care, realistically, about Slobodan Milosevic. You've never respected any of his demands, and therefore don't throw any dust into our eyes with such pamphlets. We don't agree to that. The path to truth is wide, and on it we do not choose companions. The DOS invites all parliamentary groups to engage in this work. We guarantee you that the principles of the commission's work will be as confirmed yesterday. Among other things, they'll be confirmed by voting on these amendments, but we don't feel less valuable because someone doesn't have the courage to get involved in the job. Because for us, it's a political cowardice. All of you who think you're the subject of police pressure or abuse - go ahead, talk to the Minister of Police, and the Chief of Public Security, and the Chief of State Security, and see if that's possible or not. Say, Vojislav Kostunica has been tapped, and that's why we think we live in a police state. Or say - he's not listening, he's telling the truth, and we don't want to have a president hiding behind it or trying to make such an introduction. We will cut off the support of the Republic government if what Kostunica is saying is true, but we will give it full support if that is not true, in defending the principles on which the Republic Government must rest, and the Republic Parliament and democratic Serbia. Just a few more administrative and technical questions. Given the disputed legitimacy of the Commission's work... Mr. Seselj, I didn't... (President: National MP Cedomir Jovanovic has the right to speak without limit because he is the Proposer...) )......................................................................................................... Not so far depends on what you're suggesting, just a little patience and we'll be done. Therefore, as regards the legal basis of the survey committee, the legality and legitimacy on which it must rest - the polling commission has the right to ask the national authorities and individual data organisations, documents and notifications, and to take statements from the individuals it needs. Article 71(4) So he has the right to ask the state authorities and data organizations, IDs and notifications. Is the president of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia a state body? Is the Chief of General Staff a state authority? Is the Republic Government a state body? Of course they are. And in this position of this member, we see the full right to invite every person we consider necessary to the committee of inquiry. We do not have the right to force her to come, although she is obliged to do so, but the failure will be clearer than any response given to the members of that committee, because the failure will be a silent confirmation of all the charges made in the previous month and we have been facing for a year and a half. As for state secrets, military secrets, calling for those secrets, there must be no secrets in front of the survey committees. The polling committees may respect the specificity and exclusion of the public, but in front of parliament and the bodies appointed by parliament should not be secret. Because if there are secrets in front of parliament, then let's close parliament. Well, somebody else runs this country because he's capable of something like that, because he's judged us incompetent, who don't need to make a statement. So, a clean-handed policy after a year and a half of the dirt that everyone is dirty with, the principle policy should begin in this Parliament, although it has rightly been inconclusive. If we don't do it with our own procedure, then we're worse than our predecessors because we cheated on society. Our predecessors never spoke like us. Never. They did not view us as representatives of the opposition competent for some problem, they never presented in public the problems facing the Yugoslav Army or the president of the state. They kept their shifts quiet. I don't want to say whether it's cultural or not, by procedure or not, but it is public and without the trauma of the public. When Chief of Staff Perisic was removed, there was an official statement, but there were no problems like this that we are facing today. Is it the ability of the authorities to sort things out within their ranks or is it a desire to cover things up, to interpret the public. I can't judge about it today, but if we go over everything that's been said, then we'll be worse than the bad things they've been hiding from others. Thank you. [[Employer Pelevic is looking for a replica.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23604	What's the basis for the replica? I didn't really hear him say anything offensive about any of the MPs. Come on, come on in. There is a word from MP Borislav Pelevic, the authorised representative of the Assembly Group of the Soviets.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23605	Dear citizens of Serbia, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, was agreed yesterday at a meeting of the heads of parliament's groups to set up a polling committee to investigate the so-called "Second People's Republic of Serbia". an affair with Pavkovic. However, a new moment came today. We are now learning that the Socialists have decided to give up their decision to participate in the commission. Therefore, since we do not want to interfere with the relations between the DSS and the rest of the DOS, because it is obvious that this whole affair is in fact a struggle for predominance between the DOS and the DSS, unless any of the other colleagues from the opposition groups wants to participate in the work of the commission, we also give up, because yesterday it was agreed that the MPs of other opposition parties will participate. We do not want, alone, as an opposition, to participate in your struggle for supremacy and in clearing up your mutual affairs. This affair has caused our country's reputation in the country and in the whole world. This affair is actually just a struggle for overpower and overpower, a struggle for power between one side of the DOS. In these circumstances, we do not want to participate. Therefore, we withdraw our consent that the Soviet Union participates in the polling committee on the Pavkovic affair, as other opposition colleagues have also made the same decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23606	Replication rights, MP Zarko Obradovic, president of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23607	The Honorable Presidency, fellow MPs, is not true that the SPS has given up participating in the survey committee's work. We said yesterday that we would expand the work of this survey committee through several amendments. We are asking them, as in the past year, to determine all the circumstances relating to the arrest, detention, kidnapping and extradition of Slobodan Milosevic to The Hague, as well as to numerous cases of illegal treatment against our people after 5 October, primarily because of ideological initiatives. If there is, as I have just heard from the president of the DOS parliamentary group, Cedomir Jovanovic, political will and courage to determine everything that has happened in Serbia in the past period, then there will be no reason not to accept this view of the Socialists, so as to establish all the circumstances related to the event; everyone will be better. Pure demagogy is a lie that the socialists do not want to participate in this; they do, but with those reasons and reasons which are close to the socialists. We don't want to participate in something that's part of a political bickering, something that, according to the speaker who just said it, should cover all those affairs and all those events that have contributed to DOS ratings. If it is understood that this survey committee was formed to make use of one event to affirm DOS policy at the expense of someone else, and that we should participate, then you have the wrong address. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23608	The speaker of the DOS parliamentary group, MP Cedomir Jovanovic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23609	Ms. Micic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is your right to vote or not to support the formation of a survey committee, but there is no monopoly on facts and truth. And it is true that this is essentially a political problem: they are faced, on the one hand the DOS and all the parties that make it, and on the other the DSS. But this is not our internal coalition problem, this is not a question of a party stenogram, but of the functioning of the most important state bodies of the Republic government, the Yugoslav Army and the president of the SRJ. These are not party institutions, these are state institutions, and this logic is mentioned here, that you do not want to interfere with this kind of conflict, you are in fact denying yourself the right to participate in any other political work, that at any time you are discussing the work of the Republic Government, President of the SRJ, as representatives of other parties on the work of the Yugoslav Army. That's not true. We do not consider ourselves less valuable because the representatives of the opposition do not want to participate in this, their intention is obviously not to establish the truth. Because what does Amendment 2 have to do with the amendment that you submitted on 16 July, which says, "At point 2 of the final order behind the word "unlawful treatment" is added the point and the words "infringement of the rights and freedom of the citizens", and the words "state officials" are added to the point and the words "state authorities". Mr. Obradovic, Slobodan Milosevic was in The Hague yesterday, was in The Hague last week, he was in The Hague for a year. You are not interested in the fate of Slobodan Milosevic. You want to make a political profit on his problem, because you filed a amendment today that has nothing to do with the one you filed yesterday, and this one you pulled yesterday, and that's your right. We do not deny you this right, but do not deceive, not the congregation and us, for we know each other very well, but the public. The president of any state, even if he's an ex, deserves basic respect. Slobodan Milosevic is our national tragedy, not only your party, but he must not be the subject of this kind's political marrilitluk. This has nothing to do with the truth. This is just a hoax. And if you are, then we don't need you on the committee of inquiry. Because if you had respected the truth, Serbia wouldn't be like this today.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23610	The word has a National MP, Zarko Obradovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23611	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the right of the SPS MPs in this and in each other's parliament will not be determined by any assembly majority, but by the will of the citizens of Serbia and the number of votes we receive. You cannot compare the Republic and the Federal Assembly, depending on whether it suits you or not. Both SPS parliamentary groups in the Federal and Republic Parliament cannot, on the same basis, ask for a debate on a matter. If the issue of Pavkovic's affair and everything that arises from it -- who was listening to whom, why, why, did anyone order an incursion here -- to bring down from the federal level here, to seek a legal basis, to see neither rational nor legal reason to question arrest, take, kidnapping and extradition of Slobodan Milosevic, means everything that was absolutely the jurisdiction of the Republic and where it was found and the legal basis, is not the subject of this parliament's work. If you want, then go ahead, adopt the amendments. Yesterday, we said we were looking for enlargement, and today we have set it up, to see which state officials and state authorities participated in what is called illegal treatment and abuse of official office, and we believe, as a parliamentary group, that there is a basis for discussing this. If the assembly majority does not want it, it is her right, but we also have the right, as we asked since August of last year, to ask that this issue be put on the agenda and to see who arrested, kidnapped and extradited Slobodan Milosevic, on which legal basis and who took part.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23612	We are continuing to discuss the motion for a decision. One brief notice - 9th session of the Defence and Security Committee will be held today at 1200 hours, in Hall and on the ground floor. Now I ask if the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want the word? Here's a word from MP Vojislav Seselj, president of the SRS parliamentary group; the total time is 20 minutes, twice 10 minutes; do you use it?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23613	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, survey committees are one of the most important democratic flows of the development of European Parliamentism and serve to directly interfere parliament with the work of the executive and judicial authorities. There they are usually formed where the executive and judicial authorities are shown to be in trouble or unable to carry out their constitutional and legal powers. Poll committees are bodies whose basic principle of work is based on insistence on impartiality in determining the truth, establishing facts, regardless of how someone who has authority and power reacted to these facts. In our parliamentary practice, these polling committees have shown some particularly high results when we look at all those committees so far formed. However, there have been polling committees that have worked very successfully, it may be a random coincidence, administrative committees whose formation was initiated by the SRS. The first was the poll committee in the Federal Assembly for Dafiment, Jugoscank and Central Bank, the Assembly accepted the formation, and then the work was mined from the opposition's ranks, by Strahinja Kastratovic, who was then a DEPOS MP, and is now a member of the Democratic Party. Now he's a member of the DS, he may not be a functioner, but he joined you. Okay, maybe this isn't true, you can deny me afterwards, but it's about Stranja Kastratovic, and here is a significant accent given on his name, not on party membership. He was then a DEPOS MP in the Federal Assembly, and as a member of the polling committee, he did not want to support the election of Zoran Krasic, a member of the SRS, as president, but was running for office and thus made it possible to elect Vukasin Jokanovic. It was already a mine in the beginning. The polling committee did, however, have significant results, but never was discussed in the Federal Assembly. We Serbian radicalized the survey board's materials in the book, "What took the left, that he didn't know the right". The same year, with Radoj Kontic on the front page kissing Dafina Milanovic. The second survey committee was on the Ibar highway case. The SPO's first attempt was unsuccessful. The SRS initiative formed the committee, he successfully completed his work, submitted a report, and in the meantime there were elections and you never put that report on the agenda, although it was also meant to be submitted to the new assembly, after the work was completed, the Assembly has continuity and this should be on the agenda. At the beginning of this year, we had an Survey Committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the murder of Defence Minister Pavel Bulatovic. The Committee of Auditors was very successful. As Cedomir Jovanovic was recently advocated for the public of work, the polling committee also advocated, and the final view of his findings was that the report and the complete material must be made available to a wider scientific, professional political public. It seems available by printing. The secretive board, although very successful in completing its work -- even found out who the killer is, with a high probability percentage (99%) that it is Ivan Delic, and recently Ivan Delic was almost a victim and was wounded in an assassination attempt by St. Stefan -- we are exposed to the barbaric fire of all your media, from all sides. The problem was that we published a stenogram, not just the contents of the report. There are no state secrets in the work of the survey board and crime or violation of the Constitution and the law is being discovered here. It can't be a secret when someone's dealing with crime, breaking the Constitution, breaking the law, what could be a secret? There are no plans to defend the country, a list of our secret agents in foreign countries or operational data on foreign agents we've already discovered here, and it's not yet time to be publicly exposed. What could be a secret? So there's no need to talk about secrecy and everything has to be public. However, the parliamentary majority, with its subsequent stance on the polling committee's report, showed not only lack of interest in results, but an incredible impact on these results. Why were they hit? That's the key question. This is about a committee of inquiry that, in the nature of things, would have to be formed in the Federal Assembly because it was about the jurisdiction of the federal state. (Kedomir Jovanovic, from the place: the Republic Government!) ) Not the Republic Government, but the work of the Federal President and the Yugoslav Army, or its special services and advisers, of the Federal President. They're on the wallpaper, I guess. That's how you formulated the title of this survey board. You have formulated it as a threat to the Republic government by the federal authorities, and that is the essence of your formulation. You didn't do it completely impartially, but it's not that important, I'm not talking about it, I'm talking about other things. There's a problem here at the beginning. No one outside the jurisdiction of the republic's authority is required to appear before the survey board, no federal official, no Yugoslav Army officer; because when the constitution says the jobs of the state authorities, it is thought of the state authorities of Serbia, and the federal state authorities and officials are obliged to respond to the federal parliament's survey committee. (Kedomir Jovanovic, from Place: Rade Markovic - Federal Authority? ) Rade Markovic was not a federal authority, but Rade Markovic now has no direct connection to this. Mr. Jovanovic, let me make this all the way to the end, so you'll have more opportunities to speak, since you're a promoter, you can pick up whenever you think of it. I didn't mean for you to like what I said from this pay phone, but on the contrary, it's my intention that you don't like any of my words. I'm a representative of the SRS, the opposition. I have to tell you that I don't like you. Next, we're ugly and evil, but we're not dirty and you all have to admit it. We worked ugly and evil, throwing Milk away, but we're not dirty and that's the basic thing. When survey committees are formed, then it is taken into account that the fact of who in parliament has a majority and who has a minority is neutralized. Regular congregation working bodies are formed on the principle of proportionality, but if that principle were sufficient in researching such facts, then there would be no need to form a special survey committee, this could be done by regular assembly committees. Here, another principle is inserted, the principle of reciprocity, when all parliamentary groups should be represented in the same way. In countries of particularly developed democracy, the opposition's representative is elected president of the polling committee, as it is assumed to be much less biased than the government's representative. The Committee does not investigate the opposition's behaviour. There are courts, police, prisons for the opposition. The committees deal with the people of power. The Serbian Radical Party was here instead of the basic issue on the wallpaper, why we will not participate. Now I'm going to explain to you exactly why we're not going to participate, and those 27 minutes I'm going to use to speak...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23614	No, you have 10 minutes left as president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23615	I've got 27 minutes later.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23616	But you won't suddenly be 27, because the other presidents of the parliamentary groups have the right.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23617	Okay, but don't give me a minute or two, just ten, fifteen minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23618	No, you have 10 minutes left now.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23619	First, because we believe that there are no regulatory conditions for normal work and for the functioning of parliament from the beginning in this assembly. In parliamentary tradition, there is a principle, when permanent congregation working bodies are formed, that this is done in a proportionate manner and that these parties are affected, priced, on the apothecary scales that should have participation in congregation working bodies. You avoided it by asking for a few committees to be formed first, where they would be your presidents, and then on the other committees to agree with the opposition parties. You can and you can do this, it's not against the constitution. You can only have your members in all the congregation working bodies, because you have a majority, but then don't ask why radicals didn't want to participate. We didn't want him to be our party vice president and a member of any of the working bodies. If you are not willing to respect the principle until the end, to agree, to clearly measure how much everyone can participate in these working bodies, then take responsibility, take over everything in your hands, and don't be surprised we don't participate in it. This assembly in an incredible way, on three occasions changing the Rules of Procedure, denied the rights of opposition parties and formalized its work to the end. You went so far (you should have thrown it while Cedomir Jovanovic spoke - theme, theme), that you also denied your MPs the right to speak. Furthermore, in this assembly you have introduced the fine of the MPs. You did not find a similar practice of modern parliaments similar to a solution and you did not show it. In this National Assembly, you showed willingness to brutally disperse Serbian Radical Party MPs and take them out of the O.R. You know, there are other parliaments, where a decision to exclude MPs is voted, a way to really achieve it, but it's not coming true that day, but it's waiting for the day to pass, so at the door the next day, the MP stops, every day, if necessary while there are MPs, but it's not the police. Well, maybe the spider is wearing it, of course.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23620	Please return to the agenda theme.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23621	This is the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23622	You're pretty far away.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23623	I'm explaining why we won't participate.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23624	You've been pretty far away from the subject in an explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23625	No, I didn't.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23626	Yeah, I'm estimating that.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23627	I'm explaining and that's the only reason why we won't, I have no other reason. And I'm touched by the truth, how all Kostunica has violated the Constitution and how you've all violated the Constitution. That's what gets me the most. I wanted to go to the Federal Assembly, but there was a disturbance among the opposition MPs on how to prevent Seselj from being a member of that polling committee. It's been going on for hours and it's a fact. In the Federal Assembly, however, the opposition was not persecuted in this way as it is here. That's a fact. There is a huge difference between the way the federal and the republic's parliament works, relative to the opposition, according to the principles of parliamentaryism. And there's abuse, and there's the one who's counting the votes adding three four votes, so falsely present the results of the vote, etc. There are many problems, but there is a huge difference between the two parliaments. No MP has been expelled from the session there. We had a case there that the minister attacked a physical MP, and there's no way that an MP attacked someone in this term. The one already replaced Krapović, but it is already... (Kedomir Jovanovic: Who did he attack? I'll explain to you, Chad after the session. Furthermore, you have collectively kicked out of the session of the entire Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group. You collectively punished her, although there were neither Stevo Dragisic nor Bozidar Vucurovic at the session at that time, and they were also punished by being kicked out of the session. How is that possible? You may have made a mistake in the moment, but since you don't want to correct a mistake when it's already a mistake, you're all quiet, it's an interpretation and no one knows anything. The manner is unbearable in the work of parliament. Then, additionally in the wrong way, you interpret the Rules of Procedure. It stands in the Rules of Procedure - when an MP is expelled from the session, the sentence shall last until the end of the session or 20 working days, or the day of work of parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23628	People's MP, I warn you that you have strayed from the subject of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23629	Why didn't you warn Cedomir Jovanovic? He has led the controversy here with opposition parties and their desire or unwilledness regarding participation in the polling committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23630	He stuck to the subject of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23631	You can kick me out now and that's the best solution for me and probably for you. You can do it freely, but I think it's about time you stopped acting like one.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23632	I'm not gonna kick you out, I'm just warning you to stick to the agenda theme.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23633	Here, if you kick me out, you don't need the police, I'll leave right now, but you can't stop me until you kick me out, to explain why the Serbian Radical Party...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23634	You have a concrete motion for a decision.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23635	I don't want that concrete proposal, I explain why the Serbian Radical Party won't participate.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23636	Then hold a press conference. Every MP has the right to hold a press conference in the National Assembly, so explain your views.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23637	I'm not holding a press conference. I am obliged to announce to the National Assembly and the Serbian public why the Serbian Radical Party will not participate in this survey committee and you have no right to prevent me from doing so. You can take my word and I'll go right away, but while I'm at the pay phone, you won't stop me from explaining it. No, you won't, you won't. Furthermore, here you have thrown out the days of the session when the committees are sitting, Monday, Friday, etc., then there is no assembly session, only to keep them out of parliament for as long as possible. For us, this is a much more serious problem than what Kostunica's advisers do, whether Kostunica abuses the military service of security or whether Vladimir Popovic Baby organises a listening device. It's a much more difficult problem for us. There is an even more difficult problem, with the Democratic Party of Serbia. You kicked her MPs out of parliament, against the law. The law does not say anywhere that the MP can be taken from office unless he attends sessions, or that the party or coalition is the owner of the mandate. If the MP ceases his membership in the party, he may cease his term in office in the Assembly. That's what you did. You are now socialists, although the Socialists deserve it, but it does not deserve Serbia, did what the Socialists did to us with John Glamocan and with Miroslav Deret. You are now not going to free their vacant seats. You're holding their John the Glamocan and their Miroslav Derrett in the assembly benches. The Socialist Party deserves it, because it has treated the opposition in the same way, but the National Assembly of Serbia does not deserve it, because the National Assembly defies its legality and legitimacy in this way, by direct violations of the law. I know it suits you, you like it. To some other parties, you changed MPs immediately. As far as I know, the Foreigners of Serbian Unity on several occasions, as soon as they announced that someone had been disfellowshipped from the party. You didn't even get into a problem, and here you say until it's determined which side is the right side, like you don't know what's at stake, what's in action. You know everything, but you have a different archin. That's all the reasons. How can you expect the entire Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group to be away from the session without us working with you. We can't go to church with you politically. We're not haters, we don't hate each other, because you did that to us and that. There's that highest judge who's gonna reward everyone and his actions and his misdeeds. Political co-operation in this way for us to expect, so that's impossible. Why are you criticizing us for this? We're here to criticize you, and you're criticizing the opposition for not cooperating with you. So why should we cooperate with you? There's no reason to convince us of that. You decided to form, so be my guest. Of course, and get a jeep, and get all the money you've taken from the SRS back, and cancel all those illegal measures and decisions you've implemented against us, and only then normalize the atmosphere in parliament. Until then, there's no normalization, there isn't. That's why... (President: Time, I warn you of time overruns.) )......................................................................................................... Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you want to spend this, so spend the way you're used to running the National Assembly for two years.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23638	Replica, MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23639	Mrs. Micic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, is absolutely the right of the opposition to decide whether she will participate in the work of this survey committee or not. This right cannot be challenged, nor should we waste our time and efforts to force someone to participate in the work of that survey committee. It is a political decision that has its clear consequences and I believe that, in accordance with that decision and the consequences, you have made your decision. We are obliged to explain to the public and to say to parliament: yesterday we have respected the principles that have been mentioned; we can have understanding of your views that you have expressed; but the DOS parliamentary group is not an obstacle to the formation of a polling commission. It would work in line with the rules of procedure that would be defined jointly through the presidency's rotation and with full respect for the opposition. So, yesterday as an agreement confirmed at a meeting with the president of parliament, it is through amendments submitted by parliamentary groups also confirmed. Then one parliamentary group proposed amendments to withdrawing those previously submitted. She remembered some events that happened a year ago, like they happened last night. All right, the SS doesn't want to be alone with us, and that's your right, that's not what we're arguing about. There is no reason for us to waste unnecessary energy on this subject. That's not at all questionable to us. We will consider the report before parliament and see whether we support it or not. It'll be a topic for a different kind of debate. What may be the subject of our dispute is the basis for the establishment of the survey committee and the right of the survey committee to call on certain individuals, i.e. representatives of certain state authorities. In Article 70. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which is the fourth chapter, rights and duties of the Republic of Serbia, is said to be very precise that the rights and duties of the Republic of Serbia are being exercised by certain republican authorities. Paragraph 2 states: "Freedom and rights of man and citizen, equality before law, independence and equal status of enterprises and other organisations are the basis and the measure of authority and responsibility of the republican authorities. "So, the question is the responsibility of the republican authorities. In Article 71. The constitution states: "Republic authorities, within the framework of the Constitution of established rights and duties of the Republic of Serbia, establish policy, adopt and enforce laws, other regulations and general acts, perform constitutional and judicial protection of constitutionality and legality. "It is said in Article 72 that the Republic of Serbia regulates and provides for the achievement and protection of human and citizen freedoms, constitutionality and legality, defence and security of the Republic of Serbia and its citizens, measures for emergency situations etc. Article 135 states that the rights and duties that the Republic of Serbia has under this constitution, which are exercised in the Federation under the federal constitution, will be achieved in accordance with the federal constitution. Article 2 states that when acts by the Federation authorities violate the equality of the Republic of Serbia or otherwise endanger its interests and no compensation is provided, the Republic authorities adopt acts to protect the interests of the Republic of Serbia. So these are all constitutionally established principles on which we want to establish the work of the survey committee. Your criticism would have made sense in that direction if the DOS parliamentary group had submitted this initiative to the Republic Parliament. You could say, I'm sorry, why didn't you do it in front of the Federal Assembly? It's about the Yugoslav Army, it's about the president of the SRJ, it's about the military security service, it's about the Chief of Staff. And too many federal authorities to pass the Federal Assembly. We didn't do it. We launched an initiative in front of the federal assembly, opened a debate, and in that debate we were very constructive. The participants in the consultation with the President of the Council of Citizens, Mr Micunovic, know that. All requests were respected. The DSS has requested that it be discussed exclusively whether there was a listening to the president of the state; whether or not it was; that the polling committee or, say, the DOS parliamentary group agreed to it, concluded that it was not all right. Has anyone ordered the Yugoslav Army, special forces, to enter the Republic government? Is that what he tried to do? If he did, maybe he'll try again. Maybe someone else will try. Maybe tomorrow there'll be new elections where the new president will show up, so someone will whisper to him: you know what, last time they tried and didn't pass, but there were no consequences, let's do it again. The DSS didn't want to support the committee's work. She didn't want to determine if anyone had ordered an incursion into the Republic government. I don't want to blame them for that, but they pushed themselves into a shadow of doubt that they were hiding something. In the Federal Assembly, it is not possible to form a survey committee, because the parties from Montenegro, the party coalition for Yugoslavia and the parties that have their representatives in this parliament, above all the SPS, and then the SRS, said the following: you agree with each other, and we will respect your agreement. I wasn't involved in those conversations, and I don't know if Mr. Shessel was being argued like that, I guess. I think for a reason, because Mr. Seselj published something that didn't report to the survey committee, printed the book, released it in public, and then it turned out to be a party position, a printed pamphlet in which people denunciate; everything and everyone. This was not supported by the Assembly, nor by the committee of inquiry. I believe that's why Mr. Seselj lost the support he had before and through the votes of DOS representatives. The DOS was backed by the president of the polling committee from opposition ranks; it was to examine the circumstances under which Pavle Bulatovic was killed. DOS, two years after he was killed. For two years, representatives of today's opposition were able to discuss it as a government, but they did not. They remembered that they were doing it when they became opposition, so then part of the survey committee printed a book in which he found exclusive culprits; of course - in the ranks of today's government. Well, if that were the case, we'd have been in prison long ago while you were in power and we were in the opposition. They'd have been arrested a long time ago because you arrested us for no reason whatsoever. As for the work of this survey committee, I ask you which commission, which parliament and which institution will protect this constitution? Who should take care of the freedoms of the citizens of this society? Who should protect the security of the Republic of Serbia? Is the order of the Yugoslav Army, a possible order to enter the Republic government, a threat to security? Could those people have been killed in the security of the Republic government that we inherited, who worked there for 20, 30 years. Could anyone from the Yugoslav Army have been killed? Could one of our friends, a relative, have been killed on a regular service in the Yugoslav Army? The institutions have to discuss it, and the Federal Assembly did not want to discuss it, and then we open it elsewhere, in the Republic Parliament, through respect for both the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution. The Federal Assembly's poll committee also examined a republican official during its work. The members of the survey committee spoke with numerous republican officials, although they are mobilising: I am sorry, as a republican official, I have nothing to answer to the questions of the federal authority. Where is this border between the federal state and the Republic of Serbia? She doesn't exist. That's one thing. Laws in force in the SRJ must apply in Serbia, and those in force in Serbia must apply in Yugoslavia. If this is not respected by the Federal Assembly, respect security will be achieved by the Republic Assembly; it is in accordance with the iPossitor's law and every state body will have to appear before the republic's parliament's polling committee, otherwise it will be criticised by parliament. The report will be filed, so let it be brought to the political level by the court and by the assembly. We can't invite anyone to criminal responsibility and we're not trying to. Let the courts do it. One policy must be revealed: the policy of abuse of institutions, whether they are republican, federal. And let the Republic Assembly do so, for the Federal Assembly should not.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23640	This was the presentation of Cedomir Jovanovic as the promoter. Are any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, answering for a word? The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic, president of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23641	The Honored Presidency, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, has proposed that the proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's polling committee to look at the situation and determine whether or not the abuse of the official position of top state officials and the unauthorized conduct of the persons in their service is extended through several amendments: - that the survey committee determines whether there have been abuses of the official position and of the non-authorisation of individuals, but also of the state authorities; - whether there have been any possible infringements of the fundamental freedoms of citizens; - whether there have been prior approval of the competent state authority in all these cases. The SPS parliamentary group finds that there are serious indications that public authorities or certain services carry out listening to individuals or organisations and thus collect appropriate data, allegedly for the purpose of protecting the constitutional order, i.e. preventing criminal offences, and essentially for other purposes, to compromise individuals or organisations. That there are such cases also show examples when stenograms were published from the SPS organ session. We also requested, through one of the amendments, that the survey committee determine all facts and circumstances related to the deprivement of freedom, kidnapping and extradition to The Hague tribunal of President Slobodan Milosevic, in the events of March 30th and 31st, April 1st and 28th. In June 2001, especially regarding the conduct of state authorities. In fact, we mentioned this in this explanation, and it should be known, at the time a criminal trial was conducted against Slobodan Milosevic, an investigation before the District Court. A verdict by the investigating judge accused of being held in custody and the measure was in effect on June 28th last, when there was a counter-delivery and delivery of Slobodan Milosevic to the International Criminal Tribunal in The Hague. I'd like to remind you that it's Article 316. The law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions provides that a detainee may be temporarily brought out of prison and implemented by other authorities only on the orders of the authority conducting the proceedings. Article 320 of the same law stipulates that the application of the detention measure is supervised by the President of the District Court in whose area is the seat of the prison in which the sentence is maintained. Article 321 states that a detainee is to be released from prison on the basis of a decision to suspend detention and a warrant for release from custody, brought before the court before which the proceedings are brought. Article 192. The law on criminal proceedings is prescribed for detention to be determined by the investigating judge of the competent court. The cited regulations unequivocally give rise to the conclusion that Slobodan Milosevic on June 28th had the status of a detained person over whom jurisdiction is exclusively investigated by the judge and judicial authority. The act of the government of the Republic of Serbia, a decision of 28 June, was a harsh violation of the provisions of the federal and republican constitution, numerous federal and republican laws and ratified international contracts, and as such could not be a valid legal basis for the extradition of Slobodan Milosevic to The Hague tribunal. We also asked to determine whether there were illegal acts and by authorised persons in connection with the persecution and arrest of a number of SPS members in all of those events that followed on 5 October. For the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, for the rule of law, the institutions of democracy in general, it is very important to respect the Constitution and the laws, to respect human rights and freedoms, to keep the conduct of state authorities exclusively in accordance with the Constitution and the law, to prevent and punish all cases of unauthorised and illegal treatment of individuals and bodies, whoever it is. The SPS parliamentary group, in connection with the work of this survey committee, is primarily interested in identifying the truth regarding respect for the law and possible violations of human rights and freedoms and, of course, the responsibility of all persons who have not acted under the law. We are not interested in political marketing, nor do we want to be part of a political battle that is being fought within DOS. I must say, yesterday we submitted amendments. So that we don't leave in doubt any of what we want with these amendments, today we've added the same amendments and, apparently, we've encountered a reaction that has been granted by an authorised representative but we, as an MP group, can repeat something we've been looking for since 15 October. The fate of the amendments submitted by the MPs of the SPS will also determine our participation in the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia survey committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23642	Are any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, answering for a word? The word is issued by MP Borislav Pelevic, an authorised representative of the Soviet Parliament group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23643	Dear citizens of Serbia, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, we voted yesterday against the establishment of a polling commission, because we felt that the survey committee should, above all, be educated in the federal parliament. However, since it was an indication that the president of the federal state, Dr Vojislav Kostunica, has been tapped by the authorities of the Republic government, then it can be accepted that the polling commission can also be educated in the republican parliament. What exactly is going on with this whole Pavkovic affair? I think the only institution in this country that has been unsuspecting and unique so far, which is the Yugoslav Army, practically this affair has been tarnished and divided. Allow me, there is a high probability that a large number of generals in the General Staff will side with Pavkovic, and one part of the general must side with the newly appointed chief of staff, Mr. General Branko Krga. So, the only institution that was unique and at the height of its task, the Yugoslav Army, this affair was broken. This caused damage not only to the Yugoslav military, but to the entire country both in the country and in the world, and all because of the naked struggle for power and power, to conquer the leverage of power and power between the Democratic Party of Serbia and the DOS. As a matter of fact, Pavkovic stands only a struggle to control all the institutions of this state, and in this case, the Yugoslav Army. That's not good. That's all you do is hurt yourself, and you from DOS and you from the Democratic Party of Serbia. It's obvious that both of them had a part in all of this. I would also like to say that the poll committee, without the opposition's representative in the republic's parliament, cannot have a legitimate path. It turns into a naked, frontal struggle between the Democratic Party of Serbia and the DOS. It suits us, because it'll only go to harm both of us. Of course, allow the opposition to leave the republican DOS and the federal DSS as soon as possible. This frontal struggle will speed it up and we wish you a lot of success. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23644	The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the DOS parliamentary group, as a proposing act.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23645	Mrs. Micic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Pelevic, I think it would be rude to speak without mentioning you by name. It's not an attack on you, you've raised certain questions, I want them discussed in the Assembly as a proposing part of the agenda, I insist. Please state publicly here in front of parliament what kind of indication there is that SRJ President Vojislav Kostunica has been tapped. What are the indications? First that. Secondly, how do you think a muddy reputation of VJ is restored by not discussing everything that's happened at all? That reputation is defiled; true, and those who have defiled it should be accountable. But we want to see who they are. There's no need for either of us to defend Pavkovic or Krga. They can defend themselves and take care of themselves. Finally, none of them asked for it. There can be an open question here - why is it said now that this love, which was obvious, has ceased; and - is it moral or not? We have one argument from the general, who says he didn't want to talk about it as chief of staff, because in this capacity he has the instruments to solve this problem within his institution and through communication with the president of the state, not through television. But as a retired general, he no longer has any option. He can go as a regular soldier - Private. Privates in the army are not sent home the way General Pavkovic was sent, whatever he was. Look what they said about him for a year and a half, on October 6th we asked for his shift and a year and a half we did it. But VJ doesn't deserve that kind of behavior, especially what happened yesterday. We found out now that this man, who we stood behind for a year and a half, a criminal, a smuggler, has a house in Kotor, has an apartment in Belgrade. What does that look like? Whether every general and officer in this country who does not agree to the ultimatums of a cabinet or advisor will have such fate: public defamation in the media without a chance to find out the truth. Let the survey committee invite everyone, both Jovasevic and Pavkovic, to see if that is true. If not, then let the VJ send a message - we expect you to die, but we protect you from such ones as those who did, whether they are Nebojsa Pavkovic, Kostunica or his party. We did not defile the face of the VJ, nor questioned the legitimacy of the VJ. The government of the Republic of Serbia has allocated the maximum funds for the military to be financed. We found funds for the Homeland Security Zone. We spared members of the VJ some new conflict. We've gone out of our way to meet every social request of theirs without telling you how much there was at one point the difference between the pensions of military and civilian persons; three, three times. It has never occurred that the DOS parliamentary group, when voting on the budget in the federal assembly, raises the finance for the FJ. That's why we can't be the culprits for the current position that this army is in. We would be guilty if we kept silent, so we continued this -- said Kostunica; said Pavkovic; this story that they were drunk; then it was not true. It's a circus, it's not a state and let that circus close once. The tickets were sold, the ringish was spinning, and finally it was time for things to be brought to their place. That's all it's about. We understand your right not to participate in this, because there are no other representatives of the opposition and you would have a political problem explaining whether you are the DOS and DS attachment or whether you are an authentic party with your own interests. When there are no others from the opposition, it is difficult for you to explain it and it is politically understandable. But we can't agree with your efforts to challenge our right to investigate it, because that's why you can't actually do what you want, which is to protect VJ. The Yugoslav Army will not have a clean cheek until it is determined whether someone tried to abuse it or not; whether it opposed it as the 5th of October. When we get answers to these questions, we'll be able to enter into military reform and say that we have a capable state leadership that knows how to deal with the military, but without it, it's an intolerably low level and we can't participate in it. We need to clear this up. It's not a policy of conflict between one party and the other, because we've brought these people to the places where they are. You can rightly say - excuse me, so you've run for president; or, Kostunica to say - sorry, you've been the bearer of the list in the republican elections and you've given your signature the legitimacy of the Republic government. You're not responsible for this. You were against it back then and today. And it's not just such a small, harmless question, it's much, much more serious, and that's why we want to hear the answer of the state authorities, state institutions, the survey committee. It would be better if there were representatives of the opposition. If not, we will be responsible for the work, finish it, report to the Assembly, and it will be discussed; there will be seen whether or not someone is missed, whether the head is pushed into the sand or not, and whether we were as we claim today that we are.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23646	Here you go, replica. The People's MP Borislav Pelevic has the right to reply. You're misread, is that the basis?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23647	Dear Mr. Jovanovic, you obviously misunderstood me. And you yourself were here today talking about the accusations that the Serbian government's authorities were listening to the president of the SRJ. That's all I said. I can't have any indication of it, because it's too far from me. So I've just repeated what's day and night on all the electronic media and what it's always written about. That's the first one. So you completely misunderstood me. Secondly, you have the right, according to the Rules of Procedure and as a congregation majority, to create an independent, unique, single committee of inquiry. But I repeat, she has no weight without opposition MPs and no legitimacy. That's what this is about. Let me have the right to my own opinion, and believe me, the citizens of Serbia will think the same way when they come out for the next election. [[Sagar.]] So it's about wanting to challenge these two things you said. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23648	Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Are you answering or not? National MP Zarko Obradovic used the right to speak in the first report. Please, although it is not correct, it is not intended for the Rules of Procedure, but here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23649	I don't know who pissed off our president, so she's in a bad mood today. There's no reason for that. Ladies and gentlemen, it is on the agenda to form a survey committee and regardless of the insinuations that were here, I must say, that the SPS supports the formation of polling committees and has been demanding for a year the formation of different survey committees in relation to the various affairs they have been having. Of course, also smuggling tobacco (receives to one of the MPs). From the discussion in the introduction of affairs over the past year, we have heard clearly and we all agree together that this country has shaken more affairs; Serbian citizens are interested in investigating and telling the truth about them. In the introduction here we also heard about the affair Gavrilovic, the affair of Slobodan Milosevic, I mean the arrest of Slobodan Milosevic, taking from CZ, taking pictures by helicopters, and that is also the SPS on several occasions... Hey, kid, slow down, I was listening to you. Go ahead, you can pick up 50 times, so there's no reason to rush. Answer it again. That's what the SPS has repeatedly asked for here -- the formation of a survey board. Here, on 14 August 2001, the SPS requested that facts and circumstances be established concerning the deprivement of freedom, kidnapping and delivery to The Hague tribunal of SPS President Slobodan Milosevic. The survey committee was also proposed and again15. March... Because we're opposition, because it's illegal... [[growls]] 2002. Years, with the same goal and the same request. Meaning: when it is necessary to examine the facts of which the public is interested and when these facts are not in the interest of the ruling majority, then it is not possible to form a committee of inquiry; and when it is necessary to examine the facts, of course, of interest to the public, but only if they are related to the interest of the parliamentary majority, then it can. We agree with that, too. We agree that a survey committee is formed, which is the majority of interested, and we accept that we participate in this survey committee, but provided that it has the authority to shed light on those issues that we have proposed. It doesn't have to be a special survey committee if you don't want to, and obviously, you won't be able to do it for a year, but within the framework of this survey board, that's what you should suggest. So we remembered for the first time last August 14, and the second time on March 15, 2002. That's when the guy who belonged to the SPS signed it, now he belongs to Chad; that's another question. And you asked me well, and for that to be formed a polling committee, to tell the Assembly who violates hereThe Law on the selection of MPs and how the parliamentary majority takes part in the SPS MPs and keeps them in their parliamentary majority. Of course, I agree that a survey committee should be formed for that, too. We're ready to participate in that, too. Go ahead, Shabic can do whatever he wants, but he can't steal the SPS. He can write papers, but he can't steal SPS. Of course, we also think it would be good, when the survey committees are already on the agenda, that all that Ceda Jovanovic said about the affair, that we should put all these affairs on the agenda; and Gavrilovic (you mentioned Gavrilovic), and the persecution, and the listening-to-all to be one or more survey committees. I must also say, when it comes to committees of inquiry; if the government, the ruling majority, really wants the truth about it, so that the committees of inquiry are determined for all the affairs that arise and shake citizens of Serbia, then it is logical to do something that in parliaments in principle happens in 1991, when we formed a polling committee for 9 March; the result of the polling committee on the occasion of 9 March 1991 was to resign from then's police minister - that after the work of the polling committee someone must respond politically. I agree -- legally, it's an organ issue, but it's also political. At the time, the survey committee was not on the proportional system, but the opposition had more participants than it had in proportion to or in principle the number of MPs in the Republic Parliament. I think it's fair, and logical, when it comes to issues like this, and of course the whole public is interested, and that the most interesting political parties within the DOS are that we from the opposition have at least as many members of the polling board as the ruling majority. But well, we didn't insist on it, but on proportional participation, but we think it's logical that this survey committee is joined by the biggest affairs that have happened in this country in the past year; let it work for two months instead, but to come out here in pre-republic parliament with those views. Well, we've been waiting a year, how to get to the polling board, which we asked for a year ago. Therefore, if this amendment is accepted, the SPS amendment, as we have proposed, we will take part in the committee of inquiry; if it is not accepted, why should we participate in the polling committee that only you want; and the committee that the public wills, it cannot even form, let alone begin to function. So I suggest you accept the amendment that we have submitted and that, in this sense, this committee of inquiry can work.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23650	The speaker of the DOS parliamentary group, MP Cedomir Jovanovic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23651	Mrs. Micic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr. Angelkovic, just to explain what amendment we should accept, the one you submitted yesterday or the one you submitted this morning; you should explain it to us, since the 12 hours difference is too small for us to understand now what these amendments are opposed to yesterday. If we accept those from yesterday, they're contradictory of the ones you filed today. So, you have to explain what amendment you're asking us to accept, and then, according to that argument of yours, we'll decide. But given the content of these amendments, it's clear that you don't want to, because they're actually making it impossible for the Commission to work on this. We can talk about another case involving a survey committee dealing with the case of former President Milosevic, but if we work with a survey committee exclusively aimed at performances and all those facts that the president of the state spoke about, or the replacement of our chief of staff, then there are no points with each other.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23652	The word has the People's MP Zoran Angelkovic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23653	Let's get this straight about the amendment - the SPS has submitted one amendment and an amendment in the form of amendments. They're not collapsing; on the contrary, this other one is precision. Amendment 2, and because of the public and because of you, clearly states: "In point 2 of the pre-latest order behind the word "unlawful treatment", the point and the words "infringing the rights and freedom of citizens" are added, and the words "state authorities" are added. "A violation of the rights and freedom of the citizens"; it is also thought of a violation of the right to have someone stolen from prison and then taken away without any decision by the authorities. But if it were not unclear when the polling committee began to work, we decided last night on the party's authorities to specify the amendment, so it is required that the circumstances for the arrest of Slobodan Milosevic be accurately determined. It means that it applies to that, not only to the general formulation of violation of the rights of citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23654	Is anyone else answering for a word from the president, or a representative of the parliamentary groups? No, I don't. ) We continue the debate according to the application for a word in the debate on the proposal for a decision on the education of the survey committee. The first to be declared is MP Zivojin Stjepic, a parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23655	The Honorable Presidency, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Democratic Party of Serbia has held extraordinary press conferences for the 11th day in a row, asking one question to Mr. Kostunica and members of his cabinet -- on the night between June 7th and 8th of last year special units of the Yugoslav Army were ordered to invade the Serbian Government's communications bureau? Translated in Serbian: did the president of the SRJ or one of his cabinet members order a coup? That is the real question, and the citizens of Serbia and Yugoslavia have the right to know the full truth. It is quite clear why until yesterday, representatives of the ruling parties do not want to support the work, neither the formation of the polling committee nor the federal, nor the republican level -- because through their people, who are now members of the SRJ cabinet, are also trying to bring back the wheel of history, to change the Republic government and to practically stop democratic change in this country in any way possible. We cannot expect the former regime's MPs to fight for freedom and democracy, we cannot expect the former regime's MPs and parties to fight for basic democratic principles. They demonstrated it for more than ten years by their rule and their way of ruling. The Democratic Party of Serbia will never ask any of the former regime's parties to participate in the fight for the freedom and democratisation of this society; it will not beg representatives of neither the SRS nor the SPS, nor the JUL, or any other party that supports the former regime in the federal parliament. For those who are uninformed, freedom and democracy has nothing to do with these parties, nor will they ever have; they will never fight for something that should represent freedom, democracy, truth and all that is the basis of every democratic society. As a result, the Democratic Party of Serbia will insist on meeting as soon as possible a survey committee in the Republic Parliament and on its conclusions to submit certain initiatives before state authorities to determine the responsibilities of those people who, by their actions, wanted to abuse the Yugoslav Army for petty party-political interests, which have nothing to do with freedom or democracy. The Democratic Party of Serbia warns all people who care about freedom and democracy that a democratic bloc must be re-made in this country to put the country and citizens in order of normal democratic countries and European societies. The Christian Democratic Party of Serbia has long been warning of the inability to function as federal authorities; the federal government, the federal parliament, any federal institutions. What happened with preventing the formation of a polling committee at the federal level means two things: that the parties that are in favour of the alleged preservation of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia have struck a death blow both to the Soviet government and to the federal state. It must be said here that the parties of the former regime, together with the DSS, are all this time in favour of the division of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and that they do not care about the preservation of Yugoslavia, nor about the preservation of democratic principles, but about the conquest of power so that again, two years after democratic changes, they can continue to rob this people and this country. This is what the political interest and political goal of the parties of the former regime is; you do not care about Slobodan Milosevic, not about the SRJ, not about the Yugoslav Army, but about your personal interests. This is what you defend by disabling the formation of polling committees, the agency to examine your abuses in the previous period and everything you've done, organising crime in this country for more than 50 years, and intensively for the last 10 years of your authority. That's what you've been doing for the last 12 years: robbing this country, robbing this people, in every way possible preventing you from coming to the truth, and that's why you're going to answer...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23656	I ask the MP to return to the subject of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23657	For this reason again, the DHSS requires that an investigative committee be formed at today's session of parliament to determine the truth for Serbia's citizens and to answer one simple question: on the night between June 7th and 8th of last year, President Vojislav Kostunica, along with members of his cabinet, planned to break into the Office for Communications of the Republic of Serbia's Government and thus attempted a coup in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23658	The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj has the word, and after him is the messenger of the people Stanko Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23659	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Vojislav Kostunica, as president of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, has repeatedly violated the Federal Constitution and has long deserved to be replaced. For the first time, Kostunica violated the federal constitution in October 2000, when on behalf of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, he denied our country's international legal continuity, although the constitution specified that the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia maintains continuity with the previous SFRY. That was enough for Vojislav Kostunica's shift. Secondly, Vojislav Kostunica, without the formation of the federal government, appointed Goran Svilanovic as his special emissary, placed him in effect as foreign minister and sent him on diplomatic missions. He unauthorizedly, in breach of the federal constitution, made a decision to ask the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia to join the United Nations as a newly formed state. Vojislav Kostunica swore on the constitution of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, and then worked intensively for months to bring down the constitution in an anti-constitutional manner. He initiated the making of so-called. Constitutional charters and included representatives of foreign forces, even individuals who ordered the bombing of the SRJ, in making the text. That's the facts. Vojislav Kostunica's guilt over the violation of the constitution is much greater than Dobrica Cosic's fault in 1993. However, you did not mind, you supported Vojislav Kostunica in violating the Constitution. For a whole year, perhaps even more, there was a president of the National Assembly, the vice president of Kostunica's party, Dragan Marsican. He stood out, you got rid of him, but only when he got to you when he wouldn't accept your vote from Thessaloniki for one item on the agenda. However, as he persecuted the opposition in the Assembly and the SRS...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23660	I beg the Members of Parliament not to receive the speaker and to observe the terms of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23661	I don't mind, I'm a dialogue between the opposition and the authorities... The power is... And the opposition is more powerful and smarter, therefore...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23662	I ask you not to engage in dialogue with MPs or with the chairman, I am bothered by the violation of the Rules of Procedure of this assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23663	If it bothers you, it's different; don't count the time you've now denied me. Ladies and gentlemen, I have absolutely no reason to defend Vojislav Kostunica. When the Committee of Surveys on Facts and Circumstances related to the murder of Defence Minister Pavel Bulatovic, Kostunica's party actively participated in the work. Her representatives on the committee patted me on the shoulder for courage and discernment in asking questions to various military and police generals, and when there was a session of the Federal Assembly, when it was to be voted on, they voted against the report of the Committee of Auditors. I only published a report of the Committee of Auditors and a stenogram from his sessions; nothing else. So it's not a pamphlet, as Cedomir Jovanovic would say or a party paper: exclusively an excerpt and a stenogram, without adding a single word. I knew, if I didn't publish it in time -- I didn't publish the book, but in the magazine "Serbian Freedom Thought"; it's a magazine for philosophy, social science and political criticism, very respectable, the most respected one now coming out of Serbia -- that there will never be a chance to publish again, that someone will pick up a stenogram quickly and remove it. Who? The mafia that also organised the murder of Pavl Bulatovic and which still has a strong influence; it has never had a greater impact on political life in Serbia or Montenegro. Now it's come to me that you're dealing with Vojislav Kostunica; I'm glad, I love it, you couldn't do anything more joyful for me here than to start a crash campaign for Vojislav Kostunica. Kostunica deserves not only to be torn down, but simply to be cut down to the end by morale, without being left stone to stone, which our people say is to drag him down the dump like a fat rag. He deserves it. And everything you do to him...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23664	People's MP, I warn you of the obligation of correct expression in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23665	But it's a folk proverb, Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23666	Our cultural treasures include collections of songs that cannot be spoken for by the congregation speaker only because they are folk treasure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23667	Yes, but our cultural treasures mean that some participatory folk proverb is also used in the debate in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23668	I warn you this is inappropriate and I ask you to respect the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in your interest.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23669	This is a stylish figure that was very relevant at the moment, and you're only trying as long as possible to swallow me.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23670	You will all this time, which by Article 84. The Rules of Procedure chairing the benefits of warning...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23671	The Rules of Procedure say I'm using myself, not with you together, because that's where the clock is ticking.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23672	Article 84(2), I ask you, MP, to use your spare time and read the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23673	Then why don't you take my word and we'll be done right away? There's no point in what you're doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23674	I have no intention of taking your word. Article 84. Rules of Procedure item 2...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23675	Why are you doing this in my day?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23676	I don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23677	You want to admit this time?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23678	Of course.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23679	Then read.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23680	Article 84(2) The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly speak of the necessary notifications as the obligation of the chairmanship of the National Assembly and of the time when I give you these notices, such as this earlier on about the need for jurisdiction for the assembly speaker, it is not at the expense of your time. I spent 45 seconds in total and that will be added to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23681	More than a minute, but good.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23682	One minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23683	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have no intention of defending Kostunica, I can't wait for you to bring him down. Why? Kostunica has brought you to power and it is his greatest responsibility before the history of the Serbian people and the sooner you bring him down, the conditions will be that you are no longer to be brought to power or to remain in power. I am glad that you are now showing it to the people of Serbia in the opposite light of the one in which it has been shown for years. I remember a time when I was lonely in an attack on Kostunica. I remember a time when it was quite dangerous to say it in public, because of the spontaneous reaction of the people. Now the situation is different, and that's why I'm grateful. The only one among you who had undisputed authority in the people is you who have now broken into a burglary. But what's this about? In this country there are two very powerful levers of power, bare physical forces. It's the army and the police. In your conflicts with each other, it happened that one wing of DOS was controlled by one lever, and another wing of DOS. The military, in that spontaneous division of power and influence, belonged to Kostunica. You've been trying to take it away from him for almost two years. The old African proverb... Can I use an African proverb? There's not a word that's rude in it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23684	Now we'll make a deal. In case you tell me the contents of an old African proverb at 9 minis and 45 seconds until the end of your exposure and allow you to continue to say it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23685	Should I whisper to you? Here, I'll whisper that saying to you. Can I say that? You see how effective censorship is. It's past censorship. That old African proverb says, when elephants beat up, grass gets hurt. Two DOS wings are fighting here, and an army gets hurt. The army doesn't get hurt just because of your conflict. The military is under terrible pressure from the Western forces and NATO pacts. The goal of the Western forces is to get us out of a serious army, because this army has shown its ability in the war and with minimal losses, almost intact, it has come out of the war. It's a very capable army. The politicians have capitulated, the people have fallen; the people are always killed in wars, and where they are defeated, and where they are lost. The Serbs won both in the Balkan and World War I, but the people suffered much more than they do now; but the army needs to be preserved so that the people and the states have a future. The first military conflict was over Pavkovic's successor; the second DOS wing tried to impose Krstic because Krstic wanted Americans. It's a conflict between you two. What happens now in that conflict? There's a periodic cutting of the generals, they're incapacitated, but like every cut, they get hurt and they're capable. You attacked Pavkovic and you were right whenever you attacked him. It wasn't just an argument you used to have. I attacked Pavkovic long before you, when Pavkovic went to JUL's political meetings, so I promised him in the election shift campaign right after the election. I published all those statements where I attacked Pavkovic. You read especially, because you like to read, I know. You can tell by your eyes that you like to read. But Pavkovic, as a man whose morale was never a better side, bowed to Kostunica first, tied to his laps and, of course, by performing the post of Chief of Staff, began to perform the party's tasks as well. That's a fact. When he saw Kostunica treat people who were close to him and loyal to him, when he experienced police General Radet Markovic, Milosevic and many others saw that Kostunica had no gratitude when something was done to him, Pavkovic began looking for another owner. When they threatened from the West to go to The Hague, Pavkovic turned to Djindjic. He saw a different experience here. Milan Milutinovic bowed down on time to Djindjic, and now Djindjic has kept him away from The Hague for at least the rest of his term. Who knows what can happen until September, October or November. That's Pavkovic's motive. He's in a race, he's in a chase changing sides. Pavkovic was replaced in a completely legal way, the same way he was set up. Milosevic neither called the Supreme Defence Council when he appointed him. Who will be Chief of Staff, it's a matter of command, not a decision. What would the Supreme Court of Defense be discussing? Now that Pavkovic's been removed, he remembers everything. It probably adds something; I don't mind, let it be added when it's an interesting story, but Pavkovic can't be a strong asset in the hands of moral people. What didn't Pavkovic say at a time when it was current? What was the first time Kostunica tried to abuse him, what did he not say then? The Honorable Chief of Staff says - it's not by law, I resign and inform the public: I resigned because I could be abused for it and that. Of course, you don't need Pavkovic as honorable and moral, but as useful. Meanwhile, Pavkovic goes intensively to Surcin and hangs with the Surcin clan. He's even taking a public picture for the paper. His ox there, this plague of the flea, what's-his-name, Ljubisha Bhuha, called the Chume, organized the night before the shift. This is what the citizens of Surcin know, and I see now Pavkovic is starting to show up on these horse races, at the track; today we see in some newspaper photo. So, not that he's reorientated, but he's deep down where he shouldn't have. It is not a problem that he has shifted towards the government of Serbia or Djindjic, but has gone too far in that direction, all the way to the Surcin mafia. The one who tends to hang out with the Surinian mobsters means nothing anymore, it's not worth anything. You can convince me that Kostunica has abused the military for party purposes, it is very easy to convince me; however, you cannot convince me that the Serbian Government's communications bureau is clean. Independently from Kostunica in September of last year, it came to light that Kostunica is listening, and I have made it public. Here, I've been being investigated for almost a year and never ends. Today for the tenth time, Dusan Mihajlovic, interior minister, did not come to be heard before an investigative judge and cannot end this investigation, and I cannot wait for the trial. So that conflict between you and Kostunica has led to human casualties. How? I need the investigative authorities to assess. How did Momir Gavrilovic die? How did he get killed? You know the complete captain of his movement that day, and you don't know who the killer is. Afterwards, however, the heads of the UDB of the time were removed, but were never called to account either Goran Petrovic or Zoran Mijatovic. Why? It's a very big and dangerous thing. It is very important that they be clarified, but in an objective and impartial way, not by a congregational revote: that the truth is on the side of one who has a congregational majority. There is no philosopher in the history of philosophy who estimated the truth to be on the side of the majority. That's not true. The greatest truths were born by opposing the minority of the majority, even the people of the individual. And if you wanted this to be really objective and fully investigated, you wouldn't be running away from each of the parliamentary groups having one member on the committee of inquiry. That would be principled, each just one member at a time. No, you're up front, and I'm telling you the SRS' position, since DOS has a huge number of members, that's where you get most of it. That's not how it was before. This was not the case with the survey committee on facts and circumstances related to the murder of Pavel Bulatovic. You say, by the will of the people; this lady says, That is the will of the people. It's not for the board of inquiry. The assembly majority could generally mean the will of the people, but the polling committee does not ask the question. So if the people's will is in this direction, that's true. That's not true, it's not. Here things have to be solved differently. However, there are no social conditions to resolve this. You want the SRS to participate in this committee and start criticising our refusal to participate; Cedomir Jovanovic began his speech by criticising the SRS for our refusal to participate. Yes, it is, but you remember it briefly, and sometimes you remember it briefly from year to year, and now you remember it from minute to second. We will not participate, because you have violated our constitutional and legal right to apply for the removal of the government and your obligation to put that request on the agenda. It's on the agenda, so you took it off. You say we didn't even vote for that government and we don't have the right to initiate her shift. For more than a year, it's getting sour, and we keep adding. Our initiative to replace the interior minister and the minister of education -- that's hundreds of pages of text. It's not going to the agenda at all. Why? Is there something more important? Then what's more important to you, you handle it, you can solve it without the Assembly. The Serbian Government Communications Bureau, a centre for waging a psychological-propaganda war against political opponents. Previously, the victims were opposition parties, first of all the SRS, and now the victim of Kostunica; and he deserved it. Feel a little in the air that it's weakened the pressure on the SRS you've gone after Kostunica. That's why I'm glad, it feels really good. We're still media-blocked, but there's something in common with these other harassments. What was this Communications Bureau doing, and who's all about his work? He's in control of BK TV, Pink TV, "Sunday Telegraph", a clean police voice. You know, how come the photos of Milosevic getting into a helicopter in the Sunday Telegraph? From where? What? Should I ask the board of inquiry? No, I want to ask here. I guess I have at least that right to determine where I'm going to ask. How is that possible? How it is possible for the high-ranking UDB official Zoran Mijatovic to publish his daughter's report, even if he attends the moment Milosevic was taken away. How is that possible? How is it possible for the warden of the prison to publish a diary of his talks with Milosevic's convict and not go to jail for it? Where's more abuse of official position than what the warden of Central Prison did? It can't be bigger. He was changed, but he wasn't punished, he wasn't even fired, he was moved to the Ministry of Justice (from the hall-replaced); he was removed, but not immediately. That's not true. He had to go to jail. I can't imagine a bigger case of violations of human rights, of the Constitution and of the law, of greater abuse of official office. Next, remember what this Communications Bureau launched against the SRS: and that I stole 50 million marks; and gave apartments to lovers; and listed me a whole list of mistresses; then I went from house to house and talked, convinced, when the newspapers had already announced that you were my mistress, now is the time to become, you can no longer change it as a fact in history, so that later at least history is confirmed by this. However, those were weak arguments for persuasion. So, there's something to discuss here. But you didn't imagine what you were saying, that your goal was to find out the truth. You pulled another lever in your own account. That's it. I'm glad that this bill is going on and it's getting harder and harder, but I think it's best for the opposition parties, especially for the SRS, to stick to this principle of non-mixing; because, I'd like to see that your mutual reckoning goes on as long as possible, so that it exhausts both sides. That's what I'm telling you openly, what I've come up with in that regard. It is not my goal to defeat Kostunica quickly, but to give you Kostunica as much resistance as possible and that he also hits you in a counter attack. That's what makes me most happy here. I'm not rooting for either side, and you're both bad in my opinion, with disastrous consequences for Serbia's fate. It's good to spend the most energy in each other's dates. It is obvious, ladies and gentlemen, that many have been written off by Kostunica. It was written off by Western forces, especially Americans. What about the Russians? I don't think the Russians have ever held him before, but the Americans have written him off. What do we see that Kostunica was written off from? From the fact that there is absolutely no protest from the West, no noise, no complaints, no demands, no threats regarding the withdrawal of Kostunica's mandate in the National Assembly. And if Kostunica were still a favorite of the West, you wouldn't dare do what you did, and even if you did within 24 hours you'd correct that mistake, an incredible violation of the law. Kostunica, however, has been written off, has not been told yet, but it is seen on all sides, no one counts in Kostunica anymore. Kostunica fulfilled what NATO's pact expected of him. What's that? He put you in power. Then, he gave up international and legal continuity, gave up our interests in the negotiations on succession, stepped down the federal constitution; now you can do whatever you want; the election campaign approaches, he still thinks he can win the election. Everyone who understands politics knows that there is absolutely no more chance and that by the very day of the election, you will be so declassified, politically destroying, that few will be willing to vote for it. That's clear. That's good for all the honorable, honest, smart Serbian patriots, including me. But what next? This, gentlemen, is a scandal within your coalition. This scandal cannot end without an early parliamentary election. That's what I'm trying to tell you, which hurts you the most. You see, you can now destroy Kostunica morally in the people, you can bring his political authority to nothing, you can force him to resign and withdraw from politics. You can do it now. You have all the media under your control, you can do anything you want to do. Kostunica only ruled BK television for a time, while Tijanic was there, until academic Bogoljub Karic crossed over to the other side. There's nothing there now. We're on our way. You're on your way, and you're gonna make it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23686	I ask the Members of Parliament not to receive the speaker and to honor the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23687	They're free to win, for God's sake.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23688	I can't go free. The Messenger of the people, it is not up to you, but depends on the chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23689	Let me get on with it. I've got ten minutes left. Don't deny me everything I wanted to tell you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23690	You have four minutes and 15 seconds left.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23691	I've got 27 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23692	Nine minutes and 45 seconds before we consulted on your proverb.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23693	Did you start time again? Okay, so I don't get surprised by something. What's your problem? Which Vojislav Kostunica was your banner that you convinced the people of Serbia to vote for you in 2000. He was the bearer of your list in both federal and republican elections. It is morally unbearable for you to politically reject him and remain in this number in both the Republic and the Federal Assembly. When you end up destroying the bearer of your list, you must re-election. Then you have no legitimacy, no legality, nothing then. Anything you say about the bearer of your election list, I agree, I sign it in advance. Here, I'll sign this blank. Ma'am, I agree to sign everything blankly. Whatever you say about Kostunica, I accept everything. But he brought you to power, he's the bearer of your list. (A voice from the O.R.: We brought him in. You may have him, too, but that's another question now. You weren't the bearer of his list. He was the bearer of his list to you. He was the bearer of your list. He couldn't collect the signatures. Maybe he couldn't even collect the signatures. All of this may be true, but he was the bearer of your list. It cannot remain this National Assembly at the time of the political destruction of Kostunica, resigning or replacing it and acting as if nothing had happened. They need a new election, now. Change it immediately and immediately new elections. But they need new elections, they need emergency elections. She lost power that came under Vojislav Kostunica's company, lost both the legality and legitimacy of his loss. That's all you're going to say for him, just confirms what I said about Kostunica in the 2000 election campaign, when I sent a letter to Serbian citizens and explained everything, point by point, why people shouldn't vote for Kostunica. (A voice from the O.R.: You weren't convincing. I printed it in half a million copies, and I wasn’t convincing. The people didn't believe me, but I'm patient, and I know that one day the people will believe me. That day, thanks to you, is approaching. He's getting closer that day. Now you're talking about Kostunica much worse than I was talking about back then.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23694	National MP, 27 minutes and 30 seconds of the parliamentary group and two minutes and 40 seconds for the mutual dialogue of the chairman and you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23695	Is my time over?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23696	No, you just wasted your time talking...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23697	Here, I end up with one sentence. Anything you want to do to Kostunica, do to him as soon as possible, do to him thoroughly, politically destroy him, but know, the only way out of this political crisis is an emergency election. There's no other way out. (The National MP Sinisa Mitrovic is answering for a word. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23698	Formally, he is the promoter of the People's Parliament, Cedomir Jovanovic. According to the Rules of Procedure, the deputy president of the parliamentary group is not scheduled to take over the proposing rights, such as, according to analogy, the deputy minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia cannot address the National Assembly instead of the minister. The only analogy I can apply You are mentioned only by name, without insulting connotations in, I must say, the manner of MP Vojislav Seselj to communicate with the MPs, so you have no right to replicate. [[National MP Srdja Popovic reporting for replica.]] The People's Messenger Stanko Kovacevic has the word, and after him is the Messenger Joca Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23699	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, respected citizens, it is really hard, after discussing the system of "what is Grandma's pleasure, it has occurred to her" to discuss a very serious topic back in serious streams. Our president, in a desire to demonstrate the democratic leadership of the assembly session, unwittingly feeds him that Grandma's dream is even longer, but I don't think he's going to regret it. Ambassador Borislav Pelevic, on his first date for this address book based on replica, essentially told the real truth why we are having this debate today. The affair today is very current, so-called Pavkovic's affair has caused huge damage to the state and political interests of Yugoslavia and Serbia. That is why we need to discuss this affair to bring an end, because the first parliament, the Alliance, failed, failed to get the strength and the political will to do so, so now it must assume on itself the role of this parliament. If we want the citizens of Serbia, Yugoslavia and the world public to show that we are capable of taking policy seriously and that we are seriously concerned about the interests of this country and the interests of the citizens of this country, we must bring this story to an end in the way that our regulations are imposed. For those reasons, I wouldn't regret any of those MP groups that don't want any part of this. A representative of a parliamentary group said -- this is a conflict of two political groups within the DOS, go ahead and clear each other up; and they will sit at the end, thinking they will collect some political points for themselves. Political points cannot be collected by abstinence from discussions on topics of vital importance for the interests of the country, the internal and external interests of this country. It is necessary and important to put an end to this topic, because in the chair of the president of the SRJ there should not be a man who tends to do things, if true, which individuals place on him, as in the chair of the Chief of Staff should not be seated a man who is burdened with things carried out during these discussions. It's our interest, to put an end to that story, and we can only put it in an objective debate and analysis, according to the survey committee we're going to form here. I will remind you, there was an extremely smart MP sitting in our benches here, and his name was Dragan Vuksic, who is now out of this country by state affairs. For months, he pointed out that both in our General Staff and in the Office of the President of the Republic, actions are being carried out that are severely disrupting the prominent armies and these countries. He's been pointing that out for months. Maybe for those reasons, it was easy to agree, he left for a diplomatic representative outside this country. But if we had accepted that topic at that time to end, today we wouldn't be in this situation and the world wouldn't be asking us a question -- well, wait for the people, how do you think we support you, how do you think that those planned billion dollars of investment based on direct investment or on privatisation come into this country, and you run such political games. For these reasons, we had to discuss it much, much earlier, not to say a month after October 5, many things had to be cleared up and today would not be the topic of the agenda of any commission and parliament. We'd like to talk about some other stories today. But if we have already come to this situation, then we must be deeply aware of our responsibilities, that we must bring this situation to an end. The only way is this, as he suggests an act establishing a polling commission, because this parliament and the Republic of Serbia must bring this matter to an end, when it will not be brought by those in charge. But they will not bring it to an end for two reasons: some did not give consent to the formation of a polling commission in the Federal Parliament because they are aware that this work would result in evidence of their responsibility; and others, our coalition partners at the federal level, the SNP gentlemen, from Montenegro, will not participate, as they did not want to create legal grounds for co-operation with The Hague tribunal, because they think they will thus obtain much more political points than they will get if they are involved in the work. Clearly, we had to take over. Understand, we have a great responsibility, and in early September this parliament will have to take a definitive stance on this. Please and I urge you to consider this matter seriously and to bring it to an end in the way our legal acts and our constitution are imposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23700	The word has a folk MP Joca Arsic, followed by Srdja Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23701	Dear Mrs Comic, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, here is this debate on the polling committee, that is, a proposal for the formation of a polling committee, as suggested by a group of DOS MPs, in the image of its President Cedomir Jovanovic, we have already begun the work of the polling committee without having previously resolved the essence: it is that there are different opinions and suggestions here on what this committee needs to deal with. The president of our parliamentary group, Dr Zarko Obradovic, has already made our request to extend the subject of this survey committee's debate on the arrest, kidnapping and extradition of former SRJ and Republika Srpska President Slobodan Milosevic, as well as of the work of the state authorities, as it has been said several times for this pay phone in this room, and elsewhere, that there has been an organized attack in the persecution of the Socialists; in various ways: firing from work; writing criminal charges; mass abuse of the official position, etc. We think that if the current board wants to be true and put an end to everything, even what's going on around so-called. Pavkovic's affair could put an end to what the SPS parliamentary group insisted on several times - to form a polling committee and to examine everything that happened about the arrest, kidnapping and extradition of Slobodan Milosevic. I am one of the participants of the event at the time of the first attempt to deprive Slobodan Milosevic of his freedom and I can tell you, which is partly published by the press, so it came to the public, that there was a harsh application of force, nothing caused, over MPs, my colleagues; you are witnesses that we have come out of here to announce possible events; the state authorities have applied an extremely harsh force towards the MPs. I think that, besides others, it's another topic to talk about -- who, how and in what way he gave the order that these things were going on the way they were going on; there was also a BK TV, which has transmitted a lot of things, but not what I'm talking about; she didn't want to take statements at all, or to record any of them and publish. The desire to put an end to all this has been mentioned here many times, I have nothing against it, but what is determined, which will be published as a full truth after the work of the survey board; finally, about everything the SPS insists on. It is mentioned that President Kostunica is an institution, that this is not about the personality of Vojislav Kostunica, who is also the president of the DSS, one of the DOS parties, that this is about the institution's injury. It was only forgotten that such an institution existed before Kostunica, that, according to that institution, behaviour was inadequate and that there were millions of voters and people's will behind it. People's will is only mentioned when it comes to DOS. The people's proverb says everyone scratches where it it itches. The DOS itches this conflict within it and wants it to be published, shown and shown through this survey board in light of how the party sees it. I don't think there's any jurisdiction here, she can talk about it, because it's the Serbian government. I do not dispute this right for each parliamentary group to have its own representative, but I ask you not to challenge the right of the SPS to have its own requirements, its amendments to the proposed solutions when it comes to the number of members of the committee of inquiry, as well as what it will deal with; and it is necessary to answer all these questions, heresy, for a year and a half, no answer is given, but it is all under the rug. For these reasons, I think that only after the adoption of these amendments will the parliamentary group take part in this polling committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23702	The word has a People's MP, Srda Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23703	Dear Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the promoter - head of the DOS parliamentary group, Mr Cedomir Jovanovic told you something about the reasons, ways and goals for which this survey committee is being formed. I will try to say something about what is very interesting as an institution and all the democratic public, which is the truth, the responsibility and the consequences of the formation of a survey board. First about the truth - we are October 5th, to say only, since that period lasted long, came out of a period where truth was not much appreciated. We lived in the virtual reality of the second diary, in which Serbia did not bend, in which sanctions made us stronger, in which we defeated NATO. One day that virtual truth was in collegiate with that right; and then it happened on October 5th. It is true that some issues have been raised in parliament and the public since 5 October, to which neither the citizens of Serbia nor the parliaments competent as institutions, have been answered. Some of them were mentioned by my predecessors: the murder of Bulatovic, the Perisic affair, some of the other much more petty things that have been told here (Balkan birds, zebras in Serbian rulers, cookies in the Assembly). All of this has been debated very much here, but it seems to me that there was no political will for these stories to be discussed in one place and that people, mentioned in various ways for this speaker, are called to parliament, rather than, from a safe distance that this speaker and parliamentary immunity provide, are just spit and speak in absentia. The truth is, ladies and gentlemen, that the appointed Chief of Staff has still accused several generals of planning to invade the government of the Republic of Serbia on a June night last year. It is true that the president of the SRJ, instead of responding, offered the indictment and said - the government of the Republic of Serbia is listening to me. The Office for Communications of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the institution selected by this assembly, is listening to the cabinet of the president of the SRJ; it is a violation of the Constitution. It is true that the Prime Minister, under full criminal and material responsibility, said that this was not true and that all the actors I mentioned agreed to testify before the committee of inquiry in the Federal Assembly. The truth, however, is that the DOS initiative that the polling committee in the Federal Assembly was formed has failed because they were not representatives of the party of the president of the SRJ. And what's going to happen: since we started here today with folk proverbs, "eat a donkey wolf"; in this story with that title, did someone outsource political damage, benefit, decide to "pull it under the carpet" and say -- that harms the ruling coalition, don't argue now, let's talk about more important things? This leads us, apart from the truth, to other things that we expect the public of this country and the citizens who elected us, regardless of the parties, which is the responsibility of the people who represent certain institutions here mentioned: the president of the SRJ; not because of the character and the work, but because of the function he performs, he is a state institution; not because of the character and the work, but because of the fact that over two million people voted for him, that hundreds of thousands of people risked their lives in conflict with the non-democratic regime that he would indeed be the president of the SRJ; not because of the general staff; not that Milosevic's general whose shift DOS has asked for the 5 October, but the first man of the institution -- the most armed formations in the country; for him here today we heard that he was, so that he was not in Surcino, that he was stuck; but who would ask him? Gentlemen, when we form a survey board, you will have the opportunity to ask some of these questions to the actors of that story. The president of the Serbian government, who has been openly accused of violating the Constitution and listening to the federal president; there are several proposals here in the procedure to be removed; but does anyone have the courage to ask him in front of journalists and fellow MPs, whether he was listening, whether the other charges mentioned here are true? And what about the other faces, the counselors, that no one has chosen, can anyone ask them anything other than the press? What about the people at the Bureau of Government? Ladies and gentlemen, people from the Republic of Serbia's Bureau have been accused of listening. On the 178th side of my police record, which is mainly made by listening, I can support a government that listens to political opponents -- no. In the end, truth and responsibility lead us to the consequences. The first consequence of the formation of this survey board is that some will participate and some will not. But the behaviour of these others is too silent to agree with the schizophrenic situation: it is the most important thing about who released the affair; what does the newspaper say about you today; there is no responsibility for the abuses of state institutions if they exist; state officials are not responsible to parliament and do not appear to answer the questions of people elected to that parliament. Another logical consequence is that some of the actors will likely appear before the survey board. I think everyone should show up. Some will not, but they will, as well as their disagreement in the Federal Assembly, answer more practically the question the public is asking, but that they really said something about him. The third thing -- it's going to be the result of public-functioning carriers. One of my predecessors mentioned here that it is important who has the majority; it does not matter who has the majority on the survey board, but that the committee's work is public. The survey committee does not vote on the report, adopted by the Assembly. So you haven't read the proposal. The fourth thing is to stop listening stories. Citizens are justifiably concerned that someone is listening to them, provided that the highest state officials claim that they have been tapped as well. The fifth thing is to start a serious story about the civilian control of some services. One of the DOS' clear programmes was civilian military control, partially implemented by federal law, as well as security services at the republican level. There is a debate on the law on the security-intelligence agency, which needs civilian control. Civilian control; this does not mean that civilians control armed formations, whether it is the military or the police, but that it is the institutions of civil society, of which it is of course the most important parliament. And the last thing - the ultimate control of institutions by individuals; the way: publicly, transparently; that means that no one is above Parliament, that no one is above the law and that anyone can be called to responsibility in the competent institutions. Ladies and gentlemen, if you are to the truth, if you are responsible men and if you are willing to accept together these consequences, you will vote for the formation of a committee of inquiry to investigate this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23704	The word has the People's MP Rada Bajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23705	Dear Madam Chairman, honourable MPs, the last affair that shakes Serbia must surely deserve to be discussed, as well as the polling committee. Because it has shaken up enough political scene for Serbia, but it has also upset the citizens. So it is also a series of affairs, difficult and I would say embarrassing events, shaken the political scene and the public of Serbia over the past year and a half, and if you hadn't gotten the strength or didn't want to hear the proposals that put this on the agenda through polling committees or agendas. Can there be worse violations of all human and divine laws than events that took place on April 30 and 31 and on June 28 last year? We, as well as the public of Serbia, are also very interested in knowing - who are the people who31. March, in civilian suits, with socks on their heads, with shock bombs, past all human laws and breaking all regulations and the Constitution, human and God's laws, come and arrest the former president, so on June 28th, on the greatest Serbian holiday, which is even worse, they deliver to The Hague. Why didn't you accept then that we knew who it was, who it was and who wasn't informed? However, when there was a conflict between you, when the DSS fell out of the game you were leading, when you had to take over power, one over the military, the other over the police, when Pavkovic -- who has every honour of what he did in the war and as a general, but simply not for political crackdowns, is not for politics -- came out now with another way of thinking, then you care to determine the truth. Why didn't you find out the truth when we were looking for her? Which you did not establish the truth, when we asked, who is digging up Serbia and the real Serb genocide people. Where'd you get those coolers in the lake at Koka's boat, from where the freezer came from, so you were all residents...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23706	People's MP, I remind you of the obligation to tell the truth to the speaker and not to turn your personal attitude into a fact or attempt.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23707	... We asked for the public work of those ministers, you didn't want to. It's just that what doesn't suit you doesn't work, and then you say the opposition should participate in the polling committee. Yes, you should, but you should also participate when the opposition asks for something to be put on the agenda; then democracy is and then we are equal. It is that you care today to determine the truth, we care too; we would never deny our participation in the committee of inquiry, in a proportionate way, because even though you have a majority there and here and here, you will suffer to determine everything in the right way, but you certainly care about the opposition representatives, who will collectively influence your decisions. Why didn't you do the same thing when we asked? We've been asking for years to put on the agenda a proposal to replace individual ministers and you've simply been deaf about it. Only when he comes in that you need that minister's shift, will you put it on the agenda. That's what you and Mirko will discuss. Therefore, the moment you meet our demands, be sure that the SPS MPs, or its representatives, will work on the committee of inquiry. I think my next colleague will say, don't be angry when he won't and don't ask the opposition party MPs to participate in the work. The moment you democratically perform, when you try to overcome that political charge towards opposition parties and put everything we ask for on the agenda, be sure that we will fight back equally honorably and in a perfectly correct way we will participate in the work to find out the truth. Because this people of Serbia deserve the truth, but the truth about every event and the truth about every question that comes here, not just the truth when it's in your interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23708	The word is by MP Vladan Radovanovic, followed by MP Bora Drakulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23709	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, listening to this little earlier discussion, I came to the idea that I should start with my people -- what is white in the green mountain, that fairies, that they are swans. The fairies are not, no way, swans are not, guaranteed. The polling commission is being formed to determine whether President Kostunica was being tapped or whether he abused the official position of the head of state and the top commanding armed forces, thereby jeopardising the vital interests of Serbian citizens, instrumentalising the Yugoslav Army's armed forces. The commission should also determine whether President Kostunica has ordered a raid on the government of the Republic of Serbia as head of state and commander-in-chief or has done so as party president. It would not be bad for the polling commission to determine whether President Kostunica is at all making a difference between these two functions or at the same time performing both. The polling committee, or the Serbian parliament, should record this whole story, because it, at least until now, is damaging the international credibility of Serbia and Yugoslavia, but above all Serbia; the only benefits of all of this, as it has so far, have tabloids, newspapers, televisions, which have increased their circulation by such political exhibitionism. I just saw today's paper. They say:The agency with the powers of the MUP - one title; the second title - Pavkovic denied the DSS charges; the third title - Generals prone to major crime; the fourth title - Nalic challenged claims about the abuse of the Yugoslav Army; the fifth title - The Legal Initiative of DOS for the replacement of General Tomic. Just one newspaper on one side. Let us remember further all attempts by the Lord of the Office of Presidents of Yugoslavia, Nalic and Tijanic to draw attention from this topic to someone else, provoking a new scandal with the journalist list "Today", Mrs. Odalovic; then the latest stories about how these and those are threatened with liquidation. This was usually the main topic at the French Embassy, and that was how all the diplomats working in this country dealt with it. Do we want to continue to imitate some Latin American state where the presidents, together with the generals, enter parliament, arrests of the president of the assembly, suspend parliamentaryism; whether we want to or hope that "MGM" or "United" will make a film on the subject, and will break all the records in the ratings, and then we will authorise one part, secure some of the profits and on the secret's economic stability of this country, or we will form a polling commission, examine all the participants in these events based on evidence and establish a factual state. I don't understand why the DSS doesn't answer any more calls, and it doesn't want it to have participants in this commission, why, together with the SRS and the SPS, it is obstructing the polling commission, which is due to wash the cheeks of democratic Serbia, saying that the Serbian parliament is not in charge. Please remind us once again that the president of Yugoslavia has just been elected to this post by the votes of Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23710	The word has the People's MP Bora Drakulovic, followed by MP Milos Lukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23711	Fellow MPs, I'm sure (I belong to the SPS, this hard wing you can't break, i.e. I will tell you what I said, if the problem is Milosevic), that we would always support every polling committee for the sake of the truth, that the citizens of Serbia know it. But how? Is it just now that he's suddenly answering you for something? I am a witness, still alive, from June 28th, when you kidnapped President Milosevic, in addition to all the guarantees signed by Serbia-Yugoslavija's biggest factors, means Kostunica, Djindjic and Milutinovic, that there is no The Hague. That document exists, it has to see the light of day. Then how do you believe, after a year and more, now that you're so hurt by this event; by the way, I think it's very small compared to what you've done. I don't care about your quarrels. I don't care about your eyes. It doesn't bother me at all, but it's something else.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23712	People's MP, I warn you of the courtesy of the language used in the congregation pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23713	Try it, brother, in the election, so let's see how popular you are, how powerful, how valuable you are; you know how easy you're going to measure yourself, you're going to have those little vans. I repeat, if you accept the polling committee, this same one that you are proposing now, but that the Milosevic case, which you have done the greatest shame to the Serbian people, then the Socialist Party of Serbia will certainly participate in it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23714	People's MP Boro Draculovic, you are warned of the kind of language that can be used for this assembly payphone as you perform your speech. The level of tolerance that implies this debate and which tolerates the speeches of previous speakers, since the constitution of a committee of inquiry on this subject really implies freedom of speech, nevertheless there are limits and if you intend to apologize to the National Assembly for the way I perform for the assembly speaker, I will give up my obligation to give you a reminder. If you have no intention of apologizing to the National Assembly, then we will follow the Rules of Procedure. Will you apologize to the National Assembly for the content of your speech during the debate? I give my first warning to MP Borivo Draculovic. The People's Messenger Milos Lukic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people, Hranislav Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23715	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, is ahead of us with a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling, etc., this title would certainly take away the first minute of speech, and the essence is that this should be called a polling commission that should resolve the conflict between the two leaders, Zoran Djindjic and Vojislav Kostunica. This country needs two things: undisputed reforms in economy, agriculture, health, education, culture, etc. and patriotism. This has been seen because it is obvious that Serbs do not want to give up patriotism and their name. We are witnessing how in front of the public manipulation of these two concepts and how public opinion is directed to one side, hour to the other. It appears to be an insurmountable conflict between Zoran Djindjic and Vojislav Kostunica. In our opinion, however, this is a deliberate and synchronised action, which should result in the elimination of all other political forces and the grouping of total political power in two centres, which are attached to the two leaders. It is likely that behind all this is some powerful international agency for the examination and formation of the political will of citizens, as previously said, and it is obvious that this is done very seriously and very perfiduously. Another question arises: what about the country's international reputation, what about foreign investment, or those people who are interested in investing their capital in our country. If we put ourselves in their position for a moment, we will conclude for sure that they have no motivation and that in this way this country seems very insecure and unstable for any foreign investment; and we must be aware that without these foreign investments, without foreign capital, this country will hardly go a better path. SRJ President Vojislav Kostunica apparently exaggerated when he turned his attention to the Yugoslav Army, forgetting that the army was an institution that had not been compromised so far; the Serbian people have traditionally respected and trusted it regardless of all difficulties, especially those economic ones, and those armies are currently shaking. We must remind ourselves that the army is not only officers, but our children are currently in uniform and that it is necessary to see it that way. Instead of wondering why the army literally skips our meals and why the level of equipment is extremely low, we are dealing with whether Djindjic is listening to Kostunica, who is using him, who is in command, etc. It's high time to break this practice. For the first time today, from this speaker from the DOS Parliament camp, it was said that this assembly should play a more important role in political life, and that is what we have been insisting on since the constitution itself. It is obvious that in this conflict everything is pre-named and that it is so media-packed that it has been keeping citizens' attention for days. Of course, this attention is held in order to forget economic problems, job layoff problems, then a growing number of company bankruptcys, electricity collection, TV subscription, total drop in citizens' standards, etc. If we go back to the past, it is obvious that these kinds of affairs rock the Serbian public at certain regular intervals, that they always appear when it comes to the standard of citizens and when other regulations behind this media campaign are being pushed. We must also note that the generals are usually involved in these affairs, because Vuk Obradović, Perišić and now Pavkovic are suitable individuals for newspaper articles and such writing, so that they are very skilled and perfiduously kept public attention on these topics. The Soviet Parliament Group believes that, for all the reasons that have been presented so far, it does not want to participate in the work of this polling committee, but we sincerely hope that this is the last affair and that this assembly and our public will no longer be shaken by the affairs, but we will turn to work and do our work, both in the Assembly and our citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23716	The People's Messenger, Franislav Peric, has the word. After him, the Messenger Bojan Pajtic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23717	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I am on the subject, please have the same criteria when you impose penalties on the Socialist Party MPs. We weren't even working here on duty just to give a sentence. There's a feeling that you're leading a good assembly and I'm asking you not to spoil it any further.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23718	In accordance with Article 84(2), I would like to inform the MP that errors in the conduct of the Assembly have the obligation to warn the president of the parliamentary group or the authorised representative of the parliamentary group having the objection as a violation of the Rules of Procedure, unless it is provisions which are discretionary powers of the chair of the National Assembly. So what you used at the beginning of your speech would also be a violation of the Rules of Procedure. The criteria I have, I have the same for all the MPs and I inform the MPs that it is in his interest not to use hate speech, to respect the Rules of Procedure, and I ask you to. You have one minute longer, as far as your parliamentary group is concerned, for the intervention of the chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23719	It's on the agenda to form a polling committee to investigate abuses: who wanted to organise an incursion into the government, who was listening to whom; there's probably plenty of it, so that the commission would take as much time as you've spent since you came to power. We of the Socialist Party have no intention of interfering in the debate that you have produced within the DOS. You've been doing all this, and then you can tell me who's been doing all this abuse. You can see that it's not going well and that your citizens resent you for doing this. Basically, we're going to stand up, we've always done so, to determine the truth. On several occasions, we addressed the Assembly and proposed survey committees on many topics: establishing a survey committee on Kosovo, what is happening there and who is working for whom; establishing a survey committee on cigarette smuggling; (What is this like? ) to establish a survey committee to investigate the illegal arrest of Slobodan Milosevic; (Can you shout harder? When a political debate is being held, culture should be held. ) that a survey committee is formed to investigate all the political murders that have occurred since you were in power; the Perisic affair; there is probably a lot of why survey committees should be set up, and that is your business. You are in power, you are the majority in this House, you can charge everything, you can condemn whoever you want, you can send to The Hague whoever you want, to take office in the Assembly, to the mandates of a political group. You in the Assembly can vote by your majority that today is Sunday, even though it is Tuesday. That's what you do all the time. It's going to pass for you for a while, and maybe for a while, but it can't last forever; whether you want it or not, this will all come out in the open one day, and everyone will come to justice, and we deeply believe in it. You've been in power for two years, and you're still working on us. Your mandate will come out, and you're still working on us. Instead of realising the promises you made to the citizens of Serbia; for example, that you will reduce crime in Serbia. How will you reduce crime in Serbia when the government commits crime to you: it listens to the president; (If the government listens to the president, what is it? You said that when you formed the survey board. ) when President Kostunica commits crime and orders the military to take over the government; it is all a crime within the DOS; when the Deputy Prime Minister gives away state secrets. What the rest of us do when the top state executives do it. Mr. Ceda Jovanovic is here to give political and rallying speeches, and that no longer passes with citizens, it is clear to everyone what is happening today in the country. At the very end, we will participate in the commission's work if you accept the SPS amendment submitted by fellow MPs Rajko Baralic and Branko Ruzic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23720	The word has been given by MP Bojan Pajtic, followed by MP Dragan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23721	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I will only touch a few legal and political issues raised here, with no general seats, which are pretty much absorbed. The question of the power of the Republic of Parliament to act in this case has been asked. The competencies of the Republic Assembly do not stem from the fact that the Republic of Serbia has exclusively financed the Federation's bodies for more than 10 years and has been financed by the SRJ cabinet, and spends more than half of the funds compared to the Republic government, which contains 19 ministries, six vice-presidents and one prime minister. So a man's office costs as much as 25 cabinets. It does not come from the fact that the Republic Government, which is practically the executive body of this highest parliamentary representative and legislative body in the Republic of Serbia, was threatened by this case. Our jurisdiction stems from Article 135. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, where it is clearly and decadently stated that the authorities of the Republic of Serbia are obliged to protect the interests of the Republic of Serbia in the event that they are threatened by the behaviour or acts of the Federation body. So the formation of such a commission is not our political right, but our constitutional obligation. The second raised and unexplained issue concerns the composition of the polling commission, where opposition parties refused to participate in the polling commission. When half of the general staff claim that Serbia was on the verge of military intervention, there is a reasonable doubt that the school's definition in the legal theory is one body whose work has been legally defined, taken or intended to take measures that are not in any way based on the law, in order to change the country's legal and political relations with such measures. That, ladies and gentlemen, is the definition of a coup, combined with a military coup that was intended and planned in this case. Once in the offices of the Serbian Government's Communications Bureau, he knows that there are children in that bureau, the average age is below 25 and he knows, if he has any analytical spirit, that the consequences of such intervention could not have been different but only a bloody epilogue, executed by all the institutions of the system, both at the level of the Republic and at the level of the federal state. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, the relationship to this issue is nothing more than a relationship to the rule of law and civilian control of the military. When the democratic order is threatened, when the legal order is threatened, when silence is not a political stance, then silence is a political capitulation. The Commission is created to resolve certain dilemmas that have arisen in this case. Neither legal theory nor political practice know such situations, and that is why they were created. Legal theory does not know or define as the illegal replica we have on the federal level, a replica of the cabinets of the presidential system, when it represents the government, the executive body. This is illegal and giving state authority to a private authority, an informal power centre, is nothing more than abuse of official powers. In that sense, we don't need a survey committee to determine that. It's obvious in itself. This represents practically the privatisation of the state. Political practice knows similar incidents. It happened in the countries of Latin America in the '60s, when we saw the whole wave of attempts and coups carried out by state and military, so political practice knows these kinds of non-institutional, immovable organs and power centers; it was the same in the 1960s in China, through the functioning of an institution called the so-called. Four-member gangs. Fortunately, our generals were aware far above Colombian generals and the cabinet itself was unable to implement a cultural revolution. In political history, there is another listening affair in the United States, when the only successful process of President Nixon's impeachment was carried out. However, the difference in this case is that it was a real listening factor and that no one had ever fallen on the coast to use the military; and if the military had tried or been used, the result would not only have been a shift, but the consequences of Nixon and his administration would have been far more far-reaching, and would certainly have entered the scope of criminal responsibility. The committee of inquiry, ladies and gentlemen of the national parliaments, will not remand the president of the federal state, nor will it remand his cabinet; it will not take over the powers of the Federal Assembly. It is absolutely certain that the obligation of this parliament to protect legal institutions, system institutions in the Republic of Serbia. We won't take any more authority than the Republic Constitution does. We can swear to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that we will use all legal and political means to protect their interests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23722	The word is made by MP Dragan Markovic. He's not there. The word has a National MP, Petar Petrovic. I would ask the MPs to believe that the chairman knows the Rules of Procedure and that it is a shift of a few minutes, and that the break is one hour. We used to at 1400 hours, and we wouldn't mind it being at 14.05 or 14.10. Here you go, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23723	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, we of the Soviet Union expected the break today to be from 14.00 a.m., as every day, but since the chairman decided otherwise, allow me to refer with a few sentences to the proposal for a decision to form a survey committee for questioning so-called. affairs of Pavkovic. As you have heard from previous speakers from the ranks of the SSJ Parliament Club, for known reasons, in order not to take up time, we will not participate in the work of this survey committee. I'd say there are procedural problems to even form this survey committee. As for the appeal to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 135(2), I would not take the time to read it, let those who are not lawyers read it, it is clear to the lawyers that calling on this member and this position cannot be taken as the basis for the establishment of this survey committee. This seems to be a desire that, at the moment of the second half of July, this conflict of interest between the two ruling parties within the DOS should be exposed to the public of Serbia, for Serbian citizens to forget the ongoing problems they are facing at the moment. They're very big. The fall of standards is obvious, the people are getting worse. On the other hand, production cuts. Your media also announced that the decline in production in Serbia, compared to the same period last year, is about 1.2%. Salaries are getting less and more messy are getting paid. Pensioners are getting harder alive. The polling commission is scheduled to complete the job by the end of August. After that, we should again be dealing with the survey committee's report, and you know that Serbian citizens should at that time think about getting heating, books and learning for students and students, that they should prepare a winter service, etc. The problems of Serbian citizens should be pushed into another plan, so as not to think about whether they have money in their pocket, whether they will lose their jobs, etc. To finish with only one sentence; this conflict between the Democratic Party and the Democratic Party of Serbia reminds me of two young people who have had fun for ten years, held hands, loved and kissed each step, and when they have concluded marriage, they divorce after a month.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23724	The word has been given by MP Dragan Markovic, as the last registered speaker. The time available for the Soviet Parliament's group is 7.30 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23725	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Soviet Union first accepted that it had members in the survey committee; later we gave up because no opposition party had members in the commission. We think it may be a good thing that the citizens of Serbia will know the real truth. Looking at what General Pavkovic was saying these days, I may be able to believe that story is true, but on the other hand, the question is why General Pavkovic did not say that when it happened. The SJJ believes that this assembly has more than one thing, but this may be the first thing created, given that the whole world is watching two of the biggest parties and their presidents argue: on the one hand SRJ and DSS Vojislav Kostunica, and on the other hand, Prime Minister and DS Zoran Djindjic. The question arises who will come to Serbia more, bring some money and invest in the economy. But there are some coming in who buy some plasmas along the highways for gas stations, take foreign exchanges, use transit traffic through Yugoslavia and carry money to the country where these entrepreneurs are from. No small and medium-sized enterprises are made of these pairs, and I don't think they'll be further built. Also, in my opinion, the greatest responsibility for all that has happened in Serbia has a list holder, the one who said - who can only look you in the eye, Vojislav Kostunica. Cedomir Jovanovic says they were in love with DSS, DOS and DSS. Yes, you were in love, but you gave birth to children. These kids are your voters, who are out of work today and out of jobs. The biggest responsibility always has a dad, and Dad is Vojislav Kostunica. Maybe he would convince me if that wasn't true... Don't keep throwing, because you don't talk, you don't think with your own head, you just know how to push a button. Since you've almost become an MP, it takes some time and you have the right to throw.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23726	People's messenger, I ask you not to communicate with the messengers without the MPs receiving and respecting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23727	The SJJ may not believe that the president of the DSS is doing what is said in public, but until today, the SRJ president and his party have not applied for the agenda in the Serbian Parliament to be the trust of the Serbian government, or the shift of the Serbian government. It means they have a great responsibility and that they may have some work to be published in the meantime, and to the harm of the DSS. Also, I need to get to know our public that, when the DSS MPs were present at the sessions, they went out for this pay phone and criticised all the laws, just to collect cheap political points, and then voted in favour of these proposed laws. But most of all, I resent the MPs from Kosovo and Metohija; they, both DOS and DSS, come out here and criticise what the government is doing when it comes to Serbs from Cosmeta, and then vote for the DOS proposal. I'm taking the opportunity to criticize the One sitting here. The Cosmet Committee has been formed, and to this day the committee has not met, because there are major problems with Serbs from Cosmeta. Also, ladies and gentlemen, we of the Soviet Union felt that a survey committee for agricultural producers should be established, to examine what the Minister of Agriculture is doing and why the price of cereals is the same as it was in 2001. If inflation is 40%, then the price should be 9.80, not seven dinars. The biggest problem for Serbian citizens is (you sitting here may or may not, since we have good salaries in this assembly, fat wages; for our term, we have increased our salary twice; the SSP MPs give their salaries to Serbs from Cosmeta and for the Third Child Fund), because when they wake up in the morning, they know their country's name, whether they've been sold to the factory... Now I mark, as Cedomir Jovanovic looks at the chairman, so he says, cut a little bit, cut - so I move, so he doesn't see the chairman. ... They don't know if they should go to work or go out on the street, whether their company is strikein'. That's the problem. Cedomir Jovanovic is a good conductor, but he does not understand music. That's the problem, it's got the wrong rhythm. Ladies and gentlemen, the Soviet Union thinks the only institution that hasn't been bullied is the Yugoslav Army. You've been able to do that these days. We want to know as soon as possible what's true and if there's any truth at all. Mr. Pavkovic's argument does not allow me to suspect the character, because he had a military oath and was one of the first people on Cosmet during the war and we know what his role was. The survey committee should examine the other side. Is it true that the president of the state gave such a warrant that, at the moment we had to cooperate with the whole world, a military coup was carried out. That, in my opinion, is a military coup. The only thing to save this country right now is to help pensioners whose pensions are very small, educational and health care workers, where wages are also very low. Hospital conditions are catastrophic. Serbs from Cosmeta should be helped to discuss new elections, ladies and gentlemen. Yeah, citizens... Yeah, let's go. [[growls]] We'll come, because that's what the survey we're making says, not the one you ordered. Sometimes it goes out to individual agencies that the party is in perspective, which has the highest popularity, the Party of Serbian Unity; then the owners of these agencies are called and told to them - don't ever do that again, etc. But we're doing our own survey. If the survey is correct, the way you show it, why don't you call the election? What are you afraid of? Go to the elections and tell the citizens of Serbia -- you voted last time, so Kostunica got in the way; but when you vote twice -- which we'll be a good government, which we'll be good DOS; and of course, the citizens will accept it, and the most pensioners you give advice to -- if you don't have for electricity, you gentlemen sell your apartments and pay. Is that advice? Well, you give them advice that it's very good and it's a big civic obligation if you pay for a TV subscription. And when you said otherwise in the election camp, as a member of the Committee on Culture and Information, I asked the question - who will finance RTS. If there is no one to fund it, then they will have a problem listening to what the Serbian citizens say. To those of you who keep talking- time, time, in the middle row, since you haven't done anything in your life...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23728	MP, eight minutes and thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23729	I'll take an hour for you, since I have 15 minutes and you don't get it, I'll take an hour to tell you some things about life; about everything. And, what other question is being asked, ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23730	People's MP, that hour you're going to spend communicating with your colleagues can't get in at the time of the Soviet Parliament group. That time is spent.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23731	Do I have more time?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23732	No, you overstepped one minute. National MP Momcilo Trajkovic, a replica to the presentation of MP Dragan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23733	I always thought Mr. Markovic was well-intentioned. However, his statement today cannot be accepted as well-intentioned. Most likely, he didn't inform himself. It seems to me that he was a little off while the board sessions were held. I'm surprised the members of his assembly club didn't inform him that two board sessions were held. One was constitutional, 10 days ago, and last week was held a session of the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija and the Health Committee, where we discussed health issues. As chairman of the Assembly Committee, I sent a letter to Mr Covic, president of the Coordination Centre, on the basis of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Assembly, to provide us with information on the situation in Kosovo and Metohija, which we will consider as a committee, and I also sent a letter to Minister of Education, Mr Gaš Knezevic, to put that issue on the agenda. Therefore, you know well what the role of the board is, that it cannot do anything outside of the Rules of Procedure and that it will have many questions to consider with other committees, but it is certain that the subject of Kosovo and Metohija will be found more often on the agenda than before, and I hope that we will be able to find answers to all these questions together. I had to say this for the best, because the board that was formed a week ago can't be immediately criticised because it doesn't work, and it doesn't work on its own. It's not a government. It's a congregation committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23734	The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, who proposes the decision.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23735	Mrs. Komic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, at the end of the debate on this agenda point, I just want to introduce you to me that I have accepted the amendments proposed by the Soviet Union, and that as a proposal for the formation of the survey committee, I have proposed amendments that are being made towards the agreement reached at tonight's meeting of the heads of Parliament's groups. Therefore, MP groups who today feel that they do not belong to the survey committee, in line with the amendment I have submitted, will be able to join the commission at any time, without any conditions, to join in the work of the survey committee. In the meantime, there may be new reasons for their engagement. I would like to introduce you to our intention to fully meet you and at any point allow you to join the work of the committee of inquiry, by not conditioning your behaviour in the secretive commission, except by respecting the Rules of Procedure which will be established and which will be equal to all. As for the criticisms that have been presented and the initiatives that have been launched here today, I have not noticed that someone has challenged the reasons for forming a survey committee, with some views that are unacceptable to us as promoters, first of all because we think they are moving us away from the final solution. The arrest and extradition of Slobodan Milosevic to The Hague tribunal are topics that have their own court epilogue in the process conducted and its political epilogue through the adoption of the Co-operation Act with The Hague tribunal. At this point, the Commission is not acceptable to us because it would practically do what journalists and politicians have done in their positions. Opening up questions -- who were people in a civilian outside the former president's residence -- that's completely pointless, at least for the committee of inquiry; you even have members of the parliamentary group who were there that night, so you can get an answer from them. However, as regards other types of objections, the status of the parliamentary group, the application of the Rules of Procedure, the respect of some of the requirements that were made a year and a half ago, that would also be unacceptable for us. It's turning back. Even if we agreed to such a thing, to do so, we couldn't change the Rules of Procedure and go out to meet a party's request, which would be more than privileged. So, we cannot accept those initiatives launched here, which are about extending the competence and expanding the topic covered by the Commission's work, but we are not giving up on the amendments submitted, and at any time as representatives of the opposition, you can participate in the work of the survey committee, with the members you appoint, to attend the sessions because they will be public, so that you can contribute to the better work of that commission through criticism or suggestions. I expect to meet you here in Parliament in 30 working days. Then we will discuss the survey committee's report, and it will be a real opportunity to test DOS MPs and citizens who have given us confidence, because that report will show whether we were objective, whether there were any taboo topics and whether we actually wanted to do with this what we were doing here occasionally, that our alleged intention is to solve the whole problem through the DSS and DOS conflict. This is an institutional problem for us and we will solve it in institutions.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23736	Thank you. I would like to remind you that the amendments adopted by the draft act become an integral part of the proposal for a decision, so that the decision you received during the voting day will be such that the MPs' groups of DSS and the SRS will be able to appoint members in the course of the survey committee's work. These are amendments that have become an integral part of the proposal for a decision. This concludes a unique search. Anyone else want a word? Nobody. ( b) Does the word want the decision-makers? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a unique search. After we have completed a single search, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the amendments submitted and the proposal for a decision in general, with the decision being amended by the amendments proposed by the proposing party of the Soviet Union. This concludes the eighth item of the agenda. I'm setting a break to 15.25 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23737	Dear ladies and gentlemen, please insert identification cards into your MPs to determine the quorum. I'm guessing we have a quorum. Before we move to review the ninth item of the agenda, the draft law supplementing the Law on Local Elections, one statement - I would like to inform you that in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia a new parliamentary group called DOS - the Coalition of Vojvodina and the Serbian Movement of Resistance-Democratic Movement for Kosovo and Metohija in Serbia, consisting of five MPs. National MP Marijan Rističevic was appointed president of the parliamentary group and, for his deputy deputy, MP Sredoje Mihajlov. We move to the 9th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a LAW ON ENDING THE LAW ON Local Elections You have received a bill of law submitted by MP Cedomir Jovanovic. You've received a report from the Justice and Administration Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours and is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs they have. I ask the heads of the parliamentary groups to hand over the lists with a series of registered MPs, who want to take part in the debate on this agenda item. Since the Legislative Committee and the Government have not delivered a report, i.e. an opinion on the examination of the bill, I propose that the National Assembly, in accordance with Article 159(2). The Rules of Procedure, the draft law, also carried out without a report from the Legislative Committee, as well as without the Government's opinion. I'm putting a vote on the proposal I made. For 83, against 13, the abstentions were not voted 25, out of 121 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal to hold the debate without a report from the Legislative Committee and without the opinion of the Government. In accordance with Article 136(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Does the promoter, MP Cedomir Jovanovic, want a word? He has the word National MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23738	Ms. Micic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is actually a debate on the correction of the law that we adopted, after a large debate, just over a month ago. It is about the Law on Local Elections and the Technical Complementary of Article 59 of the Law, which provides for the possibility that two candidates who received the highest number of votes will go into the second round; instead of what has been in the law so far -- "two or more candidates who have received the same and at the same time the largest number of votes". It's practically the only change, where it's said that these are two candidates going to the second round. I think that formulation was needed first of all because from the space of three municipalities in southern Serbia, where elections are being held, a request has arrived to clarify this, and we were obliged to carry out this supplement, namely to formulate precisely which are two candidates who have the right to participate in the second round of elections for local self-government authorities. So, the two candidates who got the highest number of votes, that's that formula we added to Article 59 of this amended law and I'm counting on your understanding for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23739	Does the president of the Justice and Administration Committee want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, want the word? The word was first reported by MP Vojislav Seselj, president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23740	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is a good amendment to the law. Of course, I have an objection to the law in general. I warned you when there was a debate on the law that a very bad solution was the direct choice of the president of the municipality and the giving of enormous powers to that same president, and he was practically irreplaceable. I use this opportunity to remind you once again, before the general local elections in Serbia, to consider changing that. He can return to you as a boomerang for the election of the president of the municipality. However, it is not good for anyone. But something else made me answer my word. This is my June 3, 2002 amendment. It's where I showed you the weakness you're correcting right now. I asked my amendment to amend Article 59(2) and reads: "If no candidate in the first round of voting receives the required number of votes, two candidates who received the highest number of votes, or more candidates who received the same, at the same time the largest number in the first round of voting." You didn't want to adopt that amendment. Maybe you haven't even read it; automatically, since it's from the SRS, you refuse. And now, after a month and a half, you've come to the point that you have to urgently adopt the amendment of the law that you've just passed. I'm not triumphant about it, I'm just warning you -- on legal-professional issues, you should always hear different opinions and think about the amendments, regardless of whether the amendments are a party of power or opposition. If you had accepted this amendment then, the law should not be changed today. And you can think, in the world of lawyers, amongst the professional people, how awful it works when the National Assembly adopts one system law, so after a month and a half, it changes it. That's what every lawyer understands. I guess Mr. Shabic understands that, too, because I walk around in his eyes when he understands something, when he realizes the problem so he's not very comfortable, then he knocks his eyes out. You could have accepted that amendment and you wouldn't have to change the law today. My command was in the process at the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23741	Replica, MP Rodoljub Sabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23742	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we're probably facing one of the shortest laws we've ever had in this session. There is no need to mystify things, Mr. Jovanovic is a proposing under the circumstances, and it may have been normal for such proposals to give or initiate a ministry on which I am headed, but it is only one clarification. So, even at the time we adopted the Law on Local Self-Government and thus introduced into the legal system a solution that we are now changing, we have done nothing wrong. We may have introduced an ugly, little ruse and not enough precise solution, but whose meaning in the far line is clear. Since we are facing serious elections, which we are all interested in being held in a normal, real, democratic way, in three municipalities where we have had serious problems and where we want to revitalise our legal and political system, then we care that there are no doubts. From the field came questions that may not be clear to me as a lawyer, because it was quite obvious that there was a second round. If one candidate, as stated in point 1, does not get most of the votes of those who voted, then the second round goes. Now, what it said was that in the second round of the two candidates, the left out sentence "who got the most votes", rather than "two or more candidates who got the same and at the same time the biggest numbers" -- that is one ambiguity, but does not question the importance of the norm. One word, they were looking for an explanation. Yes, Mr. Seselj, you have given the amendment, I confess here that it was a solid amendment. There were two ways: one, that the Assembly gave authentic interpretation; and the other, to solve it for all time by changing this law. Since the process of authentic interpretation is the same and equally complex as the change of the law, Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic came out to meet the idea and submitted the bill. I don't see that we have a big story here, but I'm asking you to adopt this proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23743	I ask if the presidents or representatives of the other parliamentary groups apply for the word? Please, MP Zoran Cirkovic, deputy president of the New Serbia parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23744	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, indeed, the draft law supplementing the Law on Local Elections actually intervenes only with a single syntagm inserted into a second position, and this is Article 59. I am surprised that the author of the law missed such inaccuracy, so subsequent intervention is necessary. Of course, I'm not amnesting Mr. Sabic because he wasn't even a minister then, it became later. But I regret that if it's already intervened in this law, there are no more holes that have been patched up. There are some holes and shortcomings left that I've been pointing to to the amendments. It is true that in the principle debate then, the government's representative, Mr. Covic, supported my amendment reaction and simply made it clear that the government would accept it and improve the legal text. Now, Mr. Shabic, was a handsome opportunity to patch you up. Let me tell you, when something can be calculated, then you can predict it; when it can't be calculated, it's difficult to predict it; so it's said that every science is as much as there is mathematics in it. Of course, I don't qualify math as universal and all-knowing science, but I point out that whatever we want to say, we have to do it. Just what's subject to measurement, it has value; it doesn't have what can't be measured. When I pointed out in the amendments to things that could be fixed, I can understand people who don't deal with it exactly as they don't understand it, but not why they don't let me explain it. I have indeed shown good willingness to serve them, and therefore I regret that the authorised legislator of this law has not accepted the amendments, especially since I had the government's promise to do so. The intervention with this member is welcome because it removes possible doubt. What's especially not going to be good is that I hear in the corporals that this law is in some way limited range, or that it is intended for single use. Don't make laws, messages to the government, that are for single use. You make laws that have a longer term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23745	Does any of the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, sign up for this agenda item? No, I don't. We move to debate according to the application for the word of the MPs of the people. Only the SPS parliamentary group, a registered speaker, handed over to the list, is MP Jovan Todorovic, who has declared himself to be in fact for the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23746	Ms. Micic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SPS accepts amendments and amendments to the Law on Local Elections, but I must tell you that this time it shows that, because you are a bit of an ossion in your approach to amendments to opposition parties in parliament, we have exactly these situations to subsequently correct the text of the law in the section on selecting the president of the municipality. You are subsequently convinced that the opposition was right when she proposed to this particular amendment that the issue of the presidential election in the second round be more precisely regulated so that it is clear to everyone. I sincerely hope that you will come to know very quickly that some other amendments to this law, especially the SPS, are also acceptable and that they should be adopted in order to correct and specify the text. I would like to remind you that you have not accepted several amendments in such a way as to determine the elected committees from the list of political parties, where you have established the obligation to select at least one third of the committees according to the order in which the candidates are on the list. We have objectively threatened the choice of women and especially peasants in local congregations. So we're going to accept this change, we're going to vote for it, but I'm warning you that even this change isn't precise enough, especially in that part that applies to any third round; yes, there's Milk and the third round. The second round within 15 days, and the third round is possible within 8 days. And it is not quite clear who would go to the third round; for if we have five candidates in the first round, then one of them gets the biggest, but not big enough, and three get the same number of votes, then the four of them, according to this solution, go to the second round; is that right, Minister? In the third round, all four can go because theoretically, they can get the same number of votes. We have also barely convinced you that it is necessary for more than half of the voters enrolled to succeed in the local elections for the president of the municipality. It is good that you accepted it then, but I ask you to consider these other changes, agreed to the amendments that we have previously submitted, so that we have choices that will primarily reflect the will of the citizens and that we can choose the presidents who will be able to, in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Local Law, be responsible and seriously, above all, in the interests of the citizens, exercise that authority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-16-0.u23747	Thank you. Since there are no more entries on the list, I ask if the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want the word? No, no one wants to answer the word next time. I'm finalizing a principled search and I'm setting a break by 10.00 tomorrow. Bon appétit, ladies and gentlemen. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the Fifth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002. Please, in order to determine the quorum, insert your identification cards into the MPs. I find that using the electronic system has established that we have a quorum and we can continue to work. I would like to inform you that they are prevented from attending the following MPs: Zaharija Trnavčević, Jelena Milenković-Orlić, Milos Radivojčević, Aleksandar Stefanović, Juhas Atila, Momcilo Trajković, Neda Arnerić, Leila Ruždić-Trifunović, Bičai Anton, Predrag Stojanović, Zlata Djerić, Jakov Stamenković and Dragisa Marinkovic (before noon). I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-President, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. Also, according to members 83 and 84. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that I invited representatives of the Centre for Free Elections and Democracy, the National Movement "Resist", the National Democratic Institute, the Association of University Professors and Teachers of Serbia - the Section of "Colubar" and USAID to this session. I welcome the guests present. We move to the 10th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Security-Informative Agency (joint principle search with the proposal for a law on the organisation and jurisdiction of the state authorities in the fight against organised crime) I agree with the National Assembly's decision to carry out a joint principle search on draft laws, as proposed by MP Cedomir Jovanovic before the joint principled search was carried out, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, shall be five hours and shall be allocated according to the parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs that the parliamentary group has. I ask the presidents of the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to hand over lists of registered MPs who want to talk about these points of the agenda. I am opening a joint principle search : - Proposal for a law on a security-information agency and - Proposal for a law on the organisation and jurisdiction of state authorities in the repression of organised crime. Does the representative of the proposing Mr Dusan Mihajlovic, the interior minister, want a word? (yes) Here you go.
