ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25062	I have a proposal based on Article 137 that the debate in particular takes three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25063	I put to the vote the proposal of the People's Parliament of Hope Kolundgia, that the debate in particular takes three minutes. I ask the Members of Parliament to declare this proposal by a vote. I conclude the vote: for 100, against 58, there were no abstentions, there was no vote of 31, out of 189 MPs. I find that the proposal has been accepted, that the debate in particular takes three minutes. Also, I remind you that I have announced that after the debate, and using business opportunities, we will do today's vote. We're moving on to a search in detail. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The applicant of the amendment wants a word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25064	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS, in principle, continued its policy when discussing the 2002 budget. In this regard, inflation was 12% in 2002, and the growth of gross national income in 2003 will be 4%. So with this amendment, we wanted to take a more realistic picture of the situation in our incomes and to relieve taxpayers, or domestic industry. It has already been said repeatedly for this speaker that the excessive fiscal policy of a government can exclusively have negative consequences for both the economy and the living standards of citizens. Most of all, because the tax policy this government is pushing does not protect the domestic industry, as he wanted in his presentation yesterday, Mr. Prime Minister. Moreover, we have a situation where other goods of foreign origin, and most Croatian and Slovenian, have privileged status on the domestic market. This was primarily achieved through the closure of Serbian banks, by replacing Western European currencies in the euro, and where capital was accumulated, about two and a half billion euros in four sides of the bank, which pay our citizens an interest of between two and two and a half percent, and the debts mostly for Slovenian and Croatian goods, which our citizens, of these same banks, take and amount to 12 to 15% on an annual basis. Tax policy does not protect the domestic industry, although in the event that goods are not imported by the principle of reciprocity, i.e. goods of broad consumption, as far as we place them on foreign markets, so much can be accepted in Serbia as well. We are in fact financing business industries, capital outflows, foreign exchange outflows in the Croatian and Slovenian industries, most of which is credit for Mr. Mladjan Dinic and Zoran Djindjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25065	Is there an application for a word from authorized participants in the debate? Yeah. ) Here you are, president of the SRS parliamentary group National MP Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25066	Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment by Parliamentarian Arsic has been very rationally made, because this amendment advocates a much smaller budget that would relieve the economy and give it a break. No, as Zoran Djindjic said yesterday, that nothing is charged for two years, so that it develops, and that budget users die during that time. No, it's that what's most important for the state is to support from the budget 145 billion dinars is enough for pensions, for health care, for education, for the state's apparatus. So make savings in all budget items. We calculated yesterday, if only savings were made under these contracts of yours, special contracts, so that it would be the amount of half the 2000 budget. It's so irrational and it's so gross. Yesterday the ministers were trying to explain. Gašo Knezevic comes out and explains for nearly 300 million dinars, that he organizes seminars, scientific gatherings, symposiums, this, that. It's just a waste of money. He wants to requalified all teachers, all teachers, all teachers. How? He's giving them ideological political education. He's not gonna teach them anything new, except he's planning to brainwash them. So those savings are possible. We plead to save and achieve these, to dissipate taxpayers, and that the state, while the economy is in crisis, only funds what is really necessary. When you recalculate all expenditure items in the budget, you will see that in each item there is an opportunity to achieve savings. Item by item. They're very much in principle. You were supposed to make a draft budget law according to that final report of yours, the final bill for 2000, so that exactly what is financed, not a 300 million dinar item, would be taxed. It doesn't even say what that money's for. Covic's billion-and-300-million-dollar item doesn't even say what the money is for. Then we'll see, when we get there, what they're going for. There are opportunities for budgetary savings, and I propose that this amendment be adopted, that the total budget be significantly reduced, that the economy be disbursed, that it be given a break, and that the state finance only the most necessary.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25067	Is there any more word applications under this amendment? (No) National MPs Toma Busetic, Jovan Todorovic, Dusan Cvetkovic, Joca Arsic, Radojko Petric and Ljubomir Mucic submitted to the 1st amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The floor has a representative of the proposing National MP, Joca Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25068	Dear fellow Members and fellow MPs, respected journalists, Socialist Party, or its parliamentary group in the Serbian Parliament, submitted an amendment to Article 1. The draft budget law for the Republic of Serbia for 2003, provided that in Article 1(1), the economic classification of the amount of 190.000 million is to be replaced by 39,500,000 and the amount of 214,600,000 thousand is to be replaced by 235,000,000,000, with the reason that the privatisation revenues should be estimated as regular budget receipts of an increase of 20,000,400,000 dinars, which would be tasked with assessing the value of the real implementation. Also, these revenues should be real budgets for carrying out expenditure, not for financing the budget deficit coverage. We are basically against the fact that the revenues achieved by selling businesses are calculated as the cost of the budget and going to the purpose of spending the budget. We are principled to see that this revenue goes from sales, as envisaged here, in a small amount, and we believe that this amount should be increased and realistically assessed what needs to be sold, and that these funds should be used for the promotion of production, for new production, for increasing new values, and thus allow the budget to be filled in an economically more justified way than this transfer is by means of clean sales and investment in consumption. For these reasons, the parliamentary group believes that these revenues should be transferred from the budget deficit item to this part of the financing of the budget's needs, when your proposal is already envisaged, and that in this way, it is correct to take account of this proposal and allow for a better assessment of how much of the budget needs are financed, as you have already foreseen by this bill. To that end, the parliamentary group is asking the Assembly to accept this amendment and thus improve and make better use of these intended funds.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25069	The word is by MP Ljubomir Mucic, an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25070	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there's something wrong with the ministers, have they woken up? Last night, at the end of this debate, we will try to prove, in principle, that this debate has given some results and indeed through this amendment, which is the beginning of the 2003 budget, the Socialist Party parliamentary group, and Comrade Joca Arsic has brought forth here what it is about, suggested that the budget deficit, which is planned in the 2003 budget, is only 20%, 20 billion and that it is half smaller than the one that was designed by the government. Only by certain accounting operations, not by redistributing funds in the budget, although they have proposed to rationalise the total volume of funds for some 5 billion, we believe that this should be the beginning of a rationalisation of public spending in Serbia, and that through the planned budget deficit they are not funds that will come from privatisation revenues, but rather funds to be the regular revenue of the budget. I can't agree with the government's argument that the increase in other revenues, where we didn't get an explanation of what 19 billion and 100 were, consisting of the increase in other revenues in the budget covering 20 billion dinars as much as we predicted that there should be funds and revenues from privatisation in 2003, given that in 2002 these funds were achieved and achieved, at least according to Minister Djelic's report of 13.8 billion. So, our proposal is that, as part of the global funding of the privatisation budget, the revenues will enter the regular revenue of 2003, to reduce the planned budget deficit from 46 to 20 billion and the proposal is that the current budget deficit for 2003 is covered by donation income and credit funds. For these reasons, I urge you to vote in favour of this amendment and show good faith that this government is also ready at this time to go together to streamline public spending, and also to move towards a reduction in the budget deficit below 3.8%, as it was in the previous and planned for 2003.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25071	Is there any more applications under this amendment? (No) National MP Bratoljub Janackovic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has an amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25072	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, by its amendment to Article 1. I have proposed that paragraphs 2 and 3 be deleted, and paragraphs 2 and 3 of this law speak about the way and percentage of the distribution of revenues collected from sales taxes and excise duties between the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and Serbia. I am aware that this amendment in this proposed form cannot be adopted at this time, but I wanted to point out with this amendment all the seriousness of the problems and the need for this Parliament to discuss very quickly how to finance the future community or the union of Serbia-Montenegro. Since yesterday in the debate, I spoke in detail about why it is important to redecorate the way Serbia-Montenegro's future community should be financed, and this time I only want to briefly repeat how we see a solution to Serbia-Montenegro's future relations, and as regards joint funding. We want Serbia in the future federal state, that is, in Serbia-Montenegro's union, which will finance the future 95% of the total cost of the common state, to know where and how the taxpayers' money is spent and how to control it. Therefore, we believe that all revenues collected from the taxpayers of Serbia should be poured into Serbia's budget in the future. Also, all expenditure financed by a taxpayer from Serbia, referring to Serbia-Montenegro's union, to be shown in the Republic of Serbia's budget with the same level of detail as for other divisions. Thirdly, to carry out all obligations exclusively through the vault of the Republic of Serbia, because through a joint administration that will exist in a future federal state, we cannot do well enough and in a quality way to co-roll the spending of these funds. With this, the fourth request to parliament is that control, both internal and external, by the institutions of the Republic of Serbia, is carried out in terms of everything the taxpayers in Serbia finance. I am aware that this amendment may have come at too soon, but I believe that when it comes to the agenda, the Constitutional Charter and the laws to regulate its application, this amendment will find its place and make a concrete contribution to resolving the issue of financing the future common state.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25073	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) To Article 2. The amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Tomba Busetic, Jovan Todorovic, Dusan Cvetkovic, Joca Arsic, Radojko Petric and Ljubomir Mucic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? The People's Messenger Tom Bushetić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25074	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a group of SPS MPs has proposed an amendment to Article 2 proposing a reduction of budget deficits from 47 billion to 20 billion. We have projected funding from donations to cover the deficits of 12 billion dinars and another part of domestic borrowing of 8 billion. We believe that, given that this power is quite serene and serviceable to Western mentors, it can draw out a lot more donations, given that, in terms of war damage, they can't even mention anything, and that compensation would be much greater. It would be enough to charge one percent of the war's damage, so these donations would be very high and high. On the other hand, we believe that loans from international financial organisations should also be given up because these loans are mostly unfavourable. Yesterday, it wasn't until the end or debated what happened to the donations. We have a large number of cases in various countries of the world where Western governments are making certain donations that are returning to their banks again with 4% interest rates on the annual level, while at the same time granting them very unfavourable loans with 12% interest. This has happened in many countries, and it is certainly possible for our country to do so. It is also bitter experience in the former Yugoslavia, at the time of Tito, when the Assembly found, in the 1970s, that IMF loans were very unfavourable and that even by investing them in production, the economy did not flourish after these loans. Of course, these loans need to be put first of all in the function of covering the deficit. We don't think all of this is necessary.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25075	Are any of the other authorised participants applying for a word? The word has the People's MP Ljubomir Mucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25076	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment to Article 2 is a logical consequence of the acceptance of the amendment to Article 1. I can say that in this amendment we have explained why the budget deficit should not be financed from international loans, given that yesterday we mentioned an agreement and a memorandum with the IMF, so far it seems to me, twice, that such an agreement has been made, and that in all global macroeconomic indicators there should not be a slave to the complete settings, at least as regards nominal sizes, while the real ones should be respected. It also agrees with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which responded to one subsequent amendment by the MP, that the amendment is rejected because there is no need for additional budget borrowing from international financial institutions and amounts in the draft law on the Republic's budget for this year and conditions of the country's high external debt, it is necessary to adequately assess the needs and opportunities for additional borrowing. Our proposal is for the budget deficit, planned for next year, to be 20 billion dinars and to cover the budget deficit for the largest part, about 200,000 euros, from funds collected from donations and 8 billion dinars to be provided from funds through the issue of bonds and loans from the National Bank and the business banks. I think it is much more acceptable in these conditions, given that regular funds from privatisation revenues should be real revenue, i.e. regular budget revenues for 2003, and that borrowing is nevertheless through training and consolidation of business banks or by the National Bank of Yugoslavia, perhaps in this public paying service which should be and indicated its formation and which will carry out all public expenditures financed from the budgets of the Republic, funds and other budgetary organisations. Therefore, I think that this amendment has also led to a lack of understanding of the government. We seek and explain no increase in budget and other revenue. We are only trying to put regular revenues based on privatisation into regular budget receipts without the reduced budget deficit being out of debt to international organisations, but to be made out of donations from both domestic business banks and the National Bank or through bond broadcasting.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25077	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miroljub Veljkovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is submitted by the amendment, MP Miroljub Veljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25078	With my amendment, I proposed that the Republic of Serbia's 2003 budget be reduced by a total of 69 billion dinars. My proposal refers to a reduction in planned income, not a planned deficit of 40 billion dinars. That planned deficit is a special story. I continue to argue that the 2003 budget of the Republic of Serbia is unreal on the receiving side and terribly wasteful on the breeding side. In general, the 2003 public spending projection is simply incredibly high for the economy in a deep recession for the population with an extremely small economic power. Yesterday, ministers told us all day and night that the economy is in expansion and that the same economy will be able to satisfy the growth of the government's appetites. We all know, honourable MPs, that's not so. We are all witnesses, in the middle of where we come from, that economic activity in all these environments is in a terrible downturn and that the economy simply won't be able to throw out this much pressure and that we're in danger of the economy completely bankrupting us. Yesterday, the Prime Minister and the Ministers came in to convince us that the people had money, that the people lived better, and that they would bear these planned fiscal burdens easily. All of us in this room know that's not true, but this government has drained dry dreno, there's nothing left to drain. You're probably going to answer the question, we heard that yesterday - and where did you get the money for the budget users? I can't even think of a chance to say that it is necessary to reduce planned pensioners, education, health care, police, military, etc. As much as I think they need to be increased radically. So where are the reserves to accept this 69 billion reduction? Yesterday, Mr. Seselj analyticalally presented to you only one category of planned costs, so-called. Costs per contract. All the ministries, absolutely all the ministries planned huge funds for these purposes, and it is not clear what will be spent in. And here, that item, we're fucking that item, and here's the place where this proposed reduction of the revenue side of the budget is accepted. Or, for example, to abolish this Covico Co-ordination Body for Kosovo and Metohija. In addition to making savings out of billions of dinars, by abolishing this miracle, not only discharging the budget, but doing one extremely good thing by national and state interests. So, honourable MPs, there is room to relax the budget on the revenue side, there is plenty of room and I invite you to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25079	Anyone else want a word? He has the word of National Envoy Vojislav Seselj, president of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25080	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the SRS parliamentary group supports MP Miroljub Veljkovic's amendment, for the same reasons that we supported, because we want first and foremost the budget for next year to be in a much smaller amount than the one you have designed, and otherwise, this member of the Budget Law, Article 2 contains some indifference, not already indicated. Because how can you make something that is called regular income here as a way of financing the budget deficit? See these figures - in Article 2(2), paragraph 2. - who in the government, Minister Djelic, or Minister Vlahovic, calculated that the privatisation revenue would be 15,389,819,000 dinars, why haven't you made 426 dinars yet, when are you so precise? And nowhere in the Budget Law did you show us how you got this number. You had to specify exactly what is planned for next year for sales, through which form of privatisation, to explain this huge sum of 15 billion. You can't explain it, because you're just guessing. You don't know in advance if you're going to sell sugar for 100 million dinars, for a billion dinars, or for three euros. You don't know that, because, as the circumstances arise, you're acting like one, which means you're not accessing the privatisation process in a plan. Next, how exactly did you predict donations of 9.530,000,000? Why didn't you name 9,530,647,222 dinars, for example? (Employee Cedomir Jovanovic, from the place: and 50 pairs). And 50 pairs, too, that's a good addition, Mr. Jovanovic. Don't give him the replica, because this was an objection to consent. In the same way that you stated this, you are, in fact, through another member of this law, the desired budget deficit, because only one who has unrealistical state-owned assets, predetermins that will have such a huge budget deficit, you set out through several items, which are completely uncertain. In the same way, you could have said 15 billion donations, 9 billion out of privatisation, no explanation whatsoever, no calculation, no argument whatsoever. That's the same thing as these two remaining points within this line two, you have absolutely no basis.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25081	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Srdjan Petrovic, Dusan Ilic and Dragan Lazic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a representative of the amendment's applicants, MP Srdjan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25082	The respected presidency, respected counterparts, the DSS, analysing the budget, concluded there was room for a certain budget reduction. We have, by analysing items on the side of the expenditure, found that there are some 4.5 billion dinars in that space, although we have also heard some analysis that there are nearly 20 billion dinars in that space. Normally, the goal of every government, especially in our terms, should actually be to reduce the share of expenditure on public spending, in national income. We share that attitude, and that's why we started to cut the budget by 4.5 billion dinars. Normally, you need to see what these 4.5 billion dinars are taken from. Normally, since we have a deficit budget, it is most logical to take it from the deficit, and when you look at the items of the deficit, it is most logical and perfectly normal to take it, i.e. to remove the borrowing item abroad. Of the four items, that means privatisation, domestic debt, foreign debt, is most logical to determine this by reducing foreign debt. There, and 4.5 billion dinars mean that in item 2 in point 3 number 12,734,000 would change to 8.196,296,704 dinars. So basically one-third would cut that item. It concerns this high deficit of 46.9 billion dinars, and it certainly needs to be reduced, because it represents as much as 21% of the budget. It has been concluded that it is possible to implement a reduction in the planned resources within certain expenditure groups without questioning the achievement of the basic functions, which are being hired by the involvement of these funds in financial support. We'll talk about it in the next amendment. This would reduce the expected deficit and the necessary resources to cover the deficit. The most just is to cut the funds to cover the deficit on the basis of credit from international financial institutions. The explanation of the government, which it does not accept our amendment, is that the arrangement that these loans are obtained is very favourable, at the age of 20, I feel free of interest, etc. It is okay, however, to be in charge, and normally, if there is room to spend, and such a duty should be reduced. That's why we gave this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25083	Does anyone else, of the authorized participants in the debate, want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic, Adam Urosevic and Zivko Selakovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The word is made by MP Dragan Markovic, representative of the amendment's applicants. Do you want to use the time as deputy MP, then you have six minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25084	I'll see, don't give me now when you interrupted me yesterday.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25085	That's why I'm asking you not to interrupt, I thought it was better for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25086	The Serbian Unity Party has proposed an amendment and is asking that the proposed solution to the deficit coverage, by tasking international financial institutions, is unacceptable for the Serbian Unity Party. We believe that if we re-indemnify ourselves, as we did this year, we're in debt twice with international institutions, and given how it's planned to fill the budget from donations, from sold factories and international loans, and that money goes for wages. That money doesn't go into production. The question is, where are we gonna get that money back from those banks? It is known that production in this year is not the same, as Minister Djelic said yesterday, as well as the Prime Minister, that production fell, that we are exporting less now, than we exported in 1999 and 1998. The Serbian Unity Party proposes that this member be deleted, that we do not owe ourselves to fill the budget and in this way, that the funds go directly to the salaries. The question is, when the deadline comes for these loans to come back, and we don't have a well-being factory, because by then we'll be selling everything, these factories, as we've worked in Serbia so far, where we'll get those loans back, and then the intubulation, the one that's been given, will automatically go to whoever gave us that money. Therefore, the Serbian Unity Party is looking domestically at this budget, unlike the ruling party. We believe that the budget should not be charged from credit, but from real sources of revenue, and by production, which has not been the case lately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25087	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The amendmentr wants a word. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25088	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Article 3, sets out funds to cover the budget, the expenditure of the AP Vojvodina budget, so we should transfer from the budget of the Republic of Serbia to the Autonomous Region, and the first indent states that it is 16.3% of the amount achieved in the territory of the Autonomous Province, i.e. income from the income tax to the citizens, and in the second indent, that this is part of the company's income, amounting to 50%, of the amount achieved in the province's territory and limited to 2 billion 605 million 655,000. What we are required under the omnibus law in indent 3. - transfer of funds, transferred from the budget of 8,630,000 for the salaries of educational employees, in primary and secondary care, and that's about 62,6 billion dinars in total. A 4th indent that I am asking for to be deleted, it is said that funds to cover the expenditures of the AP budget are provided from other revenues achieved in the province of Vojvodina's territory. The explanation of why I ask for this indent to be deleted is that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia should not determine by its budget the revenue generated by the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina from its sources, especially because the draft budget does not set the limit of the amount and there are no precise sources of revenue. The government, refuting this amendment of mine, says this is because it violates the provisions of other legal regulations that allow for the existence of the original incomes of the AP Vojvodina. That was not at all questionable to me, precisely because there are original incomes of the AP Vojvodina that we cannot determine, we cannot limit and I am asking that this indent be deleted, which is ultimately contradictory to the full first position of this member.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25089	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? Yeah. ) The word is held by MP Vojislav Seselj, president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25090	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the SRS parliamentary group, supports the amendment of MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, given that this entire third member is evidence, an indication of the situation the government has brought itself into, and proposing that famous omnibus law to the National Assembly. You have created one quasi federal unit from the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina, despite its strict powers in the Constitution of Serbia, and now you are facing the problem of its functioning in every new legal project. This is specifically indicated by the position, the pre-latest position, that is the position of Article 4, where it is said -- the AP Vojvodina budget pays the salaries of the 2nd member's position on the following day, from the date of receipt of the funds for these purposes to the jury account. You first predicted to be paid to all who are employed in education, and this in the field of Vojvodina, is paid out of the budget of the AP Vojvodina. What kind of danger have you come to now? On the other hand, the fact that these salaries are now unequal, that you have made the basic sense of the status of civil servants, civil servants in the end, who must be unique in the entire territory of the state, have done differently. But you can see for yourself what the problem is. It will happen to you to pay money into the budget of the AP Vojvodina, and that the government of the Autonomous Region, that is to say, does not pay the salary. You say now in this position that these salaries must be paid immediately the next day. Where's the sanctions? You're ordering the Executive Council that there's something it has to do, it won't do, what are you going to do, replace it? You can't. To punish? You can't. What are you going to do? That you're filing unsuspecting criminal charges, and you can see that the courts aren't responding to that. You can't file criminal charges when you think it's necessary, but when criminal law requires something as a felony, you find that there is a criminal offence and then you file a criminal case. There's no sanctions here. In practice, you will get paid out of the Republic budget for healthcare, for education, for information, for culture in the Vojvodina area, and there the Executive Council says - yes, it needs for all of this, for health care and for education, but it is more important for something else, so it will spend your money on something else. The minister can nod his head to his will, but there's no sanctions here. Where is the guarantee that this last position of Article 3, where is this guarantee? She's nowhere to be found.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25091	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Živanko Radovančev, Golub Rajic, Miomir Ilic, Ljubomir Mucic and Rade Bajic. Since this amendment has been adopted by the Government and the Finance Committee, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Members of the 4th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Petrovic, Dusan Ilic and Dragan Lazic. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I would like to remind you that by accepting the amendments of MPs Zivanko Radovanchev, Golub Rajic, Miomir Ilic, Ljubomir Mucic and Radet Bajic, he has become an integral part of the proposal for the act, as Article 4 is deleted. Do any of the authorized participants in the debate want a word? Here's a word from MP Srdjan Petrovic, on behalf of the applicants of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25092	I'm taking the opportunity to explain what's proposed to this. Article 4 is about the appropriations of the Ministry of Agriculture for functions in agrarian, in agriculture. My colleague Kurjački talked a lot yesterday about how we feel that part of the budget is dedicated to the agrarian should look. So, we believe that the government should submit to Parliament an agrarian programme and that, on that basis, we decide through that programme on the appropriations. Given that this substance is essentially similar to that given to Article 14, which is well noted by fellow SPS MPs, and that the Government has accepted this amendment, that practically Article 4 is connected to Article 14, we are giving up on this amendment, and normally we are going to talk about an amendment to Article 14 that we also have.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25093	I find that the amendment has been withdrawn from the procedure and thus ceases to be the subject of discussion in particular. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 4th amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here's a word for Natasa Jovanovic's MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25094	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Prime Minister Djindjic spoke little of agriculture and the agrarian budget for 2003 yesterday, relying on the minister, who was present last night, half present, Dragan Veselinov, who even came out without reminding the MPs and the general public of his failures recorded in 2001 and 2002. In fact, you planned for 2002 to make the agrarian budget six billion and 300 million. The SRS parliamentary group proposed last year that it be 8 billion for 2000 and you are 6 billion and 300 million and not only continue with the deceptions of agricultural producers, and out of the entire active population in Serbia there are one quarter, but in advance you tell them, what with this unrealistic budget projection, which in 2002, they will not have the funds standing here on paper. The amendment I've filed increases and requires an increase in the agrarian budget of yours, on paper alone, from 7 billion 503 million to 9 billion. We think there's a lot of ground to it. Especially because of the fact that no agricultural producers are at all stimulated, which is small premiums, which is technical and technological obsolescence, which is because of the inability to place quality products that we have in our country, in other countries. And not only do you destimulate them in this way, and not only do you deprive them of the ability to develop such a very important, most important strategic branch of the economy, but you create additional problems for them with high tax policy, because in the case of income tax on citizens, it was also a scheme of circumstances that I submitted, we asked that the income tax on citizens for agricultural producers be reduced from 20 to 10%. It did not want to accept Minister Djelic and such a still high tax rate burdened additional agricultural producers, and on the other hand not only is Dragan Veselinov embarrassing this strategic economic branch, but everything he did in 2002, along with Prime Minister of Privatisation Aleksandr Vlahovic, distributes sugar, and before that you have done with cements, and this is a recipe for the entire economy in our country, so for three euros, an attempt to sell out, although for a little higher sum, sugars in Crvenkovski, and all that you have done with livestock production in the past 2002, it is right to cause great concern that there is only one more proof that you do not want to see this strategic economic branch in the account and that this estimated agrarian budget will not be realised, because of the planned 6 billion and only EUR 4,5 billion in 2002.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25095	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate applying for a word? Here's a word from MP Vojislav Seselj, president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25096	On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I support the amendment of MP Natasa Jovanovic, because this item does not provide for sufficient funds for subsidies, as defined here by non-financial corporations, I guess that the layman would not understand what this is about. This is the amount of 7.5 billion. It's exactly 7.5 billion you've predicted to pay for the work contracts. When more special services are added, it comes out about 12 to 15 billion. When you add travel expenses, it's a huge amount. Increase the rate by at least a billion and a half subsidies in agriculture at the expense of travel costs. It is illogical for government ministers to charge travel expenses when travelling through Serbia. They've got a driver, they've got state gas, they've got a state car, so he still needs a living room. It doesn't make any sense. You've actually perfected that practice. Give it based on a reduction in travel costs to increase for agriculture. It's as simple as you can do. I don't know if Minister Sabic is now authorized on behalf of the government to accept the amendment since Djelic is not here. Or the government hasn't even declared its amendments, it doesn't even count on the amendments being put on the agenda of its sessions, which is also a precedent in Serbia's government system. So this is the simplest solution -- reduce all items related to travel costs, which will make RJP's CEO travel abroad. Radovic traveled more than a hundred times, I was confirmed in the government. Djelic knows that now, too, at the expense of the government. On this basis, it can be increased by a billion and a half of this, subsidies in agriculture. I guess that's the simplest thing that can be done and that can be useful for the whole country. You see now what the crisis in agriculture has been like. The country destimulated the production of wheat. The question is whether we'll have wheat next summer for domestic production. The minister said no wheat. How can a minister say that? And when he was in the opposition, I remember well, he asked for a ransom price of 32 fening. And it can be secured, it doesn't need wheat. Well, then it will be -- it doesn't need corn, it doesn't need agriculture, what will it be, and when will all these Slovenians import here, Slovenian beef? The banned imports of beef from many European countries and also from Slovenia, however, is enough that Goran Svilanovic's wife is employed in marketing "Merkatora" For his wife Goran Svilanovic, he comes to the opening ceremony "Merkatora" and beef salami from Slovenia in huge quantities. [[elevator.]] For nothing now, the state authorities concerning sanitary inspections, the state authorities protecting our goods, our market, etc. What are you gonna do tomorrow when you get mad cow disease? I know, if this disease occurs in the government at all, it will not be known, but if it appears among us ordinary citizens it will cause disaster.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25097	Is there anyone else in the debate? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Petrovic, Dusan Ilic and Dragan Lazic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does a representative of the applicants of the amendment want a word? Here's a word from MP Srdjan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25098	As I said earlier, when I was talking about reducing the budget deficit and that it was necessary to cut the funds from foreign loans. Normally, an adequate figure should be reduced on the dispersal side. We found that space and that in economic classification 4.2. use of goods and services. We have argued that it is the costs which are mostly not fixed, which makes it possible for budget users to reduce them by better organisation, planning, control and greater financial discipline. That reduction from 19.3 to 18.3 billion, which is about 5% somewhere, which corresponds to the figures we've reduced the total budget by. In the context of this group of costs, in particular the high involvement of funds is the need for services under contract, i.e. classification 4.2.3. travel costs of classification 4.2.2. permanent costs 4.2.1. materials, specialised services etc. What was probably used in the new budget classification, that many bodies financed from the budget used this new budget classification to continue with old practice and in some way exploit the inability of the Ministry of Finance to control them. So in a way, they fake their expenses. So they practically made some unnecessary financial reserves, according to us. Under the 4.5th subsidy group, a reduction was made from 35.3 billion to 33.3 billion, which is also 5%. Starting with the fact that a high share of funding related to the social transfers of 67.1 billion dinars, as well as the social assistance of 31.3 billion dinars, is foreseen this year. We also believe that the minimum reduction in grants to non-financial corporations, precisely because the funds are provided for as social assistance from the budget, which is a classification of the 47th largely complementary by its functions and effects with the grants. Also 4.4.4, these are practically costs and borrowing and reduced from 200 to 100 million dinars. Also, it's a similar thing at 48, from 3.2 to 2.7. 4.8.2. taxes and penalties are too high and should not be so high. 4.8.3. fines, courts, judicial bodies, it's also too high, which is 1.6 billion. For basic assets 5.1, there is also room for reduction to nearly 10%. It is especially important to point out, and we talked yesterday, many Republic authorities financed from the budget have their own incomes. We didn't see either in the final account of the 2001 budget or in this budget for 2003 the plan of these own resources. We believe that in these own sources there is room for funding of basic assets and their basic assets, which are in economic classifications of 511 and 512 buildings and building facilities.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25099	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25100	If we had that then we could know, there would be places to reduce these expenditures, and thus budgets.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25101	The word has been made by MP Dejan Mihajlov, president of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25102	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to ask if we have the conditions to lead this debate, since we do not have an authorised motionary here and a representative of the government at this session, so we have no one to worry about amendments at all and who to give us further explanations. Mr. Sabic is not in the material that is authorized, and that is Finance Minister Bozidar Djelic. There are no Prime Ministers, and I don't know how we can discuss the amendments responsibly. When it's marketingly necessary, then there's the whole government to blur our eyes and tell us demagogue stories that are told about concrete things, such as budgets, certain items, how money is spent, where money is going to go from this and that. They're not here. I think this is a fundamental disrespect and demeaning of this House. Mr Petrovic's amendment is heading towards a reduction in the budget deficit that has been overinflated. We asked the amendment to reduce the budget deficit, and those items that have to be reduced to foreign expenditure are just subtracting from those funds provided for by the ministries that they will voluntarily dispose of. These funds are mainly abused by being directed to obedients, loved ones, some agencies they love, various NGOs. That way you can't work. It's a waste of budget money without control. There are around 30 billion dinars in this budget, left to be spent on discretionary decisions by the government and ministries. So 30 billion dinars are left to a group of 30 people to have and see which is the sum and how precise it is to focus this budget, it can contribute to focusing on agriculture, in industry, in reviving some businesses, or through the Fund to develop transparently and extremely responsiblely for some programmes. I don't think we have any basic conditions to conduct this debate. There's no minister or anyone else in the government who's been working on the budget to explain all these remarks. I think we should just stop this debate until conditions are obtained so we can work responsibly. By the way, this is completely pointless, to go out here, to explain the amendments. Who are we doing this for? Who do we convince? I think this is irresponsible by the government of the Republic of Serbia. I understand that yesterday they sat down until when we did, so we came here today to work, and this is our most important job, because if they experience the congregation this way then what they expect and how they expect this congregation to support them in general in what they do.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25103	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zarko Obradović, Zoran R. Angelkovic, Ljubomir Mucic, Radojko Petrovic, Nebojsa Jović and Hranislav Peric. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Angelkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25104	Ladies and gentlemen, the problem here is that this Article 6 and 7 are effectively tied up and objectively it would be to first resolve the issue in Article 7 and it would be the most natural fact that Article 7 would be elaborated so that each ministry would be a special member, as it turns out that one parliamentary group could be able to submit a single amendment to 50 different sections within the framework of Article 7 per ministry. It's almost impossible to explain in three minutes. What do we do? In this context, we need to clarify this Article 6. What is essentially in Article 6, what is the SPS parliamentary group looking for? We propose, of course, a reduction in the corresponding costs to propose an increase in the following items. I'll explain the increase first. We propose an increase for Kolubara, meaning for an earthquake in Kolubara from 700 million to 1.500,000, because this is how it turns out that it is in fact seeking to end this earthquake recovery fund in the area. Then, we propose an increase from 1.500,000 to 3.500,000 for the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, because we think the fund has had a major impact on the equal development of the Republic of Serbia. It would be wrong for him to end this way. We propose to introduce one item at the Justice Ministry in Article 7, but in Article 6 it must be regulated first, to 50 million to help those who are in various ways from The Hague tribunal, aid to our citizens who have been indicted before The Hague tribunal. I'll explain it, but first, let me make it clear what we're proposing to cut as a cost. We suggest that it be reduced as a cost of course, a fee for the work contract and travel and travel costs. The deal on the work is as you know 3,280,000,000 and it is one item that is in fact in the hands of each minister individually that he actually sign contracts and, for example, to reform the education of Mrs Cerović Kovac takes as assistant minister and plus on the contract on part of the money because she wrote some document on education reforms. And in order for things like this to not happen, and there's plenty of space there, it needs to be reduced there. Also, when it comes to travel expenses. There's a huge amount of space there, because this item has not been treated in most of these ministries in this way so far. Of course, the position of the president of the Republic of Serbia can be absolutely reduced because we do not have a president of the Republic for at least the next few months. Although, I see in public, Mrs. Natasha is running, and I haven't seen her on the ballot and there's no constitutional basis for her to be. President Milutinovic, he doesn't cost anything anyway, so when he stays, it can be halved, that item, because he can objectively remain, nothing costs, in a material sense, in terms of the costs of this budget. Natasha can't be, I don't know how she made herself president of Serbia, it's her problem. When it comes to these costs, why do we propose an increase in costs and the introduction of 50 million items to defend our people...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25105	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25106	Who are in front of The Hague tribunal. 20 seconds on the next load.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25107	People's MP, if you were to spend your time on the subject, you'd have another 30 seconds, and this is how I ask you to finish. Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic, president of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25108	Dear fellow Members of Parliament, the figures, at least when it comes to this amendment, can hide the essence of our commitment and why we have proposed this amendment, so I will try to tell the MPs in a few sentences what it is about. First and foremost, we have proposed to change positions within this general sum of funds and we have proposed that in the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Serbia, funds of 50 million dinars be allocated to the defence costs of the indicted citizens before The Hague tribunal. We are primarily referring to the defence of Slobodan Milosevic and other people, but above all to the defence of Slobodan Milosevic. The fact is that on the basis of the Government Decision of the Republic of Serbia, President Milosevic was delivered to The Hague, we say he was kidnapped, and you claim he was delivered. The fact is, he's in The Hague. We believe that there are enough good reasons for our country to provide funds for him, but I tell other people, but primarily, it helps him to provide a sufficient number of witnesses who would say what they think about everything that's been going on in the former Yugoslavia's premises over the past 10 years. Some may not like it as a story, but the fact is that it is not only President Milosevic's trial there, but it is through the trial of President Milosevic that judges both this country and this people. Whether you accept it or not, it shows everything that's going on there. The second thing that we asked for in this amendment is to cut costs to the Ministry of Finance and the cost of travel. Imagine only when costs of 151 million for the Ministry of Finance and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia with 250 MPs are allocated to the funds of 78 million. The third item, which is also important to us, we thought that within the general sum, it was necessary to increase the amount of funds to the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, we believe that simply this country does not have a future without production, without creating a new value, that money cannot be taken from citizens indefinitely, that this old savings that exist, which is a fact, has a limit and that there must be more significant allocations within what the state should do in its economic strategy in order to create a new value. Without a new value, this country simply won't be able to function. Maybe a year, maybe two, but she doesn't have a perspective without creating a new value. In the end, in order not to skip that part, we suggested raising funds for the Colubary County due to the earthquake. It's a law that goes for next year. The projected funds here are, in our opinion, small. Not everything has been removed in that district, which was destroyed during the earthquake, and that's why we suggested that this position be increased by these proposed funds. I expect you to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25109	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? The word has a finance and economy minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25110	I just want to say that as far as travel costs are concerned, he at the department of finance and economy is for all members of the government. These are selected and placed faces. You'll notice that there's no such thing in the government's division, and that's because of the increased control. The government of the Republic of Serbia has repeatedly carried out an analysis and there have been various demands to see who travels and how much remains and there it has been seen that if we compare some other governments in the environment or to some other institutions in our country, these expenditures will be extremely modest this year and they will be more modest than anticipated. So it's not just for the ministry.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25111	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? (No) The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25112	The point of the Serbian Radical Party's amendment is to cut costs on the dispensary side of the budget, and that is to say, expenditure relating to various contracts, service contracts, for some specialised services, ongoing repairs, maintenance, fixed costs, travel costs and not to list all the taxes. Namely, what's this about? We believe from the Serbian Radical Party that these are unnecessaryly high costs, and if it is done as the Serbian Radical Party proposes in its amendment, then gentlemen will come to the understanding that we will only make savings on this side, or on these expenditures that we correct for the amount of approximately the same, if not greater, that we receive in the form of donations, because here we see that we are counting on donations of 9 billion and 530 million. If we just make a correction to these costs, then we won't need those donations. On condition that we may spend these donations, if it is with the certainty that you claim it will arrive, we can spend on other purposes, rather than taking care of them by providing high rates for official travel and contract services. Namely, why does the Serbian Radical Party insist on accepting this amendment? For a simple reason, we take and quite seriously analyse the situation that is in Serbia in the part that the government is counting on to be on behalf of the budget. That's just impossible. It's impossible for many reasons, and we talked about it yesterday, we talked to you, we explained, but obviously it's not worth it, but here's to help you with this part of the expenditure, if nothing else, just yesterday, as the prime minister said, suggested a budget that is 70% of the social character or what you would say on all the radios and TV stations, the most social budget in Europe, which has been seen so far. By saving these funds, transfer for these social needs. Don't accuse the opposition of not paying their pensions. The opposition is giving you a proposal to secure regular payments. One share of travel expenses only, of these special contracts transfer, help pensioners, transfer to the fund and they will be grateful in this way you will not be able to accuse the opposition of not being constructive in the discussions, especially when it comes to the discussion of the budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25113	The word is made by MP Vojislav Seselj, president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25114	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Parliament, supporting the amendment, an explanation for the amendment of the People's MP Milorad Mircic, I must draw your attention to one final example. Last year, the interior minister announced that there are sponsors, donors who have provided large sums of money as rewards for a public award for the discovery of murderers, information about murders, etc. for a large number of liquidated faces. We didn't see it go through last year's budget items, because all these donations have to be expressed through the budget, even if it was just a budget transfer. That's not what happened. Maybe it's a little bit later forgotten, but you had to express it through next year's budget, because I'm looking for 27 million. ( Bozidar Djelic: it has been abolished. ) It was abolished, but before it was abolished, I submitted information on who killed Momir Gavrilovic. Goran Petrovic and Zoran Mijatovic, former Ubba chief and his deputy. I have submitted information that Stanko Subotic Cane Zhabac killed General Badža, organised the murder, and I have submitted information that Slavko Curuvija was killed by Chando, Jorgan, Miki Kurak and Romic, four of them and I am in charge of a lawsuit against the Republic of Serbia. I'm looking for 27 million dinars. Two court hearings have already been held. The court has declared the trial a secret because of the very grave seriousness of the information that is being handled there. The next hearing, I think finally, was scheduled in February. You'll come next year to pay me 27 million dinars, plus interest, which will be huge, plus court costs. That'll get you to 50 million dinars. There's no position here, you won't have anything to cover. I warn you, you will be in a position to be executed in the government of Serbia, in the office of the finance minister and so on. I won't give it up at any cost. You have to pay for it. It's a public promise of reward, it's right one of the strongest institutes, in private law. You promised that and it's like we signed a contract. It has the power of the contract with the state and you'll have to pay it off, and you'll have to show it, because he couldn't get the interior minister to call a reward, that the funds were from donations, and that money didn't go into account. Let's see who those donors were. They can't stay secret. I'm obliged to know who my money comes from. It's my money now, and I have the right to know who it comes from. You're going to have to show who the donors are and you're going to have to show up where that money was paid. The public promise of the prize should not be called if the money did not already exist. When the billing time comes, don't run away from me.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25115	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic, Adam Urosevic and Zivko Selakovic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? The word is from MP Zivko Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25116	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen Members of the Parliament, gentlemen of the Ministers, by amendment of the Assembly Group in Article 6. The bill is amended for basic purposes in the following economic classifications: 1) In the economic classification of 451 - Subsidy to non-financial corporations, the amount of 35,372.170,000 is replaced by 36,042.188,000. 2) In the economic classification 464 - Transfer to compulsory social insurance organisations, the amount of 67,198,287,000 is replaced by 68,198,287,000. Here's an explanation for this amendment. The proposed increase in the amount of funding in the budget for subsidies to non-financial corporations, as well as for transfers to compulsory social insurance organisations, provides for a reduction in the debt of the state towards agricultural producers in relation to the payment of arrears and payment of claims for certain agricultural products, primarily sugar tails. Given that this amendment proposes improving the terms of the solution, i.e. I believe that Mr Djelic should accept this amendment by the SSJ parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25117	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? The word comes from MP Dragan Markovic, president of the SSJ parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25118	Ladies and gentlemen, given that agriculture has entered the budget with only 3.2%, we think it's a shame and it's a great shame for farmers and agricultural producers. We ask to increase the amount of unpaid sugar tail for agricultural producers, for other agricultural products and for unpaid pensions. I just have to tell one minister, and last year I told him to explain to me how if there is a user and a taxpayer in one family, the user receives 900 dinars a month, that means 11,800 dinars, and the taxpayer pays 15,600 dinars. Why is that difference so much to the harm of this family? You didn't explain that to me last time, and I'm asking you to. Anyway, you forget that farmers don't have a regress, they don't have a vacation, they don't have winters, they don't have work suits. No one's taking care of them. When it comes to women in the country, they are also not in a position like women who are employed in factories. We of the Soviet Union hope to arrive very soon one day when we decide the laws. We will ask that all mothers who live in the country and deal in agriculture have the same rights as mothers who work in factories, in the city. Also, this amendment is related to Article 7. I'll talk about him later. So I want the minister to explain to me why these differences are when it comes to the user and the debtor and what about agricultural loans, Mr. Minister? I don't know any agricultural producers that got some agricultural credit. There are so many empty stables in Serbia. Agricultural producers want to work, but there's no credit. I expect you to answer that question, because that's what they're asking.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25119	Is anyone else applying for a word after this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zarko Obradović, Zoran Angelkovic, Ljubomir Mucic, Radojko Petrovic, Nebojsa Jović and Hranislav Peric. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Is there a word application for this amendment? The word has the People's MP Ljubomir Mucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25120	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Micic, informs you that I am using three plus three minutes by speaking in the first part about the general settings of the expenditure, namely the specific part of the budget relating to the allocation of funds totalling 255 billion dinars. We also tried, within 842 items and 37 sections, to streamline budget public spending, i.e. public spending, and to carry out part of the redistribution of public expenditure through individual positions within the same division, and also more division of the same economic classification. I can tell you that in that part, we have succeeded by reducing global budget spending by about 6.5 billion and reducing to 255 billion total budget expenditures, from 261 billion. We also tried to convince Minister Djelic, as finance minister, to show and be an example of the rationalisation of public spending, because only through the rationalisation of public spending can there be a reduction in the procedure from the economy and through the reduction and rationalisation of costs need to be redistributed within the global budgetary frameworks. In the same department of justice, I can't understand that the Justice Department is in charge of damages and damages done by the Justice Department and the government's units. We have suggested that this part of the funds, which is not small, as well as various specialised services, constant costs, occasional costs, travel costs, rationalise and propose one, at this time most needed, to defend Serbia and the Serb people from the forces they tried and tried to declare Serbian people as the source of all wickedness and as the source of evil in the previous century, in the Balkans. That's why we've proposed 50 million dinars for defence and cost, which are for gathering information to defend all The Hague indictees.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25121	Are you using the next three minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25122	I'm sorry, Mrs. Micic, so I said in the beginning, don't interrupt me and use three plus three minutes. Thank you for your warning, I'll move on. In the context of these global allocations of funds, we also have a rational proposal that funding should be redistributed within the Ministry of Finance and most of the funds directed to the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, to capital investments and to encourage employment production. Also, as a local patriot, and last night I used it, although I didn't get an answer, I proposed, and I agreed that the SPS parliamentary group, given that in 2003 a reduction in the rate of financial transactions was proposed further by one-third, that the revenue on this basis was unreally low to the proposed budget of 3,800,000, of 10,000, as achieved in this year, if the funds were reduced by one-third, could be 6 or 7 billion, but could not be one-third of the 10 billion, or 3,800,000, respectively, and we suggested that, in addition to these funds, which were used to cover the budget deficit and expenditure in the budget, that there could be no one-third of the district in the Colombian district for the removal of earthquakes, the estimated funds of 1,500,000, instead of 700,000, as planned in this plan. I would really not explain this at this time that up to now about 35% of the facilities damaged, individual housing, from earthquakes, rehabilitated or built new ones, but it is a dangerous claim in the reason that at this point in time by reducing these funds in the next year 2004, the source that once existed, or contributed to the removal of earthquakes in the Kolubara district, given that, in the memorandum on the implementation of fiscal and economic policy for 2003 and the following year, is envisaged to reduce the financial transaction's contribution, and in the coming year 2004, the abolition, as well as the termination of the work of the Directorate established under the Government of the Republic of Serbia's Regulation, for the deployment of funds and the removal of earthquakes in the Kolubara district.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25123	I'm warning you, time's over.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25124	And finally, I call on the MPs that we have really followed all the provisions and instructions, the legal ones, and in a comprehensive way we have tried to redistribute some of the funds and to focus that part where it is most needed, given some legal basis, on which we have identified the sources of funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25125	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. ) Article 7. The amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Vukic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There's a word from MP Alexander Vukitch.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25126	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 7, in which I am asking that instead of the amount of 261,501,819.000, the amount stands at 192,732,942,522 dinars. This is in line with the policy of the SRS and with what we demanded yesterday in the principle debate, which is a more restrictive budget. We didn't ask to transfer special funds, especially money to give this or that football club, this or that organization, the association, etc. We are looking for a more restrictive budget, because we believe that this is a condition without which Serbia cannot progress. We asked for this in particular, and I hope that amendments will be accepted to Articles 4 and 6 which reduce the total budget expenditure, and that my amendment will and how it makes sense. The government responded to this amendment and said that the structure of budget expenditure is in direct function of economic reform and economic recovery, and now I wonder whether economic reforms, recovery of our economy, and these costs, and just before Minister Djelic told us that the costs within the Ministry of Finance, travel costs, the costs of the entire government, government members. What is the cost of the Ministry of Economic Relations with abroad, for travel, of 28,500,000? What are those costs? So where are these people going? What do these people do, who are these people, where do they cost so much? What will happen to this minister, who is the worker's oath, as President Seselj said yesterday, the worker's oath, the travel expenses of 5,200,000, from where? That it's for inspection -- what is the Ministry of Economic Relations' inspection with abroad, 28,500,000, from where people come from, every day to go to Toronto and Sydney, so it can't go that far. Where'd you get that money? Come out, Mr. Djitsu, so tell me - that's for it and that. I say there's no answer. That's why that amendment to Natasha Jovanovic, which we asked for more money to come to agriculture, is because there is no answer to the question - why 28.5 million for travel expenses. As for privatisation, thanks to Stevi Kesejić, who brought me this, this is a set of criminal charges material, administrative dispute lawsuits, because of the way you're trying to privatise the sugar shop in Red. One of the only bidders in the tender. Incidentally, they know each other well with Prime Minister Aleksandra Vlahovic. I think it's called (the foreign name - it doesn't understand). They ask that what Sugar is doing in four days of production in Red, they get the whole factory, that they get the majority package of actions and that they can do whatever they want and how they want, and you didn't know and did well enough to calculate how much and how much of the privatisation of the money will come and how much they could focus in a different way. There's no focus on development investment, not even knowing, and it's impossible to calculate how much it's going to be, because if there's more of these friends, and more of these costs, then there's certainly much less money coming from privatisation. By accepting this amendment, we would actually bring down this unreal budget, and I call on the finance minister to come out and say what costs are 28.5 million, and for the travel expenses of the Ministry of Economic Relations with the abroad? If the travels are members of the government, already within the Ministry of Finance, who travels, where travels, and for what reason travels? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25127	Anybody else answer for a word? There is a word from MP Vojislav Seselj, president of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25128	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I support the amendment of MP Alexander Vukic. I must express regret that the government is not responding at all to the criticism of opposition MPs regarding this Budget Law. As part of this article of the Law, where we propose a reduction in the total expenditure for a significant sum, you have not explained to us how it is possible that 7.5 billion are allocated to services per contract, and nearly 5 billion more for some other type of service, a total of 12 billion? None of you are going to explain what kind of machines the President of the Republic needs, so 90 million dinars stand out for them. Would you like to open a tobacco factory in the Serbian presidency? What are the machines? Come on, say, what equipment is needed by the President of the Republic, from the aspect of its constitutional jurisdiction, which costs 90 million dinars. Come on, get out, what kind of machines are these, what are tractors, vans, tobacco factory, beer factory, what else could it be? How do you explain, for example, it's one of the most impressive items here, 285 million dinars, contract service, Ministry of Education. Yesterday, Gašo Knezevic says, it is for various seminars, additional education, etc. This is what the communists called permanent or ideological political education. 285 million dinars, count the ministers as much as it would be for an educational worker, if you paid them 285 million dinars as a new year's raise, as much as you have in Serbia of educational workers, you'd get something, if it were 1,000 dinars more or less than that, it doesn't matter. Don't waste your money like this. Yesterday we thoroughly criticised the issues of these NGOs, for which 800 million dinars were planned. You were trying to explain that it's not all those new-compromised NGOs, it's some other institutions we know by another name. Now, with the minister of religion, we see that it is planned to donate to NGOs 159 million dinars and the minister yesterday explains that they are churches, monasteries, mosques. We are not going to come up with a situation that now you mark the Serbian Orthodox Church, the Islamic Religious Community, the Roman Catholic Church, Protestant churches, Lutheran, Calvinist, etc. Don't, it doesn't make sense. Serbian Orthodox Church -- an NGO. NGOs Orthodox, NGOs Islamic, NGOs Lutheran, NGOs Roman Catholic, it doesn't make sense. You should have mentioned here, the old temples and Orthodox and Islamic, and Roman Catholic and Protestant, Jewish, so much money, those items to express, not NGOs, so the shame of our people, the shame of the anger of these traditional religious communities that have existed for thousands of years to now call them NGOs.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25129	The Minister of Finance, Mr Bozidar Djelic, called for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25130	Okay, I see we're still having a little trouble with budget accounting. We have, like this, after World War II, the United Nations, the idea was that some richer nations were giving something to help, some poorer nations, and they had a hard start to a big job that led to the standardisation of accounting in the domain of the state, in a broader understanding. The system was perfected and when this government started to work, we were the last country in Europe that had no public finances, which were arranged in this way. So if you have some names that are a little specific, and Mr Djindjic explained yesterday that simply, it's one of the parts of opening the world, which is given to our public finances, we call them actually, as they are called everywhere -- NGOs and I can say that there is no here, it's Professor Simonović yesterday and he asked about the rebalancing, there's no one in that department of any NGO in what we've been given in the last few years, but we do, if you look at the division of the Ministry of Finance, it's a term, up to the last dinar. There are you, political organisations that have MPs in this esteemed home, the red cross, the fighting, or the association of fighters, and if you look at other ministries, that is, or that association that Minister Matkovic was talking about yesterday, these are associations of blind, deaf, many of what she has been doing for years and what needs to be done. In the Ministry of Faith, the minister spoke yesterday, these are some things that have been financed before, but there's a good thing about this accounting. Thanks to this classification and position, the opposition can ask what he split up, and not as before, if there were wages and the rest, and then there was no way to talk about it, simply, the executive authority would never have any sortings about it. Two more things, as regards the contract, the contract services, the specialized services, there we seem to have quite well explained both yesterday and various members of the government have explained in detail that it concerns all of that and it is thus classified, and where services are sought from someone who is not constantly employed by the Ministry. We cannot, on the one hand, have parliamentary groups that say - there is still a need to reduce the civil Corps, it is necessary to deberocrat Serbia, as we often hear, and on the other hand, that they are opposed to some specific needs, that the state should use the services of some others. In fact, much of it, if you take specialized services, most of it, it's nothing but contracts with our scientific institutions. The other thing, if you look at the contracts, there's the witches, there's lawyers, when citizens don't have the money to defend themselves in court, that's all they need to secure one normal funding of our country. And, in the end, we don't plan a combination with the President of the Republic, in any case, that building, which for years, I would say, is no longer the same use, as it should have by some constitutional arrangement, it's quite downhill, and we have to say that if you look at it, it's not a machine, it's equipment, it's a building beyond any standard, and it has to be thoroughly renovated to be in use at all. There are no machines, it's equipment, it's being thrown, I repeat, if someone wants to go against the United Nations classification, let them say that, but that division in that position, if there's some equipment, there's telecommunications equipment and everything that needs to be provided for that building, that it works normally, and that's there. For decades in other countries, it's been put on the same line as machines, machines and equipment. Last thing, as far as travel goes, I want to answer all the questions, our country has a huge image deficit, as the West says, or very little is known about the potential and potential for investment in us. The government of the Republic of Serbia in these last years, in two years, has done so much through numerous contacts, mostly in the country, and to some extent abroad, to show in more detail what investment opportunities these are. I can say, thanks to the action, especially to the Ministry of Economic Relations and Foreign Affairs, many of the contacts that were held in various months, it's one thought-out action, to get close to the opportunities for all investment in our country, and we are in this situation that, what was almost zero three years ago, or two years ago, and then $126 million will be between $400 and $600 million, investment in our country, and next year we are forecasting for investments in various kinds of our country about a billion or 2 billion German marks. In return, compare, it's a ministry that has exactly that function, reformed with this key function, and this animation of these investors, and I think that the amount that is envisaged is not too large, and we have to have minimum investment on our part to make investments come. These are very small amounts if we compare them to other countries in the environment. Let's not forget, we're in competition for these investments with all the other countries. We cannot expect to have significant results in attracting investment if we ourselves do not determine the minimum amounts that would be similar to being able to attract these investments. Of course, if you look at the positions and we'll see when we get to the final account for this year, we'll see that in many cases these positions are not even spent. No one will travel without being fully deserved, in the sense that it is useful for the function for which it is intended. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25131	I thank Mr. Secretary. I'm setting a break to 15.00 hours. [[After break – 15.50.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the debate in detail on the draft budget bill for 2003. In order for the session to continue, please see if we have a quorum. I find that we have a quorum for both discussion and decision-making. To Article 7. Amendment of Susa was brought together by MPs Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic, Adam Urosevic and Zivko Selakovic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does an amdnman's representative want a word? Here you go. The word has a National MP, Petar Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25133	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Soviet Union has tabled an amendment to Article 7 and it refers to Section 7 which treats the Ministry of Finance, Section 12, which treats the funds in the Ministry of Agriculture. In Section 8 of section 464 of the mandatory social insurance transfer, we requested that the amount foreseen in the budget of the Republic of Serbia be increased by 2003 and that in Section 12 of classification 451 relating to subsidies to non-financial corporations also increased the amount foreseen by the draft budget law for 2003, while adding a new indent 19, which treats the payment of the lost debt to sugar beet producers. Why did we ask to increase the amount of Section 8 in the Ministry of Finance in the transfer of mandatory social security? At this point, the state of Serbia owes the farmers, i.e. those who made a pension under the laws of the earlier period, when they were literally forced to accept the obligation to pay contributions to pension and disability insurance, and if many did not want to and now the state, for what they were forced to pay contributions, owes 15 pensions. In the 2003 draft budget law, only 12 pensions are expected to be paid. Therefore, the state does not foresee to reduce debt to pensioners, agricultural producers, and these are old and exhausted persons, who are most often unable to support themselves, and in this way they are brought into a completely unequal position with other pensioners. It also raises the question - what will happen to those agricultural producers who are entitled to pension this year, and that right will literally not happen for 15 months, when they come to pay off pensions they are entitled to. For these reasons, the Soviet Union considers this to be a small expense to the government of the Republic of Serbia but would be a major contribution to improving the material situation of pensioners who have rightly achieved this as agricultural producers. That is why we believe that this amendment should be adopted and that these persons should be allowed to make regular pension payments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25134	National MP Dragan Markovic came to the floor.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25135	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Petar Petrovic read the amendment to Article 7 submitted by the Soviet Union. I don't know if you've got the Minister's correction. Yeah. ) We ask in this amendment to pay for sugar tails to farmers who have not received money for their turnips. That's not a big number, 45 million 379 thousand dinars or 4,400 producers and 150 ransom places. The government needs to allocate funds and settle these agricultural producers, and it can make up for it when she sells the Tsuprian. It's about producers from the territory from Kruševec to Povorec. It means that a large number of manufacturers expect it. They sent me more letters and I sent a letter to Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic. He hasn't answered anything, but I expect the minister to accept this amendment. I'll tell the Minister what a farmer needs to invest when it comes to sugar tails, but he doesn't listen. Let me tell you what a farmer needs to invest when it comes to sugar tails, and how many times he has to go to the field, only if he's sown a hectare of sugar tails. So, first he has to go and the pores; he needs to sink; he has to drop the artificial fertilizer, presumptive; he has to sow the sugar tail; he has to go down; he has to go over it multiple times, the spray also has to be done when it comes to sugar tail, then there's the extraction; so on. cleaning; the villa removes the Minister's sugar tail, so that you know, the one with two horns, loads into a tractor and drives to a buying-out place that is on average two to five kilometers away from the farmer's field. Now, you see how many times a agricultural producer goes to the field and what the cost is. Given that he receives a salary once a year, when it comes to agricultural production, agricultural cultures, we expect the Soviet Union, since the Minister of Agriculture is not there that you will accept it, and as far as the proposed amendments are concerned, they are gone. When it comes to these three agenda points, as well as this last -- the 2003 budget for the Soviet Union will not vote for the budget, nor for the three previous agenda points, because this budget is not useful for Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25136	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) Article 7. The amendment was submitted by MP Ljubo Drag Grbić. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) Article 7. The amendment was submitted by MP Meho Omerovic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here's a word from MP Meho Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25137	The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. On behalf of the SDP parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 7. Proposal for a law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia in Section 15 of the positions 376 concerning subsidies to non-financial corporations. And that in the column -- the funds of the budget that predicts that, instead of 10 billion dinars, the government has proposed, an amount of 13 billion 600 million dinars. The essence of this amendment is, if you have the patience to look at the materials, what you see is an increase in expenditure, and that's for subsidies to the ZTP Belgrade and the Captain. The essence of this which I will keep your attention briefly refers to the situation in the ZTP Belgrade. A few things are very important. In all, the projected budget funds for the 10 billion dinar ZTP are insufficient, as the request for the ZTP-aboves at 13 billion. I would remind Mr. Minister, fellow MPs that the amount was set at one of the joint meetings held by representatives of the Ministry of Finance and Economy, the Ministry of Transport, Telecommunications and Management of the ZTP Belgrade. Another reason is that these funds are allocated in this way of 10 billion not only for profits and liquid railway reproduction, without some investment investments related to railways, wagons and locomotives. In what state is Serbia's railway today, I will illustrate with only a few data. I know you're too busy these days with numbers, because the budget of the Republic of Serbia is simply with numbers only, but I'm going to remind you of a few disastrous facts that are notorious truth. What's this about? So 55% of Serbia's railways were built in the 19th century, and now it seems to me the 21st century. So in the last 25 years, one legacy that the government of the Republic of Serbia and we as the new democratic authority have inherited, has been remounted only 608km from the estimated 3,200 fewer than is necessary. Only 29% of total railway length in Serbia has been electrified, and over the past 10 years the inventory park has been reduced by 12.6% in locomotives, in passenger cars by as much as 55%, in freight cars by 12.4%, and freight traffic which is the main source of rail-transport company income, of 14.800 cars currently has only 4,000 cars a day. When deciding on the amendment, I think it should be borne in mind that the subsidies that the government has provided for 10 billion for 2002 have also been transferred for what is proposed for the next year 2003. So the other subsidies remained at the same level. This would mean that the real amount of subsidies for the ZTP and the Captain in this case will be identical to the one that was in 2002, and in the design of the draft budget, I would like to remind, an inflation effect of 9, 10% of the social product is envisaged. I'm asking why these parameters are not taken into account at the amount of the subsidy and for the railway-transport company...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25138	I'm warning you of an overrun of the time allowed.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25139	I end immediately, as the Committee on Finance and Government, and its representative, the finance and economy minister, did not accept this amendment, I hope that because of the very disastrous situation on our railways, MPs will have understanding and vote in favour of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25140	Finance and Economy Minister Bozidar Djelic reportedly.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25141	Thank you. I would like to comment on this amendment, because it concerns a very important segment of our society, the railways and the ZTP. First, formally, we cannot accept this amendment, because it is not written in accordance with the Budgetary System Act, which states that when amendments are passed to increase some expenditures, it should be proposed at the same time where this money is to be taken and which was not the case in this amendment. So, for formal reasons, it can't be accepted. I think what's more important, which is the essence of things. You got a few minutes ago what would be the third and final version of the final bill for 2001. I'd like to ask you, if you'd like to take a look at it, at the end of that document, you have a contribution, which is the Annex 1 that represents the GTP in 2001. There's one thing we see that's very instructive and very painful. You will notice that in 2001 the revenues from the ZTP budget were 7.7 billion dinars and total revenues from the transport of 3.2 billion dinars. So, two-thirds of what is the income of the ZTP, and that's tax money, from our citizens. So here's where our 2001 railroad is. Unfortunately, 2002 is not better. So look at the expenditures and notice, the commitments for workers' earnings mean for the gross salaries of employees of the ZTP is 6.2 billion dinars. In 2001 and 2002, a bad habit was created. Budget subsidies, literally, and that's how it turned, cover the labour costs of the ZTP. The ZTP is not and is not the idea of becoming a budgetary user or of people working in the ZTP becoming officials who expect the budget to be elected every 15 days and to pass on money to pay their salaries. I have to say, it's very clear in that meeting with the ZTP that next year it's going to be a different mold. This means that it is required next year that the ZTP, like all other public enterprises, begin to provide its salary fund as the beginning of a minimum of its own income, and the money coming from the budget to be something that should be the future of the ZTP, those remonts that are necessary. I'd say, that change that's been accepted on the side and leadership and unions, as something that's necessary for them to finally be who they are, i.e. Public enterprise was also one of the things that motivated us to keep this volume of funds at the level of those 10 billion. You'll notice, that's the farthest effort this budget makes for any public enterprise. Of course, that goguerre is very tight. He implies that if next year, this esteemed house discusses the railway law that has already been passed here for adoption, I'm sure there will be a moment for a somewhat wider debate over our railway. I expect next year to be a year of deep transformation of this very important transport company, because our structure of transport and transport in the country is not rational, it goes too far across the road. A lot of things that in a more orderly and normal country should go across the rails, it goes across the road today, and it develops a travel network and requires additional expenditure. So it's got to be a higher percentage to switch to the railroad. The next year must be a year of deep restructuring of the ZTP. It also involves some painful things, such as the reduction of the volume of labour, and that involves a possible review of the network itself, and it dates back to the 19th century. It is necessary to examine much more carefully and analytically, what is the cost-effectiveness of various travel networks and to consider possible and this restructuring. I am using this opportunity just to say that and about this report, this version, and I hope that it will be final by the time the final bill for 2001, includes everything the MPs asked for during the debate on this item of the agenda. It is detailed, which was spent on by the South Serbian Coordination Centre. You can see what that's spent on. Also, traffic, and what I was talking about, roads, urbanism and economic subsidies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25142	Is anyone else applying for a word after this amendment? The word has been given by MP Vojislav Seselj, as president of the parliamentary group. After him, MP Ljubomir Mucic, as an authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25143	It is a pleasure to meet you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, which is an extended debate following this amendment. We had to have that debate yesterday or the day before yesterday. We are now divided into 15 minutes ago. This is a total of 58 densely complex pages. Why isn't this split before the 2001 final account agenda? In 15 minutes, no one is able to read the fastest thing in the world, I can't read it. Then why should we discuss it? It says here December 13th. This arrived today in the National Assembly, 13th 12th is under protocol. It was split 15 minutes ago, and now the minister is making an argument. That can't be any argument. If you thought on this basis you could convince us to vote for the final bill, you just now convinced us we shouldn't vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25144	Mr Bozidar Djelic, the finance minister, called for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25145	This was, of course, related to this amendment. I just wanted to illustrate what happened in the ZTP in 2001, what a real situation it is, and it's very difficult in this public enterprise and it hasn't changed much. Unfortunately, not this year, but we expect it to change next year. The occasion was an amendment. As for the report itself, I must note that it simply shows the reactivity of the executive authority, which takes this time much more seriously what this esteemed home says. There were further questions during yesterday's debate, and at the very request of the MPs, we added answers last night and last night to those questions we had yesterday. You don't have to read it for the next 15 minutes, of course. However, we hope that this reading and the explanations will further motivate that when there is a vote for that final account, which will probably be next week, a number of MPs will decide to vote for the final account as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25146	The word is by MP Ljubomir Mucic, an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25147	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary club will vote in favour of the proposed amendment, given that the initiatives by the railways and the railway union have arrived late at our parliamentary club. Otherwise, we would prepare a real amendment that would contain this other side, where we could reduce funds to the heart of certain categories in the 2003 budget. I think that everywhere in the world, rail and railways are subsidizing, so that's the case with us, and this concept also fits into our efforts to reconstruct and build railway infrastructure, as one of the carriers of traffic infrastructure in our country and in general construction. My proposal is that, with the adoption of this amendment, it is currently through the reduction of the current budget reserve or that the Government, within the framework of the budget reserve, which is the position of 263499, temporarily covers this part of the funds, and in the first rebalancing, that is to be verified.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25148	There are no more entries for the word after this amendment. National MPs Branislav Ivkovic, Dragan Tomic, Stevan Guduric, Zoran Nikolic and Vladimir Garčević submitted the 7th amendment together. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Dragan Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25149	Dear Members of the People's Parliament, in Article 7, I asked for donations to NGOs to be deleted from the area of physical culture, since 223 million dinars were identified here. The government of the Republic of Serbia's budget memorandum does not explain why these funds are defined, and it is evident that more than one position has been granted to NGOs. If this 223m, or close to 4m euros, concerns grants to the Yugoslav teams, successful athletes, etc., it would make full sense, but do not have sports associations, football clubs, basketball clubs, handball team, male, female or any other Yugoslav team or individual competing in individual sports, the character of NGOs. These are the absolute representatives of the state, representing this country, Yugoslavia and Serbia in front of other countries in sports competitions. It was never baptized under NGOs, but it was clearly intended. I'm saying this for the following reasons, because it's visible there for reasons, when it comes to foreign donations that a large part of these funds went to humanitarian society and other NGOs, who were supposed to educate the population, so most of that education was directed towards us, as citizens of Serbia, to feel less Serbian citizens, to listen more to the international community, to show us that we are less valuable and that we are less capable or involved than anyone else. Since I think that these NGOs or some Kandic women, Vuco, Biserko or others who have been engaged in reducing our value as individuals have failed to do so, and I don't think the character of that kind of funding of these organizations is necessary, because it's a waste of funds in vain.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25150	Is anyone else applying for a word after this amendment? The word is by MP Branislav Ivkovic, president of the National Socialists Group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25151	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Minister Djelic, by coming to the post of finance minister, introduced a more precise review of the division by individual ministries, but many of the positions that were not on the one hand so far, but we must say that he has introduced one great unusuality on the other hand, which is that a huge amount of funds is located in one single position without criteria and priorities on the basis of which these funds are distributed. In particular, in his ministry we saw in the 2001 final account the position of 3 billion dinars for social programs, and unfortunately, although financial discipline has charged all 100% of the funds, only 450 million has been spent, so six times less than it could have been. On the other hand, the position of the NGO appears, without any precise definition of which NGOs are involved. Surely all of us in this room would love to be about cultural art societies, amateur sports collectives, and then each of us would vote to spend these 300 million dinars for these purposes, that youth has something to do. Unfortunately, this position of the NGO is being run through one-six divisions across different ministries and gives us the right for the resolution ministers under the notion of NGOs to observe exactly what MP National Socialists MP Dragan Tomic said, such as Sonja Biserko, Vuco, and not to speak to all those ladies who are very concerned about Serbian citizens as they listen to them via television. Therefore, I would ask MPs to accept the amendment of the National Socialists and to delete the position of the NGO or to require the Government of the Republic of Serbia to define more precisely what purpose it is. If it's for amateur sports, amateur cultural arts societies, if it's for scouts, for everything that youth does on the right track, then congratulations and should be the means. However, this hidden right gives us the right to think that it is the means that will go where a good part of Serbia's citizens would not want. As far as the budget vote itself is concerned, I think we should be honest and tell the citizens of Serbia what is happening in this House. Paraliamentary parliamentary groups whose candidates for the president of the Republic of Serbia have pledged not to appear with this requirement for the government to collapse in this House. Obviously, they have a dictation and perhaps on the side that these moves must not be drawn, but they do not hesitate to say that some others are possible government associates. All in all, it is talking about the budget in this House, to be fair to the citizens of Serbia, who voted in favour of Djindjic's budget, who voted against the vote's budget for Kostunica. What you're doing, be men, come out nicely for this pay phone, ask for a government shift. The Socialist People's Party will support you in this, but immediately there will be extraordinary parliamentary elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25152	Is there anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? The word has a finance minister, Mr Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25153	Once again, NGOs, that term has one meaning in the budget classification of the United Nations. This means everything other than the government very precisely, meaning everything other than what is within the state and what is financed from the budget is to be found here and there, as I have already said several times, there are political organisations, there are cultural artistic societies, there are some associations that have shown their social need and which are already traditionally funded from these funds. Of course, there are no more things here like FONAS or some NGOs that were nothing but the branches of some political parties.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25154	There are no more entries for the word after this amendment. To Article 7. The amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Predrag Mijailovic and Dragoljub Vojnovic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The word is by MP Predrag Mijailovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25155	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, we have tabled an amendment to Article 7. Split 24 in position 662 under economic classification 425, under current rights and maintenance, to change the amount of 10 million dinars to 50 million dinars. Gentlemen, the MPs are referring to the work of buildings, sick rooms, setting conditions for a sick man. Is 10 million enough? It's not enough, and it's not enough to take care of the clinic where it is and where our minister came from. I know, and the finance minister must know that a sick man must first lie in a nice and comfortable bed and have a normal sanitary knot. We now have one sanitary node at hospitals and clinics on 8 to 15 patients and 8 to 10 patients in one room. That can't be allowed. This little 40 million-dollar repair is nothing, but still to show he's taking care of a sick man. Position 654 under economic classification 411, is about salaries, allowances and employees' fees, from 87,646.077, is changed to 117 million dinars. Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd like to warn you of something here. Gentlemen of the People, once again I warn you that we here in the Serbian Parliament a year ago had the Health Protection Act, where I warned you that you should adopt an amendment that requires the difference between overtime and rain. We didn't vote with just one vote. That's why many departments, including the pleasure department -- child surgery, ran out of duty. Gentlemen Members of the Parliament, I must say, since the president of the municipality appears, the municipality has singled out, I think it's 60 million, but what about those municipalities they couldn't single out? There's only about 30 million in demand here so we can all have the same protection. Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have submitted another part of the amendment to position 644 - Transfer on other levels of government, of 500 million, to change to 600 million. It's for the social protection of refugees and exiled persons. We know that there is social justice in Serbia, and we have provided insurance for these evasive people. That's why the Social Security Fund is worth about four billion dinars. I must tell you that in this part, the minister himself has asked that four billion dinars be granted to him, and he is not given. Still, we need to think about whether we can keep going with this social fund of ours, and they've escaped and exhausted, which we certainly need, but we won't be able to do either. Position 655 - Transfer organisation of mandatory social security. This is where we raised about 210 million. It's for unsecured faces. Here we have to say that it is necessary to leave one item where people have to have a certain amount of medicine, where they cannot and must not interrupt therapy, for example, for polycytostatic therapy. If we do, we better not have started it, and usually that therapy costs between 1,000 and 100,000 dinars or more. (President: People's Parliament, I warn you that you've exceeded allowed time, twice.) I did, but I have to say about this part of health care. I'll say it one more time. He asks the minister why I didn't transfer it from one thread to another. I'll tell you now. Let's say, yesterday we gave it to RTS 2,600,000. Man, the enjoyings don't care when to follow the street in Belgrade, in the morning. Let's just commercialize the RTS, but give us health care. That's where we'll all work together, because our dinars are here too.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25156	The word has a finance minister, Mr Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25157	Ladies and gentlemen, I took the floor just to comment on this amendment and perhaps only a little bit wider on what's in the health budget. Of course, for two years, not through some floscule, winged, paroles, but through cold figures, this government and this home that voted the first two budgets, hopefully this third one, has proved to be giving the right priority to health care. Why? Look at the doctor's salary. Doctor's salary, if you look at what it was like in January 2001, what it is now, it's still not big, but it's twice as big. It is twice as large and through various changes that existed in specific conditions of work, grooming and coefficients and some supplements, we can say that the material position of healthcare professionals is improved. 2. We've found a very problematic situation in the drug domain. She had the elements of crime. That's what the judicial authorities will keep looking for. Of course, when you see that the former director of RZZO, i.e. the Republic Health Organization, has accounts in Switzerland and that some major drug dealers are investing hundreds of thousands of marks in cash in that account in Switzerland, then we see that it was there, and it was very deep, one of the ugliest crimes in our country. On the other hand, a new system this year, a new information system and a new way of issuing prescriptions for medicines, which initially encountered some resistance, led to, for example, At the Kragujevac centre, those people who worked there were able to reduce by 36% drug consumption and make the supply much better and get the patients what they needed. Finally, about half a billion dinars this year will be spent on what is necessary. I agree with you, Your Honor, the cathode situation is in the equipment of our hospitals, wet knots, and everything that in many cases raises questions about the hygiene conditions in which our fellow citizens are being treated. That's a big problem. That's what we started working on. Dear doctor and colleague, you can not forget that we worked together this year in Uzica and that after 12 years of working together, not only the budgets of the Republic of Serbia, but also the generous people in the region, some entrepreneurs and individuals, opened a few weeks ago, after 12 years, that surgical block that was enjoyed so long. This situation is now being repeated everywhere in our territory. As a result, this budget envisioned as much as 1.5 billion dinars for that equipment, so in many more hospitals, in many more homes of health, we will have much better conditions, much better equipment, much better conditions for patients and much better conditions for healthcare professionals. Finally, you're right when you're looking for funds for refugees. I can say that one of the most important innovations in this budget is that for the first time since these terrible disasters occurred on our premises and since so many hundreds of thousands of our citizens became refugees, 1.6 billion dinars are in this budget for their health insurance. We didn't have it in last year's budget, and it's a great honor, because that way our community shows refugees that they're not second-class citizens, that those who are in trouble today and can't pay the health fund, our community hasn't forgotten them. She predicted this element of solidarity so that, when treated in our hospitals, it was not a single debt accumulated in the health fund and then asked for health care, but something that was legally arranged by some normal mechanism, and implemented. That's why that 1,600,000 means not only more money for our hospitals, but means, I think, and dignity for refugees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25158	I thank Mr. Secretary. The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25159	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, when we first met with statistics textbooks, one of the first axioms we encountered was that statistics can't be trusted at first sight, as statistics can be a means of achieving truth, winning truth, revealing truth, so statistics can be queen of lies. When Minister Djelic says that medical salaries are twice as high, if he thinks about 2001, it is certainly not true, and compared to 2000 they may be three times higher, but they are certainly not more than three times. But the budget is seven times higher. Then the key question is why the medical salaries didn't follow the budget, why they weren't seven times bigger, but 2000. Or, if they can't follow the budget, why didn't the medical salary follow the electricity price? If the current is six times more expensive, why aren't the medical salaries six times bigger? Why aren't they six times bigger in education? Why are all state sector employees' salaries not six times higher if the electricity price is six times higher? Why there's no proportion, it's a key question, and all of this is an empty story. You shoot numbers, those numbers don't mean anything, because the pay is measured by its purchasing power. You can change the consumer basket, as you do, so the cheapest stuff you put in the basket and say, increased purchasing power. There is no consumer basket today that will rule out electricity prices and utility prices. Earlier we had the cheapest electricity price in the world, so the consumer basket could ignore the price of electricity, and today, in every consumer basket, you have to insert the average number of monthly kilowatts spent in each household. Without it, there's no consumer basket. That's what people feel every day, you can't convince people now that their standard of living is better, when it's not. It's not true he's better. No one, except for the supreme government, because only functional salaries followed the cost of living, and of course, mobsters, whose hands are all within reach. Nobody's better today than it was two years ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25160	The Minister of Finance, Mr Bozidar Djelic, called for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25161	Okay, obviously we don't only have problems with budget accounting, but we also have problems with regular numbers. If you take the salary, and it's not statistics, but something a doctor would take home, in dinars, 7.330 dinars in January 2001, in November 2002, 15.074 dinars. It's not statistics, it's money they took away, and it's accounted for every 15 days as pay, and it's taken home. If we look at the price of electricity, one of the most unpopular measures that this government has had to withdraw, around which I get a few dozen letters a day from citizens who say -- I support reforms, I see things going better, they go better, they go to me, but explain to me why you had to raise the price of electricity? This government, unlike those demagogues, who led our country into a abyss, and not only in the foreign policy sense, not only in a safe sense, not only in the economic sense, but also in the financial sense, has to put Serbia on its feet, and the EPS, which at this point represents a difficulty for our industry between 20% and 30%, what industry is, directly or indirectly, which in its supply chain, can employ some 30 to 40,000 people, for ten years the company was an instrument of social peace, bought on religion, "account without innect", when not even 10% of the necessary funds for its remont. And what happened then -- then one plant would take spare parts from others, so when it wasn't possible anymore, then under political pressure suppliers had to work without being paid on the ebud. And what, then, they (there you have the Gossu and the MIN and our large businesses in all parts of our country) were unable to pay their workers, nor were they able to pay their debts. So we inherited great indifference. According to our estimates, even one third of this indifference comes because EPS has not worked on some more normal basis. And not only that, some smart guy remembered to issue bonds to pay for our pensioners, because of course, he didn't have the money for it, and that smart guy didn't provide on the straight side what you see in this budget today, that's money to service those bonds. Now, that smart guy forgot that when one obligation is made, there's got to be money for his service. It's no easier than printing money, but it's money too, those bonds, those bonds are just printing money and a big dubious, which is being inserted into the EPS. And that's why we found this company in a catastrophic state. Look at the budget this year, after not two years, it's standing on its feet, and you see that budget, it's numbers, it's not rhetoric, it's just a few hundred million dinars, so it can continue to function normally. As for the standard of our lives, look at all the polls. Of course, one quarter of our people say they're better, even if they're worse, but three quarters say they're doing the same thing, or the latest polls show that between 30% and 40% say they're doing better. Because the figures are there, not only the minimum consumer basket, but also the consumer loans, which were zero months ago. Now, every month, it's 1.500,000 thousand dinars of consumer credit. There's no city, there's no neighborhood where at least some families aren't in some better shape right now, it's exactly financial, they come up with these consumer loans that they can pay out of their salary. There are fewer and fewer people in our country of social cases, more and more people can live solidly on their salary, more and more Serbia is normalising, more and more Serbia is starting to look like a normal country. We should not be disturbed, why does it bother those who are only affected by the crisis, the cloudy times, and it does not suit them when Serbia is back on its feet, then we will all live normally, some of the budgets, and some of their work in the private sector. Now, that's the Serbia we're all fighting for together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25162	Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) National MP Dragan Rafaelovic, written on December 12, 2002, informs the National Assembly that he is withdrawing the amendment to Article 7. It's a bill of law. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Velimir Simonovic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He has the word MP Velimir Simonovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25163	Ladies and gentlemen, my amendment, given what our Rules of Procedure is, there are actually three parts, that would be three amendments, if that were possible under the Rules of Procedure. So I hope I'm not interrupted after three minutes, it'll take me at least five, six minutes, to say about each amendment at least two sentences. The first part of the amendment refers to Serbia's Seismological Institute. It's a small, but significant institution whose budget does not normally exceed 15 million a year. In rebalancing for 2002, they had a 30% budget cut and they couldn't get some equipment they planned even from their own funds, which they themselves earned. I suggest that they increase the item for equipment and machines, because if it is not done now, then they will be able to buy equipment eventually in 2004, if they enter a budget then. However, truth be told, Mr Djelic, and I cannot complain about the co-operation between us as long as it took for this time, he as a minister, and I as an MP, promised that these were small sums that are being dealt with here, that he would solve it in the course of the year. I respect that, of course, I have no doubt that Mr. Secretary will do so. The second part of the amendment, however, is very important, it is about larger numbers, it is about the Commissioner for Refugees. Obligations to refugees only exist for their health care are huge, there is an increase of 220 to 660 million, and there is a debt, because since 1996 there has been no position in the budget for these purposes, for these purposes, so there has been a debt of 1.650,000. It's very important, therefore, that we have health care for refugees. A third and another part of it, the same items for refugees, is about what is required to increase, I'm looking for an increase in the part that relates to building construction facilities. You know, ladies and gentlemen, all very well, that there are still a lot of refugees in those collective accommodations where very poor living is, and we have to do as a state something to get people out of those joints there and at least where they live and we have to provide them with some apartments and some other accommodations, because we have to be aware that most of the refugees or at least a big part of it won't go back to where they came from. For that matter, Mr. Minister has drawn attention to the fact that a loan is expected from a European bank to build apartments for refugees. However, this has been discussed since October 2001, I have had additional information from the Commissioner, that the Vice-President of the Federal Government, Mr Labus, has not yet received experts from the bank to discuss the loan, and why, he is self-sufficient. There's a part of why a loan can't be spent, and that's buying, buying, or renting for several years of peasant estates that are completely free, about 500,000 for a single household. That's where you could settle for refugee families, start living off their jobs, not donations and welfare. I think there's something that needs to be increased, too, because foreign lenders don't give so-called. credits, because they're afraid to change the social, ethnic composition of the population, and that's what they're very worried about, our ethnic composition. The last part of the amendment, the third part refers to Serbia's tourism organisation, is where I look for an increase. You all know how important tourism is an important economic branch, and it is, unfortunately, underestimating itself, but they have some projects, and I think with some increased money, they can do something to improve, so our tourism economy. Thank you very much, please read the careful explanation of this amendment and when there is a vote to support me, for the first part of the less - more, I have Mr. Djelic's reunion.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25164	I thank the People's Messenger. Does anyone else sign up for a word? Here you are, Minister of Finance, Mr Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25165	Ladies and gentlemen, the answer for Honorable Professor Simonovic, this amendment has three parts. The first part is really small, and I think we're going to do it as planned and settle it, and it's already been, I'd say, one amendment that you had on the budget rebalance for 2002, and that part will be settled at that moment. As for the Serbian Tourist Organisation, I can say that we came to that amount in consultation with them, we had them, they were looking for more, but like any budgetary discussion, they were finally satisfied with that figure. Now we're getting bigger, and maybe more important things, they're refugees. As you yourself have noticed, there have long been no items in the budget, nor for their social security, I would not again, for the first time for their health insurance are, I would not say, entirely adequate sums, but it is already a significant step for them to be shown as citizens of the first order in our country. Another thing is, as you can see, that 222 million dinar figure, it will help buy construction material, that all those refugees who would like to leave the center and who need help in the building material to get to what is necessary to get home. I'd add two more things, one thing concerns one other item if you're looking at that split and it's about donations from international organisations, of 218 million dinars. I would like to say here that the international community is too quick to think that the problem with us is solved because it is not solved. It is slowly resolved, should speed up its solution, but when it is heard from some international circles of UNHCR and others, that Serbia simply comes out of some category of problems that would require significant engagements of the organisation, which should now go to other areas in the world where the crisis is even bigger, we cannot fully agree with them and it is very important to coordinate and to seek additional funding from those UNHCR organisations that should reconcile it. Finally, as regards the loans you were talking about, the negotiations were quite adventurous, especially through the engagement of responsible people from the Commissioner and we from the Ministry of Finance had adequate contacts and Mr. Labus had contacts, however, he couldn't meet one delegation once, but it was about a single debt reprogramme, and we caught it. There is an inability to get several tens of millions of euros, now I would not bid the exact amount, it is the subject of negotiations, specifically for that purpose. The Development Bank at the Council of Europe was specifically created after World War II when the refugee problem was one of the major problems in Europe. So, that's her mandate, that's her first goal, and that's why we expect a lot of these negotiations, but of course, entering the Council of Europe is a prerequisite for this loan being hired, and that's why this house hasn't yet seen what's going to have to be one guarantee or counter-guarantee law, for borrowing that's going to dramatically improve the situation in that domain. These loans are with loans from the World Bank most favourable you can find, they have a large portion of the gifts in them, and I think it's going to be one of the important points that we're going to discuss at some meeting next year. All in all, there should be more resources, but as you can see, there are many more, not enough, and the international community needs more to engage, because today we are a country in Europe that has the largest number of refugees displaced, and that's not what this government has done, that's one tragic situation that we inherited because of the suicide policy that was led here before democratic change. I think through this engagement of the International Community and this loan, the situation will be much better, because I agree with you and you can see that in the strategy adopted by the Serbian government a few months ago, and of course, that a larger number, but by their choice, will remain in Serbia forever. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25166	No more applications under this amendment. Article 11 Amendments to the same text were submitted by the people sent by Tomislav Nikolic, the ethnic MPs Srdjan Petrovic, Dusan Ilic and Dragan Lazic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go. ) National MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25167	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Article 11. The draft budget law for 2003 is foreseen, and I have to read it -- the minister responsible for justice affairs, the commander is an officer in charge of the implementation of expenditure allocated in Section 4 and division 4 in the budget are the judicial authorities. The Minister referred to in Article 1 shall be responsible for taking over and issuing payment orders, for carrying out the tasks referred to in Article 1 and for carrying out the tasks referred to in Article 1, the Ministry of Justice shall report three months to the High Council of Justice. The first part of the amendment refers to Serbia's Seismological Institute. It's a small, but significant institution whose budget does not normally exceed 15 million a year. In rebalancing for 2002, they had a 30% budget cut and they couldn't get some equipment they planned even from their own funds, which they themselves earned. I suggest they increase the item for equipment and machines, because if it is not done now, then they will be able to buy equipment eventually in 2004, if they enter the budget. However, truth be told, Mr Djelic, and I cannot complain about the co-operation between us as long as it took for this time, he as a minister, and I as an MP, promised that these were small sums that are being dealt with here, that he would solve it in the course of the year. I respect that, of course, I have no doubt that Mr. Secretary will do so. The second part of the amendment, however, is very important, it is about larger numbers, it is about the Commissioner for Refugees. Obligations to refugees only exist for their health care are huge, there is an increase of 220 to 660 million, and there is a debt, because since 1996 there has been no position in the budget for these purposes, for these purposes, so there has been a debt of 1.650,000. It's very important, therefore, that we have health care for refugees. Another part of it, the same items for refugees, is that it requires an increase for the part relating to building construction facilities. You know, ladies and gentlemen, all very well, that there are still a lot of refugees in collective housing, where very poor living is, and we have to do as a state something to get people out of those joints there and at least where they stay and we have to provide them with some apartments and some other accommodations, because we have to be aware that most of the refugees or at least a great deal of them won't go back to where they came from. For that matter, Mr. Minister has drawn attention to the fact that a loan is expected from a European bank to build apartments for refugees. However, this has been discussed since October 2001. I have additional information from the Commissioner, that the Vice-President of the Federal Government, Mr Labus, has not yet received experts from that bank to discuss the loan, and why is that, he's self-evident? There's a part of why a loan can't be spent, and that's buying, buying, or renting for several years of peasant estates that are completely free, about 500,000 for a single household. That's where you could settle for refugee families, start living off their jobs, not donations and welfare. I think there's something that needs to be increased, because foreign creditors don't give credit, because they're afraid of changing the ethnic composition of the population that they're worried about. The last part of the amendment, part three, refers to Serbia's tourism organisation, and I'm looking for an increase. You all know how important tourism is an important economic branch, and it is, unfortunately, underestimating itself, but they have some projects and I think that with some increased money they can do something to improve our tourism economy. Thank you very much, please read the careful explanation of this amendment and when there is a vote to support me, for the first part of the less - more, I have Mr. Djelic's reunion.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25168	I thank the People's Messenger. Does anyone else sign up for a word? Here you are, Minister of Finance, Mr Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25169	Ladies and gentlemen, the answer for Honorable Professor Simonovic, this amendment has three parts. The first part is really small, and I think we're going to do it as planned and settle it, and it's already been, I'd say, one amendment that you had on the budget rebalance for 2002, and that part will be settled at that moment. As for the Serbian Tourist Organisation, I can say that we came to that amount in consultation with them, we had them, they were looking for more, but like any budgetary discussion, they were finally satisfied with that figure. Now we're getting bigger, and maybe more important things, they're refugees. As you yourself have noticed, there have long been no items in the budget, nor for their social security, I would not again, for the first time for their health insurance are, I would not say, entirely adequate sums, but it is already a significant step for them to be shown as citizens of the first order in our country. Another thing is, as you can see, that 222 million dinar figure, it will help buy construction material, that all those refugees who would like to leave the center and who need help in the building material to get to what is necessary to get home. I'd add two more things, one thing concerns one other item if you're looking at that split and it's about donations from international organisations, of 218 million dinars. I would like to say here that the international community is too quick to think that the problem with us is solved because it is not solved. It is slowly resolved, should speed up its solution, but when it is heard from some international circles of UNHCR and others, that Serbia simply comes out of some category of problems that would require significant engagements of the organisation, which should now go to other areas in the world where the crisis is even bigger, we cannot fully agree with them and it is very important to coordinate and to seek additional funding from those UNHCR organisations that should reconcile it. Finally, as regards the loans you were talking about, the negotiations were quite adventurous, especially through the engagement of responsible people from the Commissioner and we from the Ministry of Finance had adequate contacts and Mr. Labus had contacts, however, he couldn't meet one delegation once, but it was about a single debt reprogramme, and we caught it. There is an inability to get several tens of millions of euros, now I would not bid the exact amount, it is the subject of negotiations, specifically for that purpose. The Development Bank at the Council of Europe was specifically created after World War II when the refugee problem was one of the major problems in Europe. So, that's her mandate, that's her first goal, and that's why we expect a lot of these negotiations, but of course, entering the Council of Europe is a prerequisite for this loan being hired, and that's why this house hasn't yet seen what's going to have to be one guarantee or counter-guarantee law, for borrowing that's going to dramatically improve the situation in that domain. These loans are with loans from the World Bank most favourable you can find, they have a large portion of the gifts in them, and I think it's going to be one of the important points that we're going to discuss at some meeting next year. All in all, there should be more resources, but as you can see, there are many more, not enough, and the international community needs more to engage, because today we are a country in Europe that has the largest number of refugees displaced, and that's not what this government has done, that's one tragic situation that we inherited because of the suicide policy that was led here before democratic change. I think through this engagement of the International Community and this loan, the situation will be much better, because I agree with you and you can see that in the strategy adopted by the Serbian government a few months ago, and of course, that a larger number, but by their choice, will remain in Serbia forever. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25170	No more applications under this amendment. Article 11 Amendments to the same text were submitted by the people sent by Tomislav Nikolic, the ethnic MPs Srdjan Petrovic, Dusan Ilic and Dragan Lazic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go. ) National MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25171	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Article 11. The draft budget law for 2003 is foreseen, and I have to read it -- the minister responsible for justice affairs, the commander is an officer in charge of the implementation of expenditure allocated in Section 4 and division 4 in the budget are the judicial authorities. The Minister referred to in Article 1 shall be responsible for taking over and issuing payment orders, for carrying out the tasks referred to in Article 1 and for carrying out the tasks referred to in Article 1, the Ministry of Justice shall report three months to the High Council of Justice. Let me let you know that article 94. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia says the ministries are independent in the exercise of the constitution and the law of certain competences, and that Article 95 says the courts are independent and independent in their work. And how it will be the courts in Serbia who will be independent and independent in their work when the funds for salaries, for costs, for the exercise of basic actions, first determines and then distributes, assigns, the minister of justice. It is interesting that Section 3 relating to the Constitutional Court of Serbia did not enter the jurisdiction of the justice minister and that means that you have a quite sufficient majority there, I would say qualified, and you can freely leave to the Constitutional Court of Serbia that it distributes the money to it, I think it is about 15 million dinars, envisaged by the budget and for all other courts -- the Supreme Court of Serbia to those who deal with the violations, will determine the minister, when, to which extent, the minister of justice. It is your declared struggle for independence of the judiciary, and these are threats to the lustration and the continuing daily threats that arise from the Prime Minister and, through the minister of justice, to courts whenever they dare to rule a verdict or a solution that does not comply with the current political interests of those parties who exercise power in the Republic of Serbia. And until the Serbian judiciary has its own budget and decides not only on budget spending, and the budget to be approved by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, you will not have an independent judiciary. Years back and years ahead, it looks like the government will try to secure a way of commanding courts and judges. It's the easiest money. We have suggested that this member be deleted and the Government of the Republic is obliged after that by the bill, which could be brought here by emergency procedure, to resolve how the courts will be financed in their work. Don't forget the sources of income, since you have enormously increased court fees, in courts, as special funds that arrive and do not go out of the budget, are extremely high. The minister of justice, in particular this justice minister, who has been embroiled against almost all judges and is only waiting for the opportunity to bring some of his judges, who has so many people capable of being judges at once, that he does not deserve to have the budget of the judiciary at all, and that you cannot give it to Vladan Batic in your hands. Half would have gone to a football club.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25172	On behalf of the group of MPs who filed the amendment, is there anyone else answering for a word? Here you are, MP Srdjan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25173	Dear colleagues, we also asked that article 11 be deleted as a whole. The government of Serbia and the finance ministry have practically implemented the principle of gross budgets or the unity of money funds, which is good compared to the previous period. It's a big and qualitative shift. However, this article kind of gives up the principle because it is excluded from this principle, so that revenues from court fees are linked to expenditures and obligations in the area of justice. The commitment of certain revenues is mostly a weaker solution than the full and uniform coverage of budgetary revenues and expenditure. With our pledge that the Ministry of Justice, which is exceptional, we are not asking the question of the amount of funds identified for this important area, but only we believe that the exceptions are not a good phenomenon in public finances, especially given the importance of the funds. Soon we will have the introduction of a vault at the Ministry of Finance which is tasked with managing the free funds of the budget, so this solution will be provided for in Article. 11th and financially harmful.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25174	The word has Minister Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25175	Ladies and gentlemen, the judiciary and reform cost and this house voted a few months ago a whole set of judicial laws that introduced a lot of innovation. If we want it to be a reality, it has to be financed. If you look again not at rhetoric, not at paroles, but at figures, you'll notice that this budget in nominal terms, not realistic, increases about 20%, the judiciary budget increases 34%. So that's nine billion dinars and that's the fastest-growing division in the part that could be called the classic part of the budget. Why? Because, firstly, as was the policy of the government of the Republic of Serbia, supported in this home, the judiciary with health care and education is one of three priorities for improving the material position of those working there. Even so, it is not fully achieved for a sufficient purpose and so it would be in the light of where we came from. However, judges now have salaries that go from 25 to 40,000 dinars, those who work with them, especially those with higher professional training, have received a significant increase, which means improving the material position, but what is also important for our citizens, it is that they finally give some means for better conditions and not just courts that are here and a lot of talk about, but also for offenders, as people call them. They often work under unbearable conditions. The example works in Belgrade is that we have judges who can only judge alternately. One week, so three weeks can't judge, because there's just no room. If you look at this budget you will see that significant funds are provided for equipment, there is for the palace of justice, which has not seen any more serious investment than its construction, several decades ago, scheduled to change harmful air conditioning devices and not just that. Appeal courts will be established and financed. The guards must be established, because our judges and prosecutors have no security at any given time, and we know that in some situations very intense passions are manifested and they are without any protection, except for those which the MUP sometimes provides, and this time it will finally be done in a normal way and arranged. We also have the opportunity to finance in this budget what will be the whole justice reform strategy, including the deep work on those sublegal acts that will be necessary for this whole set of laws, which has been voted upon, to be a reality. Finally, as far as spending techniques are concerned, we have not come to this Article 11 but rather a joint work in formulating the content, with those where there is a specific person, who represents a separate defence of the authorities, because if you look at the third position of this Article 11, it is evident that a high council of justice is being introduced. So, not only did we show the division of various courts more precisely this time, but they were under the department of justice, that was two years ago, but we also have a clearly legally regulated role of the High Council of Justice. Members of the High Council of Justice that we met two days ago reaffirmed that this formulation, at this point, is the one that is suitable for them and for establishing judicial independence. That's it. The following year, he will show, watching the Court of Justice, a building in Germany in 9, which in 1998 was to be reduced to one purpose, the prosecution and the judiciary, as well as the Fifth Municipal Court to be transformed into a special court for counter-organised crime, that judicial reform is indeed one of the three priorities of this government. All of this will be seen with a naked eye. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25176	The word is made by MP Vojislav Seselj, president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25177	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what Finance Minister Bozidar Djelic demonstrates here for a few days, in science is called a camp or a camp. What does that mean? It's not an offensive term, it's a professional term that speaks of a man, it's not an insult, and I know it as a smart guy best, because I'm the only smart guy here. Minister, I'm the only one here. I recognized myself immediately. Is there anyone else? There isn't. It's called campeicism. The minister here talks, talks, talks and talks faster and faster, and he doesn't even talk about what's on the agenda here. This is about the independence of the judiciary and can't have the minister of justice deciding on the money of the judiciary, that's the point. You've given the Minister of Justice from 4.1 to 4.11. jurisdiction to be a commanding officer for the execution of budget items or, you say, the execution of expenditures. Costs are not executed, but payments are made on certain expenditures. You gave it to the minister, and then you gave the minister of justice a three-month report to the High Council of Justice. It can't be done by the Constitution or by law. The Minister of Justice cannot report to anyone except the Government and the National Assembly. You don't know what you're writing. You don't even know what you're formulating here. You've given the Minister of Justice a new obligation to report to an authority that's not at all hierarchically above it. It's not a question. You don't know anything. That's the problem. Neither the High Council of Justice nor the Supreme Court can be an authority above the justice minister to whom the minister reports his work or work within the framework of the ministry's jurisdiction. It can't. The minister submits a report to the government, reports to the National Assembly. Look, when a report is submitted, it's not a notification, it's not information, so it's a duty, the minister is obliged to inform the High Council of Justice, but to file a report. The report shall be put to the vote for adoption of each report. The High Council of Justice rejects the minister's report. Then what? The minister must resign or be removed. You have no idea what you've done with this provision. Djelic is now talking to us about building, restoration, renovation, etc. The minister illegally erected a monument to Emperor Dušan in front of the Court of Justice. The money belonging to the judiciary budget must be made available to the highest judicial authorities, the finance minister to take care of the filling, the percentage execution of other budget users. Financial control, financial inspection can control the financial business of courts from the aspect of the law, but not someone else instead of the judiciary does it. Then that's the main judicial authority. You have now appointed this provision the Minister of Justice as the main authority of the judiciary. It's pointless to have the Council of Justice and all the other organs. If the minister can finance the judge's salary, then add him to the jurisdiction to appoint judges.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25178	Four minutes. Is there anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. ) We move to Article 11, to which the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Joca Arsic, Milan Jankovic, Dragan Todorovic, Hranislav Peric and Dusan Cvetkovic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does anyone in the name of the bearer want a word? The word has been given by MP Joca Arsic, on behalf of a group of MPs, to the applicants of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25179	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, as the chairman, Mrs Comic said, the SPS group's MPs submitted an amendment to Article 11. Budget law, you tried since you were already familiar with a member of the law. He was explained enough by Mr. Nikolic. Our parliamentary group suggests that this member be amended and that it reads: "The minister responsible for the affairs of justice and the commander for the execution of expenditure allocated in section 4 - judicial bodies for chapters 4.1 to 4.1. The High Judicial Council is obliged to adopt a programme for the use of funds under Article 1 per end-user and to deliver it to the Ministry of Justice by 31 January 2003 at the latest. The minister responsible for the affairs of justice shall be responsible for taking over the obligation and payment under the programme referred to in Article 2(2). He is obliged to report to the High Council of Justice three months in the performance of the tasks, i.e. six months of the Committee on Justice and the administration of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia." The proposed amendment suggested that the minister of justice, as the authorising officer of the direct beneficiary of the budget, the use of funds and indirect users, should be carried out on the basis of a programme adopted by the High Council of Justice. This provision prevents self-will, and the High Council of Justice would become a control body, as well as the Committee for Justice and Administration of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The proposed solution is correct, ensuring the independence of judicial authorities. I am surprised that the Government has rejected this amendment by reason of otherwise submitting reports without ignoring the full control provided for by this amendment by the Committee on Justice and Administration. We think it's the right place to discuss six months of spending reports and the use of these funds, as it is said, under a programme that would bring the High Council of Justice, to ensure independence in providing funds, to allocate funds. The control would be more complete both by the High Council of Justice and by the Assembly, i.e. its committee, the Justice and Administration Committee. This solution would somehow reconcile these proposed resolutions on eradicating this member and would give greater authority to the Assembly and the Committee and would be, as the minister often likes to say, more transparently and meet what both the government and the minister have been pushing for these few days, to make everything available to the Assembly and the public and under complete control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25180	Is anyone else applying for a word after this amendment? The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic, president of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25181	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I would like on behalf of my colleagues who have submitted this amendment to invite, of course, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to vote in favour of this amendment. I think it's a good amendment. In the name of that, for the sake of the budget, I'd like to say only two things. The SPS is the opposition's party and will not support this budget, as it believes there are many reasons and will vote against the budget. Since the budget is the government's most important document, it is logical not to support the government either. And if the government were on the agenda, they wouldn't support her either. I'm saying this for a reason, and the vote will be and we'll see who votes. If one of the ruling parties votes against the budget and joins the opposition, let him himself explain to Serbian citizens why he did it. The same applies to the quasi of the opposition and quasi parliamentary parties. The question of the budget is the government's question of where the structure is determined and where the party is shown. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25182	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) We move on to Article 12, to which the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The applicant of the amendment wants a word. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25183	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I asked with my amendment that Article 12 be deleted, and Article 12's 1st position reads: 'Transfers between budget beneficiaries can be made by the following direct beneficiaries of budgetary resources: the Ministry of Science, Technology and Development, the Ministry of Education and Sports, the Ministry of Culture and Public Information and the Ministry of Agriculture and Water Management'. First, it wouldn't be principled and how you like to say DOS gentlemen, transparently let the ministries be privileged and not. It would be principled if either the Ministry couldn't, or all the ministries could. The question now arises what is in common with the Ministry of Education and Sports, the Ministry of Culture and Public Information and the Ministry of Agriculture and Water Economy. What is common is that they have the most incompetent ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia. If he looks at the Ministry of Education and Sports, what law can Gassa Knezevic write? Bad, so bad that it is a nightmare for those who have to implement such a law, so it is likely that Gasa Knezevic will have to pay for specialized services and services under the contract of the Ministry of Science and Development 142 million and 800 000 and 285 million to write him the laws. What kind of law can the Minister of Culture and Public Information write, Lecic? Not at all. I've never seen a man so lazy in his life. The only thing a man thinks is he's going to the reception, he's going to the cocktails. He doesn't care about the laws or the ministry or anything else. So he's going to have to set aside the Ministry of Science and Development 198 million and 958 thousand and services under contract 6 million 250 thousand dinars. When it comes to the Ministry of Agriculture and Water Affairs, what kind of law can Dragan Vesenov or a professional publication write to us about how to catch you in poaching or how to export singing birds or how to ruin Serbian agriculture and a Serbian farmer? He will have to pay the Ministry of Science and Development 50m dinars, but now the question is what will the Ministry of Science and Development of 3 billion dinars and services under the contract of 200m and 600,000 dinars. Mr. Minister, it is my advice that you accept this amendment and that the committees immediately submit an amendment that all ministries can make transfers, because then you won't have to rebalance the budget, you won't have to follow up on this speaker and at press conferences to tell the truth that in the event that the rebalancing does not adopt no wages and pensions. The only thing that's going to happen is, Mr. Minister, you're going to go to jail because you've paid for Labus' election campaign to RTS 2 billion and 600 million dinars. That's the only thing, because you were spending your resources on the 2002 Budget Act. Now you're asking us to grant you what you've already spent.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25184	The word has a minister, Mr Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25185	There's no problem with budget accounting here, but I'd say budget techniques. What is true is that in one final system of vaults for all of the budgets of Serbia, all direct and indirect users, the idea is and it will be already the 6th point of the agenda of this session, when we talk about the additions of the Budgetary System Act, it is that there is indeed optimization of all resources and that the transfer of funds from the government register takes place when showing and forming even one predetermined order of tasks of various budget users, so that when the least consumption occurs, it is paid and given and that money is given only on that day and only on that day to reach this indirect or direct budget user. But our reality is a little different. It has not been invested at all in management, as it has not been invested in energy, as it has not been invested and it has not been given to refugees because of it all, and this is one I would say may be a less visible point in implementing all reforms, which is that our administration, which was worth one of the best at the end of the 1980s in Central Europe, may even be wider for some parts. Yesterday I mentioned the Department of Statistics, especially the Federal at the time, and now the problem is that it's going back terribly and it's going to take us another year. I expect we don't have this provision next year, when we establish such systems. However, we must, taking into account the provisions in the Budgetary System Act, also provide for some elements that will allow life to take place normally, until this system of vaults is established which we are of course very much working on and I would still like to inform the various MPs who talk about birds that birds are no longer in the jurisdiction of Mr. Veseinov, but Mrs. Mihajlov.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25186	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? (No) The 12th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Živanko Radovanchev, Golub Rajic, Miomir Ilic, Rade Bajic and Bora Stanimirovic. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a National MP, Bora Stanimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25187	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, with fellow Socialist Party of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to Article 12, which reads: "Transfers between budget beneficiaries can make the following direct beneficiaries of budgetary resources and this: Ministry of Science and Technology and Development, Ministry of Education and Sports, Ministry of Culture and Public Information and the Ministry of Agriculture and Water Management". We practically demand that attitude one be deleted for the following reasons. First, how can the Ministry of Education and Sports make transfers if the 2003 budget provides for less funds than the 2002 budget. Therefore, that reason does not stand before. Secondly, if smaller funds are provided, Minister of Education Gašo Knezevic asked in his previous term that practically these funds, which were allocated for 2003, increase, but I am interested that the minister in 2003 with reduced resources will reform education in general, reform of the university, seek a new teacher with new access to work, ask for changes in basic entities in the educational process. Secondly, the Ministry of Education and Sports is practically, we can say, and they usually intend to speak to the Minister of Education, the Prime Minister and others when they point out that this is the best government in 100 years, and the finance minister said yesterday that this is the best budget in 100 years. I'd say this is the least, if it hadn't happened in the last 100 years to cut the funding to university education in the next year compared to the previous one. This is the first time now, but when they use those 100 years all the time to sort of determine the equivalent of their work, I would remind you that Serbia, especially the southern part of Serbia, was freed from Turks only 90 years ago, means there is not even 100 years. If you compare it to 100 years old, it means that the Turkish Sultan had a worse budget for Serbia, that is, for these areas than today. Secondly, this amendment practically allows what we talked about for a few days, especially the first day we talked about the 2000 budget. It has been repeatedly pointed out that so many criminal charges have been filed for purposeless spending of money. Article 12, Article 12, is a classic example or a school example of non-intentional means being converted into a deliberate and then criminal liability, practically, a waste for all ministers who abuse this attitude, or member.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25188	Is anyone else applying for a word after this amendment? The word is by MP Ljubomir Mucic, an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25189	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, you're getting more nervous, and the end is getting closer. I warned you last night that Friday 13 was a bit of a rough day. I really cannot agree that the government and the minister have not accepted this amendment, given that the SPS parliamentary group has proposed to delete only the first position of the 12th member, where it is envisaged that transfers of funds between individual ministries be abolished, given that the government can make changes in the appraisal during the year, and that we have also returned the budget rebalancing, i.e. to change and complement as a regular institution to the future. So, they would keep certain departments of supplying equipment, as some televisions here in the Assembly today, able public procurement agencies from their appraisals to channel funds, to carry out purchases, and that the competent ministry will only receive the necessary equipment and funds and that there is no need for the transfer of funds to be made twice. Secondly, I don't think it really makes any sense for the Ministry of Science and Technology, the Ministry of Education and Sports, the Ministry of Culture and Information, as well as for institutions that do jobs for social activities and the Ministry of Agriculture and Water Management. I think that, and if there are some touching points, there's a clear differentiation on that side. Therefore, the SPS parliamentary group believes that this amendment does not affect any rights of the ministries as direct beneficiaries of the budget and that this amendment can and should be supported. What would that mean? If I weren't to point out the examples that were brought out here yesterday, what would that be? After that, it would lead to certain problems -- not this minister, this minister did, the transfer was made from this direct user to another indirect user, from directly to indirect, from indirect to direct, and in this crowd, the finance minister will deliver a report to us by February, if it so leaves the funds in the budget to be rotated and transferred from one direct user to another, especially between investment funds and the Ministry of Agriculture with social activities and education and sports ministries, culture and information or science and technology. I think, if it's the Ministry of Science and Technology, it should be adoptrating for all other ministries that encourage development and invest in new technologies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25190	There are no more entries for the word after this amendment. The 13th Amendment is submitted by Gordana Pop-Lazic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Do you want a word? I find that MP Gordana Pop-Lazic gave up the amendment she submitted to Article 13. Draft budget law for 2003. To Article 13. The amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Ljubomir Mucic, Nebojsa Jovic, Dragan Jovanovic, Rajko Baralic and Marko Culibrk. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does a representative of the applicants of the amendment want a word? The word has the People's MP Ljubomir Mucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25191	It's coming to an end. I'm not gonna use three plus three. I hope, as an applicant for the amendment, in the first three minutes, I can convince the Minister and the Government that this amendment should be accepted. For those who do not read, I warn that this is an amendment that, under the Public Procurement Act, regulates the amount of funds for the least purchases. In the draft budget law for 2003, which you received, this amount is 600,000 dinars. The SPS parliamentary group proposed that the amount be 450,000. For what reason? First, last year, we found the Public Procurement Act to be the highest amount of 350,000. This led us to accept an amount of 450,000 for small-value purchases for which no tendering should be held, or competition, with an inflation increase of 16% in 2002 and a proposed growth rate of 9% in 2003. On the other hand, we believe that the reduction from 300 million to 120 million for large public procurement would increase the volume of those bidders who would have to obtain guarantees so that investors would be protected in order, if no project was realised, that, in that sense, they could collect through guarantees those obligations made by the contractor, i.e. the direct contractor.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25192	Is there anyone else applying for a word under this amendment? The word has a finance minister, Mr Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25193	Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment has drawn attention to something important, which is just establishing some rules in the domain of public procurement. Let's remember, how long last year there were no very precise provisions in that domain. Of course, today we are talking about what is this minimum amount above which to conduct a tender or which is the minimum amount above which to obtain a bank guarantee. These amounts came from a consultation with the Public Procurement Department, which was established by the law that you voted for and which started to work and which gave this recommendation, given the specific elements of the public procurement database, which it is currently editing. So I think this is the right level. Let's let next year's experience show us how many public procurements were, underneath, above, what happened. We'll have more experience and then, eventually, as foreseen by the Public Procurement Act, change this amount. Also, I'd like to take advantage of what Mr. Mucic took the floor, to say that you received another document today. That way we'd like to prove again that there are no secrets for the MPs in this budget. We tried to answer all questions and one question from Mr Mucic and the SPS group. More detail is required which are debts, which are guarantees. We have in this text, in time, provided you with the answers to all the questions you've had regarding this budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25194	Is there any more word applications under this amendment? No, I don't. ) Article 14. The amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Srdjan Petrovic, Dusan Ilic and Dragan Lazic. The Government, the Finance Committee, did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is issued by MP Srdjan Petrovic, representative of the amendment's applicants.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25195	The Honorable Presidency, dear colleagues, Article 14 speaks of special programmes adopted by the Government, on a proposal from the competent ministry, and we here should only allow these specific programmes to be financed without knowledge of the details of these business programmes. In this direction, our amendment is directed, we ask that the distribution and use of funds be carried out under a specific programme, adopted by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Government, and then within the next sections, those same divisions that are in Article 14. The bill - this is a division of 8, these are transfers at other levels of government, and division 13 - Ministry of Economy and Privatisation, division 14 - Ministry of Mining and Energy, division 15 - Ministry of Transport and Telecommunications, division 16 - Ministry of Urbanism and Construction, and division 19 - Ministry of Labour and Employment. Let me also remind you that by accepting the amendment to delete Article 4 and that the Ministry of Agriculture, which speaks of agricultural costs, for the agrarian budget, is being put in Article 14, so that's where we have agriculture. We don't get into what these programs are, whether they're good or bad. We just can't get into it because we don't have those programs. It is possible that the finance minister offered this to us in addition to the 2003 budget we received an hour ago, but you will agree that it is not acceptable now, in these circumstances, to declare it. We should have gotten that much before the budget debate started, in the form of a programme that we will adopt along with the budget. All these funds are not even small, they amount to around 10% of the budget expenditure and surely the Assembly must allow the use of these funds under special programmes. How then next year, when we adopt the final budget account for 2003 or 2004, or another, we will be able to compare what is planned and what is achieved. So that's not what it is. Many of these programs are also years old. So they're certain strategies in these areas. All of this had to be in front of this congregation. The DSS has talked about this many times, and when we applied for an extension of the 2001 final budget account, these specific programmes were again the biggest problem. It is now shown that special programmes are also a problem in the 2003 budget. The finance ministry can't do a job for other ministries, that's obvious. It can defend them for this pay phone, but it can't do the job for them. These ministries, mentioned here, had to come out with these programmes, to file together with the 2003 budget of the Assembly's programmes, and then we were supposed to adopt it. If all of this is missing, this Member, or the DSS amendment, should be adopted and the budget account debated for 2003 thereafter.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25196	Is there anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Vukic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25197	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I find it ridiculous, of course, that everything Minister Djelic spoke of, his hypomanic steps forward, but first I will say what this is about and what I asked for with the proposed amendment. In Article 14(1), the amount of “1.370,000,000” is replaced by “180,000 dinars”. The words about the money that belongs to the so-called so-called money. The co-ordination body, formed by the Serbian government, was involved by something and the federal government, a little angry, and then participated. God knows who's behind this. Anyway, we've been looking for this because even in this new, additional report, we haven't received any information on how this money is going to be spent. No one has told us where these money will go, whether certain organisations, associations will be paid, whether it will be paid and paid to Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, or whether that money will be paid as it wishes and as it only knows, as it will be, spent by Nebojsa Covic. There are absolutely no guarantees for the way that money is spent absolutely in the budget, it does not exist in any other accompanying acts, which the minister has brought to us, which the government has delivered to us. That's why we asked, and it's not a random amount, because we've asked that approximately this way, at the price at which the government sells Serbian sugars, to build new sugars in Kosovo and Metohija, and thus the best funding for the people in Kosovo and Metohija, is much better, because this will hardly be seen. He will hardly see anything, because neither who knows, nor how he will spend that money, and he will give it to Nebojsa Covic, without any checks, is truly irresponsible. I would beg the minister because I know that even he, as he is, and I think of him all the worst, probably he is about me. Thank him for that. But I think it would be good if you could answer again for this -- where exactly the money goes, and not tell those stories that you can handle -- what you spend 28.5 million on, but tell us exactly what that 28.5 million is going to be spent on, because you know that you don't even know what it's going to go to. It was delivered to you by the minister, as he asked, as he delivered this one - give me 1,370,000,000, and what will be spent, the Father God knows not, and to no one living is clear. I invite you to accept this amendment. When it comes to the allocation of these funds, which would be saved in such a way, it would be good, but if it were going as you would say, in transparent programmes for the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija, for those who want to survive on their centuries-old hearths, for those who want to live with the lives of a decent man, but to know that that money goes there. I'd still like to say...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25198	I'm warning you of an overrun of the time allowed.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25199	I'm way out of time, and you guys are way out of line, but I'm done. Of course, voting on the budget each time is a vote on the government of the Republic of Serbia, a vote showing who the government is and who the opposition is. Those who in any way support the budget and have various ways to support the budget will definitely show the public and citizens of Serbia that they are for Zoran Djindjic and his government. Of course, we Serbian radicals will make it clear that we are both against the budget, and against the government of the Republic of Serbia. And in the end, I'd just like to advertise Dr. Vojislav Seselj's new book.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25200	I'm warning you that you're exceeding the time allowed and that in the time you've exceeded, you're using a pay phone to promote your party. Is there a word application for this amendment? He has the word National MP Nada Kolundzija, president of the Democratic Alternative Group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25201	The Honorable Presidency, distinguished members of the government, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the deafness that we are exposed to by some MPs, is difficult to determine the right measure, because, simply, the mind is not capable of being turned into nonsense and measuring the size of stupidity. Two, that's why I'm like a man who thinks I'm a decent man of my mind, and I'm not gonna take any of this crap. What we've also heard here is a bunch of ignorance, but ignorance can be measured, knowledge takes its measure. In addition, ignorance can be reduced, if knowledge is complemented by facts, and so I will say only a few facts, so that those who do not know would be complemented by their knowledge fund. The lies we've also heard here, they're both a goal and a means, and I know, and those who use lies know that lies don't need facts, and truth is a blood enemy. That's why, as far as lies go, I'll only ask for reasons - what lies should cover up. That's why lies are launched. They need dirty leads to hide. So, as far as the facts are concerned, I just want to say that well-paid patriotism for the result had a Security Council Resolution and a Kumanski Agreement which clearly states that under no circumstances will the Serbian state enter Kosovo and Metohija, and will not enter the country's security zone. So this is the result of a paid patriotic policy that is one part, which is a thousand square kilometers of Kosovo and Metohija and 725 square kilometers of southern Serbia, torn from the constitutional right of the order of Serbia. So these are the facts. The government that was excluded from the possibility of affecting these events, a new government, found a form to form a joint body called the Co-ordination Body for South Serbia and the South Serbian Coordination Centre, and this was done by the Federal and Republic Government. These governments have adopted programmes, and governments have adopted financial plans and financial reports from the Co-ordination Body and the Coordination Centre. The result of this is that a land safety zone has been lifted, that our forces are in southern Serbia and that the doors for Kosovo and Metohija have been unearthed, that Serbia may try to do something there. As far as lies go, what should be covered by these lies. These lies obviously need to cover up the fact that the policy that was led, what were their intentions, let them explain to those who would one day, and I believe in courts to ask what their intentions were, but the result is what is clearly recorded in every normal country as a betrayal of state and national interests. To be torn off, nearly two thousand square miles of its own territory, is a state betrayal and I believe they will answer to the courts. I think that's the basic reason why they decided to attack like this, and as far as the simplicity that they're showering on us, decency requires that we be above it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25202	No more reported word after this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zivanko Radovančev, Golub Rajic, Miomir Ilic, Ljubomir Mucic and Rade Bajic. Since this amendment has been adopted by the Government and the Finance Committee, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MP Natasa Jovanovic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new member be added after article 14. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The applicant for the amendment is not present. Is anyone else applying for a word from the authorized participants in the debate? No, I don't. ) Members of the 15th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Toma Busetic, Joca Arsic, Jovan Todorovic, Ljubomir Mucic and Dusan Cvetkovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does a representative of the applicants of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Joca Arsic and this is the last amendment to this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25203	It's not my fault it's Friday and 13, time for the weekend. As announced by the president, Ms Micic, a group of SPS MPs, on behalf of the parliamentary group, submitted an amendment to Article 15 and proposed that Article 15 be amended and read as follows: "The obligations of the Republic of Serbia under the Law on the issue of short-term bonds ("The Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia", No 54/96), will be settled by the end of June 2004". The explanation for the submission of such an amendment is the following, for the obligations of the Republic of Serbia under the law, the issue of short-term bonds should be implemented by the end of 2002, as foreseen by the Law on Budgets for both 2001 and 2002. Since these obligations are not respected, and not according to any law, the proposed amendment sets a shorter deadline by 30 June 2004, and since the three-year deadline is unwarranted and does not guarantee that the commitments will be carried out. Just to remind you that the intended member, which is scheduled for the obligations of the Republic of Serbia under the Short-term Bonds Act, as I said "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", number 54/96, to be reconciled by the end of 2005. We believe that this deadline is quite a debt, that one non-discipline that is constantly criticised is again established, and that the predecessors have left certain obligations that this authority should settle, and this proposal, I suppose, leaves this obligation for another authority, because, as is known, this assembly's mandate expires around 2005 in January, and here, these commitments are scheduled to be settled by the end of 2005 and 31 December 2005 respectively. For these reasons, we also proposed this shorter deadline, reminding that, the obligations that were otherwise foreseen from 1996 are settled in the next year until half of next year and thus service this obligation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25204	People's MP Ljubomir Mucic, an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group, spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25205	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Comrade Joca Arsic, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, has proposed indeed one of the amendments that is very important, although it is at the end, and given that no parliamentary group has submitted an amendment to this member, and that is, in fact, to extend the payment of the commitment on the basis of short-term bonds issued in 1998 and 1997, and to the 1998 budget, defined, and subsequently, the funds for the payment of these bonds. On the other hand, I can say that even in the 2001 and 2002 budget, we predicted in one member that all the commitments that were made under this law would be settled until 31.12.2002, and then in 31.12.2002, and that the draft budget decision for 2003, meant, legally, by law, by the law of the budget, was extended until 2005. With this amendment, we did not want to extend that deadline for the next three years, given that we believe that this assembly and this government should not leave any obligations on the basis of securities of value and financial obligations for a future parliament, a future government. To that end, we have also proposed that the 2003 budget, and the longest until the first half of June 2004, be paid, or the payment of the bonds issued in 1997. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25206	Is there anyone else applying for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the draft law in particular, do we ask if the proposing's representative would like to give the final word? He doesn't want to. ) I hereby conclude the examination of the draft law in particular and in accordance with Article 148(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. We move to point 3: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary to the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2002. YEAR (vote) (Dejan Mihajlov, from places: according to the Rules of Procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25207	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, claims by the Prime Minister that the consequences of not adopting the budget would affect the citizens are completely incorrect. This is also seen in the very fact that he does not attend the vote on the budget. I want to say to this occasion, that since we haven't received answers in the past few days to many of the questions that we've asked in the final budget account...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25208	Which member of the Rules of Procedure do you advertise?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25209	... DSS MPs don't want to take part in pushing their hand in the mail's pocket...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25210	Is it a breach of the Rules of Procedure or is it a violation of the Rules of Procedure that you will not participate in the debate, do you think?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25211	We will not take part in the vote, given that the government has not participated in the debate and the DSS MPs themselves are...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25212	You've abused the word of the Rules of Procedure, after advertising the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill and in particular we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft amending and supplement law on the 2002 budget of the Republic of Serbia, in principle. I ask the Members of Parliament to plead with the vote. I conclude the vote: For 122, no one, with abstentions, voted two out of the 124 MPs present. I find the National Assembly has no quorum to decide. Please report to the Rules of Procedure. I can't hear you. The people's emissary, Cedomir Jovanovic, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25213	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in accordance with the article, I think it's 81. Rules of Procedure on the work of the Republic Parliament, I would like to ask for a break for consultations within our parliamentary group, since an initiative has been launched by the MP's task force to replace MPs who are not ready to respond to their parliamentary call, and we would like to carry out further consultations within the next hour and possibly, if, then, there is political agreement, to replace those MPs who do not respond to their call.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-13-0.u25214	I accept the proposal from the president of the DOS-Reform Serbia parliamentary group and am setting a break. [[After break – 19.15.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen, MPs, please insert identification cards into your MPs to determine the quorum. I find that the application of the electronic system has established that we have a quorum to decide on and move on to a decision. Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we are moving to a decision, as I have already said. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2002, in principle. I ask the Members of Parliament to plead with the vote. I conclude the vote: for 123, against four, the abstentions were not, was not voted by one, of a total of 128 MPs. Since we've passed the law in principle, we're moving on to a decision on amendments. I remind you that it has been established that an integral part of the bill has become amendments to the 7th People's MP Velimir Simonovic, with the legal and technical editorial proposed by the Finance Committee and by the 7th National MP Dragan Pavlovic. Parliamentarians Ljubomir Mucic, Radojko Petric, Nebojsa Jovic and Marko Culibrk submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for six, against 119, there were no abstentions, three of the 128 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zivanko Radovanchev, Miomir Ilic, Hranislav Peric and Golub Rajic. The committees responsible did not accept this amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: four, against 121 abstentions, were not voted by three, of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ljubomir Mucic, Radojko Petrovic, Jovan Todorovic, Dusan Cvetkovic, Zivanko Radovančev and Joca Arsic. The committees responsible have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for five, against 120, the abstentions were not, three voted, of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Finance has submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for 117, against three, abstentioned six, two of the 128 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ljubomir Mucic, Radojko Petrovic, Jovan Todorovic, Dusan Cvetkovic, Zivanko Radovančev and Joca Arsic. The committee responsible has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for five, against 120, the abstentions were not, three voted, of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2002, in general. I ask the Members of Parliament to plead with the vote. I conclude the vote: for 124, there wasn't one, held up, not two, of 127 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted most of the votes of the bill. We move to the 4th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2003. I put to the vote the draft budget law of the Republic of Serbia for 2003 in principle. I conclude the vote: for 118, against seven, the abstentions were not voted by three, of a total of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote, has adopted the draft budget law for 2003, in principle. Since the draft law has been adopted in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. I remind you that during the search of the Bills, it has been found in particular that an integral part of the Bill's proposal has become amendments to Articles 4 and 14 submitted jointly by MPs Živanko Radovanchev, Golub Rajic, Miomir Ilic, Ljubomir Mucic and Rade Bajic. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against 120, abstentioned four, voted four out of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Toma Busetic, Jovan Todorovic, Dusan Cvetkovic, Joca Arsic, Radojko Petrovic and Ljubomir Mucic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for one, against 121 abstentions, there was no vote of six, of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Bratoljub Janackovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Now you can't give up the amendment, you could have given up during the debate, I apologize. I conclude the vote: for 12, against 105, two abstentions, nine of the 128 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Toma Busetic, Jovan Todorovic, Dusan Cvetkovic, Joca Arsic, Radojko Petrovic and Ljubomir Mucic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote. For it was not, against 121 abstentions, there was no vote of 7, a total of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Toma Busetic, Jovan Todorovic, Dusan Cvetkovic, Joca Arsic, Radojko Petrovic and Ljubomir Mucic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote. For 4, against 119, there were no abstentions, no 5 votes, a total of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Miroljub Veljkovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote. There were no, against 120, abstentions, no votes, no eight, a total of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Petrovic, Dusan Ilic and Dragan Lazic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote. For one, against 119 abstentions, there was no vote of 8, a total of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic, Adam Urosevic and Zivko Selakovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote. For three, against 119, one abstention, did not vote 5, a total of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was submitted by Parliament member Gordana Pop-Lazic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote. For it was not against 119 abstentions, there was no vote of 8, a total of 127 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. During the search of the bill in particular, amendments to article 4, MPs Srdjan Petrovic, Dusan Ilic and Dragan Lazic withdrew. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote. For one, against 120, there were no abstentions, there was no 7. A total of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Petrovic, Dusan Ilic and Dragan Lazic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote. For it was not, against 121 abstentions, there was no vote of 7, a total of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zarko Obradovic, Zoran Angelkovic, Ljubomir Mucic, Radojko Petrovic, Nebojsa Jovic and Hranislav Peric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote. For 4, against 121 abstentions, there was no vote of 3, a total of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote. For it was not, against 119 abstentions, there was no vote of 9, a total of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic, Adam Urosevic and Zivko Selakovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote. For 5, against 120, there were no abstentions, there was no 3, a total of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zarko Obradovic, Zoran Angelkovic, Ljubomir Mucic, Radojko Petrovic, Nebojsa Jovic and Hranislav Peric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote. For 4, against 119, one abstention, did not vote 4, a total of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Vukic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote. For 4, against 120, there were no abstentions, there was no vote of 4, a total of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic, Adam Urosevic and Zivko Selakovic submitted the 7th amendment together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote. For two, against 120, there were no abstentions, there was no vote of 6, a total of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Ljubodrag Grbić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote. For 19, against 104, two abstentions did not vote 3, a total of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Meso Omerovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote. For 16, against 94 abstentions, 10 did not vote 8, a total of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branislav Ivkovic, Dragan Tomic, Stevan Guduric, Zoran Nikolic and Vladimir Garčević. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote. For 12, against 92, with 20 abstentions, no vote was given to 4, a total of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Predrag Mijailovic and Dragoljub Vojinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for 5, against 117 abstentions, 6 of the 128 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Velimir Simonovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for 26, against 91, the abstentioned 6, did not vote 5, out of a total of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 11th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Tomislav Nikolic and joint MPs Srdjan Petrovic, Dusan Ilic and Dragan Lazic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for one, against 120, the abstentions, did not vote 7, of a total of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Joca Arsic, Milan Jankovic, Dragan Todorovic, Hranislav Peric and Dusan Cvetkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against 120, with abstentions, voted 8 out of a total of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for no one, against 118, the abstentions, did not vote 10, out of a total of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zivanko Radovanchev, Golub Rajic, Miomir Ilic, Rade Bajic and Bora Stanimirovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: four against 120, abstention one, not three, of a total of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. During a review of the draft law in particular, the amendment to Article 13 was withdrawn by MPs Gordana Pop-Lazic. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ljubomir Mucic, Nebojsa Jovic, Dragan Jovanovic, Rajko Baralic and Rajko Culibrk. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for no one, against 118, a abstentioned one, did not vote 9, out of a total of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Petrovic, Dusan Ilic and Dragan Lazic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for no one, against 119, a abstentioned one, did not vote 8 out of a total of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Vukic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for one, against 115, a abstentioned one, did not vote 11, out of a total of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new member be added after Article 14. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for 3, versus 112, abstention four, did not vote 9, out of a total of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 15th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Toma Busetic, Joca Arsic, Jovan Todorovic, Ljubomir Mucic and Dusan Cvetkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: four against 117, two abstentions, no vote 5, of a total of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision by amendment, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I am putting on the vote of the 2003 draft law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia, in general. I ask the Members of Parliament to plead with the vote. I conclude the vote: for 119, the seven, the abstentioned, were not voted by two, of a total of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the 2003 draft budget law by majority. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we are working on Tuesday. We have three points left on the agenda. I thank you for your patience and for your attention.
