ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-03-0.u24565	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the fourth session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, the session is attended by 190 MPs. Please, in order to determine the quorum, insert identification cards into your MPs. I find that the application of the electronic system has established that we have a quorum and 163 MPs are present. I would like to inform you that they have informed you that the following MPs will be absent: Zoran M. Nikolic, Predrag Stojanović, Jon Čizaš, Petar Misic, Višnja Nežić, Zoran Bošković, Branislav Pomorički, Jožef Kasa, Atil Juhas, Boško Ristić, Gorica Mojović, Slobodan Pavlovic, Borisvoje Drakulović, Nebojsa Leković, Milos Lučić, Branko Besevic, Miodrag Jaćimović and Dragor Hiber. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. Also, according to members 83 and 84. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that I invited representatives of the Centre for Free Elections and Democracy, representatives of the National Movement "Resist", representatives of the National Democratic Institute, representatives of the University Professors' Association and teachers, representatives of the USAID. I welcome the guests present. You were presented the minutes of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002, held on 19, 20, 21 and 26 November 2002. As more than 126 MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from the previous session. I would like to inform you that the review in the Management Board's work department found that none of the Members of the People's Committee delivered in writing an objection to the minutes of the previous session and I am voting on the minutes of the Third Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002, held on 19, 20, 21 and 26 November 2002. I ask the MPs to declare themselves by voting on the adoption of the minutes. I conclude the vote and declare that 139 MPs, against 10, with abstentions, did not vote 44, out of 193 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, adopted the minutes of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002, held on 19, 20, 21 and 26 November 2002. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before setting out the agenda for the session, in accordance with the rules of the Rules of Procedure, we need to decide on proposals for putting on the agenda of acts under emergency procedure and on proposals for amendments and additions to the proposed agenda of the session. First, the Government of the Republic of Serbia proposed putting the National Assembly on the agenda of the proposal for a law on the scope of funds and the participation of municipalities and cities in the income tax and sales tax in 2003. THE year, which submitted to the National Assembly on November 29, 2002. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I implore the Members of Parliament to make a statement by voting. I conclude the vote: for 131, against 59, the abstentioned three, did not vote five, out of a total of 198 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Secondly, MP Ivan Andric suggested putting the National Assembly on the agenda of the proposal for a decision on the appointment of the president and members of the Committee on Reconstruction and Development of SREMEN, which submitted to the National Assembly on 25 November 2002. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I implore the Members of Parliament to make a statement by voting. I conclude the vote: for 134, against 10, a abstentioned one, did not vote 54, out of a total of 199 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. We move to a decision on proposals for withdrawing certain points in the draft agenda of the session. First, MP Srdjan Petrovic, deputy president of the DOS parliamentary group Dr Vojislav Kostunica - Democratic Party of Serbia, suggested that a second point be withdrawn from the proposed agenda of the session: – Proposal for a Law on the Final Account of the Republic of Serbia for 2001. THE year, which was submitted to the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Serbia on 12 November 2002. Does MP Srdjan Petrovic want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-03-0.u24566	The Honorable Presidency, dear colleagues, you have seen from the proposal -- the DSS asks for the withdrawal of the second item of the draft law on the final account of the Republic of Serbia's 2001 budget. What led us to that? First of all, we believe that the draft law on the final account of the Republic of Serbia's 2001 budget does not contain the necessary data and explanations, so it is not possible to clearly see the implementation of budget revenues and expenditures and the actual results of the business of the Republic's budget for 2001. In addition, the final account is not even made up of the necessary seriousness, so that the data and explanations provided under the final account and the report on the budget implemented for 2001 cannot be clearly seen by the implementation of budgetary revenues and expenditures and the actual results of the operations for the past 2001. In view of all these facts, we believe that, in order to correct the quality of this material, it is necessary to supplement this bill with the following data and information, in particular according to the Law on Public Revenue and Expenditure and the Law on the Budgetary System, the Government was obliged to propose, in addition to the final budget account, in addition to the report on the implementation of the 2001 budget, the following reports - Report on own revenue made by public services, beneficiaries of budgetary resources; the report on appropriations, i.e. loans from the budget and the state of funds from the repayment of credits; the report on revenue to the budget beneficiaries by specific regulations and expenditure on the closer purposes of those revenues. As you've seen today we've got a certain review, i.e. A certain government report. There are reasons for all these items, however, we have practically not received these reports, a report on our own revenues made by public services -- budget beneficiaries. We didn't get that report. We got, in a way, an explanation of why that report was missing. The same applies also to the report on the appropriations from the budget and the balance of the repayment of the credit, the report on revenue granted to budgetary users under specific regulations and the expenditure incurred on the closer purposes of the burden on those revenues. What is particularly important is that this report does not have what was very important for the past 2001 and 2002, and I am now talking about 2001, and these are incomes based on interest on the deposit of the republican budget to the NBJ, revenues based on privatisation and donations, i.e. on donation revenues, meaning - source, purpose, consumption, etc. In particular, given the donations made to improve the liquidity of the Republic budget. It is clear to us that this is practically the first year when we are discussing a single budget that came after a long period of time, meaning after 2000, however, we believe that in this first budget, the National Assembly, i.e. the first final budget account, submit much more data on which we could conclude what kind of year it was and, most importantly, based on these data, we could clearly look at the trends that are important to us in the 2003 vote and the budget decision. Since these reports are not available, neither are they in this supplement that the Government made, the DSS remains on this request and in view of whether they will deliver these supplements during the 2001 final budget account debate, the DSS will define its position on the vote on the 2001 final budget account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-03-0.u24567	Does Mr Bozidar Djelic want the word of the promoter, finance and economy minister? You've got three minutes on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-03-0.u24568	Madam Chairman, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, of course, when the final account of any organisation, any budgetary user, and of course the budget of the Republic of Serbia, must always be asked whether it was well explained what happened, whether there was an explanation for what happened and whether there was sufficient insight into what the responsible persons had decided. Of course, I'm personally not happy with what this final account looks like, because we have in the government, in the ministry, I personally have an idea of what a real final account of a country's budget should look like. However, let us conclude that our 1998 search for the official messenger found no trace of the final budget account for the previous year. Now they're bringing me my fellow final bill for the 1999 budget. That's one table. There was no debate about it and I can say that this final account is the most detailed document since World War II, this guy, in Serbia. When we add to this the fact that outside of any legal obligation the Government, my ministry, has personally advocated the delivery of a budget inspection report for the implementation of the budget, because neither is there any obligation to do so, but we wanted to establish in this way one tradition that the finance ministers and the government are responsible for what is happening. Not just through the final account, but through the additional budget inspection report. I think it's more visible this way that this is much more quality than it's ever been in this home. The last thing I would like to mention is that, in accordance with the legal new provisions, this House has received a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Serbia to make a decision, to hire an extreme auditor, who will, independently of the Government and for you, conduct a budget audit for 2001 and submit a report to you. It would be the first time in the history of Serbian finances that parliament gets, independently of the government, an insight into the state register. It is a transitional solution until the Supreme Court is established, but it seems to me that in this way the Government of the Republic of Serbia shows that there is nothing to hide, that this is all what it has done to the public, too, for you to see what happened in this budget box. That's why I'd say it's a good time to review the final bill. He's the best quality that's given to this home. It has a natural space for swallowing it. I thank my associates who worked day and night today to supplement the various data that tomorrow night. It's possible to get further information on donations and some things in the course of the debate. As far as privatisation is concerned, we have already indicated that it was zero, so it cannot be explained that there was something that did not exist in 2001. Of course, it's up to you to decide if you want to consider this at this point. It would be comprehensive if the final bill were considered before the next year's budget vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-03-0.u24569	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-03-0.u24570	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we have a very strong business reason why these materials would have to be removed from the agenda today, because Article 213. The Rules of Procedure in paragraph 1 says, "The government is reporting to the National Assembly about its work." It has never done so for these two years, and especially on policy-making, enforcement of laws, other regulations and general acts, on the achievement of the development plan and the spatial plan and on the implementation of the Republic's budget. The government hasn't filed a single report in two years. We cannot adopt the final bill for either 2000 or 2001, nor adopt a new budget for 2003, until the government has submitted at least one report on its work. The government does not respect Article 213. Rules of Procedure. Secondly, paragraph 2 states: "The government reports to the National Assembly when requested by the National Assembly or by its own initiative and at least once a year." There is no question here whether or not the National Assembly asked for that report. At least once a year, the government had to file a report. I suggest that we now take these points off the agenda, leave one decent deadline for the government, perhaps a week, maybe ten days, that the government submits a report on its work, which will cover all the segments on which the Rules of Procedure insists, and that we consider the report on the final account, and then move on to the adoption of the budget for the following year. That's the only thing that would be natural. That's the only thing that would be right. Of course, here's a late report on the final bill for 2000, but it's not late for the National Assembly. He's late for the government. The fact that Minister Djelic praises the report on the final bill, you know each of your horses praises, but when the minister praises his work, it means nothing. That report is yet to be evaluated by the National Assembly. Perhaps what Djelic considers the best might be the National Assembly's assessment of the worst. We'll see about that after the debate, but why are you avoiding submitting a report on the government's work? Why have we never had that report on the agenda?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-03-0.u24571	People's MP, there's no breach of article 213. Rules of Procedure, since it's not even a condition to consider these points. Secondly, it is true that the Serbian Radical Party is not taking part in the Committee's work, but I argue that the committees have considered 16 ministry reports, which have been submitted to the National Assembly so far. So you can ask around and you can get those reports. If you are not satisfied, the Administrative Board may answer you. There you go, but you can't advertise the same injury. You can't do the same thing twice.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-03-0.u24572	You have now injured the Rules of Procedure, Mrs Micic, because the violation of the Rules of Procedure is being declared by the competent assembly board, and you are talking about committees here, that the committees have adopted reports from the government, the ministries. What does that have to do with what I'm saying? You abuse your function that way. It has nothing to do with what I said and don't do it. Let the committee in charge assess whether the Rules of Procedure has been injured, which the Government has been unable to report for two years, but not you. You weren't giving an explanation, you were incompatible, instead of giving an explanation of what you're entitled to, you're connecting incompatible things. The fact that we are not taking part in the Committee's work is because the parliamentary majority did not want in a correct way to distribute places on boards, the proportional composition of the National Assembly, because you first formed some committees, which you needed most, and left the rest of the board for later. You didn't want to make a deal, and we're not mad at that. You can do one, you can do the other. It can be a variant in which the parliamentary majority takes everything, and it can be a variant that is more appropriate to democratic principles to adapt the structure of the committee to the structure of the National Assembly. This is about the National Assembly in general. The committees can't replace the National Assembly. The committees exist to assist the National Assembly in its work, and you, when a committee is considering what comes as a report from the ministry, believe that the committee has replaced the National Assembly. It can't.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-03-0.u24573	The explanation for the advertising of the infringement of the Rules of Procedure is set out in Article 213(5). It's not bad that every time we learn something. "The National Assembly can decide on a proposal from the Committee, which discussed the government's report, that the review of the report should also be carried out at the National Assembly's session." There is no proposal for a committee to consider these reports at the National Assembly, and the committees discussed the reports. Let's get back to work. I would like to put to the vote the motion of MP Srdjan Petrovic to withdraw from the proposed agenda of this session item 2: – Proposal for a Law on the Final Account of the Republic of Serbia for 2001. A year. I ask the Members of Parliament to declare themselves by voting on this proposal. I'm closing the vote. For 103, against 93, with five abstentions, one, a total of 202 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal of MP Srdjan Petrovic. National MP Srdjan Petrovic, deputy president of the DOS parliamentary group Dr Vojislav Kostunica - the Democratic Party of Serbia, proposed to withdraw the 3rd item from the proposed agenda -- a draft law on the 2003 budget of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted to the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Serbia on 12 November this year. National MP Srdjan Petrovic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-03-0.u24574	The respected presidency, respected colleagues, gave the best explanation for this just before Minister Djelic. It is not logical to discuss the 2003 budget law without first adopting and not considering the final budget bill for 2001. By our decision to get off the agenda, point 2, we have just made a decision not to consider the final budget bill for 2001. I think you all agree that it's illogical to discuss the 2003 budget in this agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-03-0.u24575	Does the proposalor's representative, finance and economy minister, Mr Bozidar Djelic, want the word?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-03-0.u24576	There are bad and less bad things in Serbian political life. I must say that we adopted the budget for this year, that we did not, not because of the government, even in May 2001, propose the final budget bill for 2000. There was a report of a budget inspection that we could discuss. That's point one. However, it was then asked by DOS and DSS, at the time, to postpone the adoption of the final account until a full report of the budgetary inspection and to carry out some actions. That's why it's been delayed. Meanwhile, this year's budget has been adopted. So we'd better have the final bill in one year, then the budget. If we look at budget users, if we look at what is necessary for our country, we finally have the first chance to get out one budget in time, that local self-government has time to look at the budget on time, to prepare their budgets, that those living from the budget have some vision of what they're going to live on next year. I don't think it would be good not to vote on the budget. To note, under the Law on the Budgetary System, which adopted the House by a large majority of votes, including DOS and DSS in February this year, it is predicted that the Republic of Serbia's budget must be voted no later than 15 December this year. There's little time left. That's why I suggest that the law be placed on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-03-0.u24577	I ask the MPs before the vote to determine if we have a quorum. I find that the application of the electronic system has established that we have a quorum, that the session is attended by 197 MPs. I am putting on the vote by MP Srdjan Petrovic to withdraw item 3 from the proposed agenda of this session -- a draft law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2003. I ask the Members of Parliament to plead with the vote. I'm closing the vote. For 102 against 98, there were no abstentions, no two, a total of 202 MPs voted. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal of MP Srdjan Petrovic to withdraw the third item of the agenda. Finance and Economy Minister Bozidar Djelic reportedly.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-03-0.u24578	the proposal proposed under the emergency procedure, because if it is not logical to vote the budget before the final account, but it is absolutely not logical to vote on the participation of congregations in the sales tax, not to establish it by budget. [[unheard]] So I'm withdrawing a proposal that is an emergency procedure -- the participation of local self-government in the tax on profit and sales taxes. I'm also withdrawing the final bill for the year 2000 and the non-intentional spending report.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-03-0.u24579	We should have decided on another proposal, which is the proposal of MP Sinisa Mitrovica, who suggested that the 4th item of the agenda be withdrawn from the agenda -- a bill on a system of environmental protection, which was submitted to the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Serbia on 20 May. I ask the National Assembly to plead on this proposal. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote. For 154, there were two, no abstentions, no vote of 40, a total of 196 MPs. I find that the National Assembly accepted the proposal by majority of votes by the MP Sinisha Mitrovica. Since the finance and economy minister pulled two points from the proposed agenda of the Assembly, and the rest were removed from the agenda by the National Assembly, I conclude the fourth session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly. We have one proposal left, about the Sremski Karlovci. It's also adopted. Since there is one item left on the agenda - a proposal for a decision to appoint the president and members of the Committee on Reconstruction and Development of the Sremski Karlovac, we will work on that agenda point. I don't have a reminder ready for that. I've been setting a break for an hour. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please insert identification cards into your MPs to determine the quorum and continue the session. I'm guessing we have a quorum. Just one brief hearing notice. National MP Ivan Andric is on the basis of article 139. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, withdrew the motion for a decision to appoint members of the Committee on Reconstruction and Development of the Sremski Karlovac. That's how all the agenda points are pulled. I hereby conclude the fourth session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly. The next session will be next Tuesday. Thank you for your attention.
