ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20244	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 150 MPs attend the session. Please insert identification cards into your MPs to determine the quorum. I ask the People's MP, Srboljub Zivanovic, who holds the card in his hand, to insert the card. I figure we have a quorum and we can keep working. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the next National MPs Stevan Lilić, Branislav Pomorički, Slavoljub Matic, Pal Shandor, Zoran Boskovic and Branko Gligorić (afternoon). I am informing the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the meetings of the President, Vice-President, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Secretariat of Law. Also, according to members 83 and 84. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that I invited representatives of the Centre for Free Elections and Democracy, representatives of the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities of Yugoslavia, representatives of the Student Union of Serbia, representatives of the Alliance of Students of Belgrade, students of the Study Group for Constitutional Law at the Faculty of Law of the University of Belgrade, representatives of the National Movement "Resist", representatives of the Low Student Association and representatives of the Student Federation. We move to the 6th item of the agenda: - PROPOSAL OF THE UNIVERSITY (specificities) Members of the 13th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Toma Busetic, Zarko Obradović, Branko Ružić, Slobodan Tomović and Milan Stankovic. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does a representative of the applicants of the amendment want a word? Here you are, People's Messenger Tom Bushetic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20245	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with a group of SPS MPs, I have proposed, of course, on behalf of the SPS, that in Article 13 of the word "Government" be replaced by "The National Assembly". Let me remind you of what this is about: when the founder of the university, i.e. the university of the Republic, an act of establishment is passed by the Government. So we suggest that instead of the Government, the founding act is brought by the National Assembly. Here, I'll give you a brief explanation for why. First of all, we believe that this law has been well prescribed since 1992, and the 1992 law stipulates that an act on the establishment and abolition of universities or universities is passed by the National Assembly. If all this was so, why wouldn't it be built in now and why wouldn't we continue, because it's quite clear that when it comes to the Assembly we can control it, the Assembly is public, and when it comes to the Government, it's a completely different situation. I'd say one more thing, which may not like a lot of DOS people, but simply this government doesn't have the credibility to decide on such a big issue. You know, it's a government where one vice president is relieved of a sexual affair, the other is resolved because of a spy affair, a government where foreign citizens, such as Djelic, Pitic, sits in. I think these are important reasons, and I suggest you accept this amendment, so the National Assembly decides to adopt an act of establishment. As I believe the National Assembly should also decide on the abolition of universities or universities, because what is the situation, we can easily come to the position of DOS losing in local elections in Kragujevac, and then abolish the University of Kragujevac and make it in Novi Pazar, the example works itself. I suggest you adopt this, this is a good proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20246	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. Oh, yes, please, the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group, MP Bora Stanimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20247	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Presidency, indeed has reason to accept this amendment without practically changing anything about the government's position. It is certain that it is the National Assembly that has always decided on the establishment of universities and universities because these are covered in this way by many regions and then the right decisions are yet to come. I'm just going to give you a few examples, this is happening more recently during the term of office, and it's going to happen later that the government can, starting with some interest, some region or some pressure, open a college or the University of Malta at the end of the session during that second part of the work, a cabinet session. This is so much before you can see it here in article 15. The 1992 law -- an act on the establishment of a university, i.e. the university is passed by the National Assembly. Last time I said that the government accepted some members of the 1992 Law as a whole, mostly and that's good, but that's why it accepted what was right for her from this 1998 law, which was most criticised for various reasons, not to mention it now. It's the most important case here. Article 14. The 1998 law reads - When the founder of the university, i.e. the university of the Republic, the act of establishment is passed by the Government. Watch out, three members, 13, 14 and 15, from three laws. Article 14. In 1992, the 1992 Law says that an act on the establishment of a university, or university, is passed by the National Assembly, which is absolutely correct. I don't see why the government would enter college and deal with this problem, if it is known that the National Assembly is competent, competent that it has representatives from all over the Republic and that it can be affected through various other bodies; the government can, through the Republic Council, through the university, because universities have the opinion that it decides. I think you'd get a lot. The most criticism will be, and it was on this article and on two or three members of the 1998 Law. Which is why we are now allowing this to happen. Another question -- nowhere in this draft law that is now on the agenda is on the basis of which the Government decides; everywhere in the world, and also under the 1992 Law, it is decided on the basis of the drafts, on the need to set up a university. No, the National Council is the same as the Government, don't. But as far as the university is concerned, the National Council doesn't say it decides on the basis of the elaborates. You can't start a university, or a college without a lab. That is why I propose that this amendment be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20248	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Yes, the word has a People's MP, Vojislav Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20249	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment has opened up a very serious issue that cannot be resolved by an existing legislative project. The issue is a conceptal nature, and it concerns the management of the university, the control of the university. Will the university be under the control of the executive or legislative authority? What are the consequences? When the university is under the control of the executive government, so the executive power is too ideologically bitten, like this one, and still advocates lustration, to prosecute political opponents, and is openly spoken of, then it is very difficult for the executive government to manage the university from a point of view of social interests. As far as the legislative authorities are concerned, it should not, in principle, carry out administrative activities, but in certain situations, when it comes to particularly important national interests, such as governance of state television or the Academy of Science or some major institution of society, including the university, it would be possible, but it has other consequences. Then the government would not be able to delegate its part of membership to the administrative bodies of the university, but would be doing so by the National Assembly. Once, in communist times, the National Assembly, as I recall, has delegated to the communist councils of the university its representatives. She played, of course, democracy. Essentially, democracy is possible only if there is a multi-party system and if management of particularly important national institutions would be proportionate to the participation of a particular political factor in parliament, rather than proportionate to its power in the highest executive body such as the government. The amendment is interesting, but in my opinion, it's inconsistencies in this legal project. He's taking down this whole legal project. It is not impossible that this project will certainly be brought down at the most recent time, but it should then come up with a new concept of the law on the university that would be permanent and that would not depend on the change in the helm of the executive government, but would be a lasting value for any government in the future; something which, therefore, corresponds to both the authorities and the opposition, which is indisputable in the national interest. One who is in power at one point should think about what will happen when in a few months he becomes an opposition.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20250	Thank you. The word is from MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the DOS parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20251	Mrs. Micic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, very interesting remarks, not only because of the topic they are treating, but also because of the fact that they are completely contrary to the law that we are changing, trying to prevent further development of the degradation processes at our university. I'll remind you not all of what we've done opposing the adoption and adoption of the University Act in 1998, I'll remind you of one of his members, Article 14, which says that in the case of the establishment of a university, or a university whose founder is the Republic, the Government is making a decision on that. That didn't bother anyone at the time, at least no one who represented a part of the parliamentary majority. Of course it was necessary to agree on the elaborate and that consent was given, you'll assume, once again, by the Government through the Resort Ministry of Education. What are the differences between the proposals we support and what are the basics of opposing the amendment that actually retains the situation of 1998? Right in the function of the Republic Council to improve university education. It is not true that it is made by the executive authority, it is not true that the executive authority has most of its representatives in it, because it has very clearly established the procedure for the election and the rectors and the proctors. It is known that the number of proctors and prophesies in Serbia and it is clear that the number of representatives of the government, namely the people appointed by the government, is far less than the number of representatives of the university. This is actually about replacing the thesis that is trying to defend the undefense. You know, sometimes people who can't get into college went to other jobs, and they're aware of some of their flaws and shortcomings, looking for justification in another kind of engagement. For a time, however, we lived in a country where people changed the law so that they could be teachers. Today, when we talk about a new law, they understand that the privileges arising from usurped law are lost, among other things, through the 1998 University Act. There is no such thing as our support, and I urge you to read the 1998 law, which as the parliamentary majority you then adopted, and to see what the fundamental differences between what we are doing and what you are doing and what is the core of your unprincipledness, which is not frightening, but it is worrying.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20252	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Yeah. ) Here you are, the word has a minister of education and sport, Mr. Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20253	One of my professors knew he was talking - if Pera was defending me, something with my opinion was wrong. We came into such a situation to be defended by someone who questioned my way of thinking, but good. The government law says the government represents the Republic. It's true what Mr. Jovanovic said, that he didn't mind, then this is about an individual act. As such, he arranges mutual relations. One more thing I would like to draw your attention to - the Legislative Committee of the Assembly said that this is not legally possible. Hence, there are many reasons indeed, but there are also systemic reasons that do not allow the congregation to make a decision on this. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20254	Since no one's answering for a word anymore, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 33, against 126 abstentions, there was no vote of 14, out of 173 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The applicant of the amendment wants a word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20255	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 13, where I ask to be in position 2. The bill is deleted by the words "whose founder is not the Republic". The provision of the bill is absurd - if the citizens of the budget finance the establishment of a university or university, there is no need to be a justification for the establishment, and if someone creates it with their own capital, it must prove by means of an embossed justification for the establishment. As he told us in his opening statement, Minister of Education Gašo Knezevic, the tax bonds will have insight into how funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget are spent on universities. In Article 13. The bill puts the government of the Republic of Serbia in the category of infallible authority that is not obliged to bring an elaborate on the justification for the establishment of a new university. Everyone else who does it with their own money has to do the elaborates on the justification for the establishment of the university. The money at the disposal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia does so in such a way that it does not have to account for anyone and demonstrate justification for the establishment. Why should I trust the government? What the government of Zoran Djindjic has assured me, except that there are spies and traitors of their own people. What did the Minister of Education, Gašo Knezevic, convince me, for whom it is not known reliably whether his country is beginning to feel like its own? Is the university autonomous or are there political commissioners who regulate relations on it? As soon as the minister got his hands on the authorities, the first thing he did was run from the university of one for whom there was never a dilemma in which he experienced his country. (President: Please return to the topic, and this is your amendment to Article 13.) He drove Dr. Vojislav Seselj out of college. He mentioned Marques - "The Colonel has no one to write." It looks like "the colonel has someone to write," but there's no one to offer him a drink. Mr. Prince, an educated man is the one with the cheek. Are you, Mr. Minister, an educated man?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20256	Is anyone else answering for word on this amendment? The word is made by MP Vojislav Seselj, president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20257	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this member shows, and the SRS amendment submitted proves that the titoists have really returned to power. Titoists need a social justification for starting a university. They're looking for a draft on justification, but only from private founders of colleges and universities. What does that justification mean now? No one even thought about it, certainly, and the minister doesn't understand it. What aspect must justify the desire of a single subject, a private, legal person, a natural person, a man of an individual, who wants to establish a university or university? Do I need company for the people of that kind? Is that perhaps the need? What's justification, what's justification? Is it justified if someone, for some ideal reasons, wants to form a college where top education will take place, even if no specialization in the practice is followed. Is there a possibility that someone is involved in science for science and education for education? That's what you, as a titoists, don't understand. That's what you say, that society doesn't need so many and so many thousands of highly educated people. How do you know what to do? You're counting vacant jobs, so you say it takes as much and as much, or you predict how many jobs there are going to be, so much and so much, instead of putting things the other way around. It's the right of every single person to get whatever education they want based on their abilities. If he wants to be a lawyer - to become a lawyer, if he wants to be a doctor - to become a doctor, if he wants to be an engineer - to become an engineer. Then he'll be on the labour market looking for a job, and maybe he won't even want to do it. But it is his right, if he has the ability, to acquire appropriate qualifications and an appropriate level of education. That's what you don't understand and what you'll never understand, because your way of thinking is too semblanced. That's why the question of justification here is pointless. You mean when the government opens college, and we've had a lot of political projects in the past and these and similar species, that's something where justification is meant. If someone wants to start a college now where they're going to deal with purely pure philosophy, study pure philosophy, educate people, etc., you can say that there's no place for society to hire these people. What's it to you? You, on the other hand, by conducting some successful reform procedures in the economy, create these conditions. Open your jobs as promised, and do not fire 700,000 workers, which you are now doing. If someone wants to form a college for some ideal reasons and initiative, and the other wants to study at that university, why would they prove you justifiable. There's a reason here to determine if something really can be a college based on a curriculum, based on a teaching program. It can be prescribed how many experts must have the appropriate profile and appropriate professional and scientific equipment, or scientific calls. So you can prescribe formal reasons, and basically, you're least competent to come in. Then why are you coming in? Explain what justification means, from what aspect of justification? Why does someone with money, who can raise a building, who can hire professors, who has a serious curricula and a program, have to convince you that it's justified for him to start a college? For some idealistic reasons, it's found, and it's over. What do you care?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20258	Anybody else answer for a word? The word is from MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the DOS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20259	Mrs. Micic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, I agree that someone can follow the course of their personal desires, so if he wants to be a duke, he can be a duke; if he wants to be a Belarusian academic, he can be a Belarusian academic; if he wants to be a professor of law school, he can be a professor of law school, but only until it is determined that he is not an expert. That is exactly what the function of the Republic Council is to improve university education, to assess whether anyone with a personal desire has the right to pursue that personal desire in such a way as to endanger social interests. We lived in a country where people, following some of their own personal impulses, fought the world, changed our lives, and eventually led us to a situation to discuss something that was completely nonsensical. So again, the 1998 Law, again a member of the 14th Law, again a law under which, for example, some people sitting here today at the Belgrade University Management Board, the Faculty of Economics Management Board, were professors in Pristina, professors in Belgrade, all at the same time. Here, today we talk to them, and in doing so they ask us to forget the law that they've all actually usurped the freedoms they've given themselves. So, ladies and gentlemen, in Article 14. The 1998 law you just applied, the truth partially wrong, this principle. For universities established by the Government, or the Republic, you also need an elaborate and verification, but not an independent body, which is the case with this bill of law, but the Ministry of Education, or you as members of the Government; so you yourself have decided on the universities you will be making, the diplomas and titles you will be giving yourself. Today you say, "So what?" Go and treat yourself to those doctors you gave your professors' diplomas to, the assistants you gave your patients in your hands, and that's how you got us into the position we're in today. So, if you're, say, ready to follow your motives, organize lectures for students who are willing to come to these lectures, but we're not going to verify that right, because we don't have any right to do that, since we're obliged to follow common sense. As academics of the Belarus Academy, the Ukrainian Academy, correspondence members who know what, continue on that path, but our support for this will not be obtained.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20260	The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj, a violation of the Rules of Procedure, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20261	You've injured the Rules of Procedure, first of all, by allowing the unnamed academics of the Belarusian Academy of Sciences to mock themselves. (President: Mr. Seselj, which member? ) Article 101. Cedomir Jovanovic should state the name of the Belarusian academic who it is and why it does not support his calling. Secondly, it should say who should go to treatment, whether a junkie, whether a senior student who has been studying for more than ten years, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20262	Mr. Seselj, you didn't get the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20263	I warned you that you violated article 101. If a failed student can read lessons here, and he's been studying for more than ten years, and if someone who's a proven junkie can refer someone to treatment, then it's terrible.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20264	Mr. Seselj, you already have two warnings. Next is taking away words. Please take care of what you say.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20265	First of all, I have proof. When someone is said to be a drug addict, it's not a fact of private life, especially if it's a public and political...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20266	Mr. Seselj, on the basis of Article 103, I take your word. Please leave the pay phone. Mr. Seselj, please leave the pay phone, I have taken your word. Since MP Vojislav Seselj doesn't want to leave the pay phone, I'm setting a ten-minute break. [[After a break.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen, please insert identification cards into your MPs to determine the quorum. I figure we have a quorum and we can keep working. Before we continue the discussion in detail and the amendment decision, I have one proposal. This is the application of Article 102. The National Assembly, on the proposal of the President of the National Assembly, may, without further ado, impose a measure of distance from the session, and on the basis of Article 105. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which says that the measure of distance from the session is expressed to the MP who, even after the measures of confiscation, interferes or prevents the work of the sitting, does not respect the decision of the President of the National Assembly to withdraw the words or continues to commit other violations within the meaning of Rule 103 of this Rules of Procedure, as well as in other cases to the Rules of Procedure, I propose to the MP Vojislav Seselj, the president of the Serbian Parliament Group of the Radical Party, the National Assembly to make a decision and to give the measure of distance from this session. I'm putting a motion to vote. For 98, against 11, the abstentions were not voted by 27, a total of 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted my proposal and decided to remove MP Vojislav Seselj from this session. We move on to discussion in detail and decision-making on amendments. We have reached Article 13 and the amendment submitted by MP Dragan Colic, who had his word by amendment, as well as by the president of the parliamentary group. Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 12, against 123 abstentions, five, 140 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposed amendment. Members of the 14th Amendment, together with the correction, were submitted by MPs Toma Busetic, Zarko Obradovic, Branko Ružić, Slobodan Tomovic and Milan Stankovic. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does a representative of the applicants of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Is anyone else applying for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 13, against 121 abstentions, there was no vote of five, a total of 139 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Toma Busetic, Zarko Obradovic, Branko Ružić, Slobodan Tomovic and Milan Stankovic. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The People's Messenger Tom Bushetić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20268	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a group of SPS MPs has proposed that the words "International Organisation" be deleted in article 16. I will read Section 3 where it is said: "The university, i.e. the university, can organise studies from its work in co-operation with a foreign university, university or international organisation". We think this is quite a broad term. What does the international organization mean? You know, we think that this should be defined precisely first, because under international organisations we can also imply co-operation, for example, with an international crisis group. The international crisis group or at the very top of the international crisis group is headed by Wesley Clark. Does that mean Wesley Clark comes to one of our colleges and gives a lecture? Let me remind you, the international crisis group has very clear views when it comes to our country. Unfortunately, we also have our representatives running an international crisis group, meaning in our country. They say Serbian and Yugoslav authorities must recognise Kosovo and Metohija's conditional independence; they say there is no co-operation with the Republika Srpska; they say it is necessary to reform in the military, of course it means that all the generals who defended our people in Kosovo and Metohija shift. It's an international crisis group. Does this mean that such an organisation can co-operate with some of our colleges, or this department of various international organisations in Serbia, run by Sonja Biserko, Natasa Kandic and other societies. For these reasons, either it is necessary to specify or delete "International Organizations".
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20269	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? The word has been made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20270	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, since you have always approached self-government, and by disturbing the truth spoken for this speaker, I will have to try to replace the president of the parliamentary group, while your arrogance allows me to do so, and in that sense, of course, without the illusion that I can convince you to accept any amendment, at least try to get to know the public (through all members we, and other parliamentary groups, have submitted amendments) by not setting out any goal that you will achieve through the proposal for a law on the university. So does this member of the law. I understand that universities and colleges co-operate both in the country and in the union with universities and universities, but write in one member of the law that they will co-operate with international organisations, and that the legislator did not qualify those international organisations, he did not specify what he considered an international organisation. Is it an international organization that has the power to exercise its power? Are the international organisation of the United Nations, the authorities of the United Nations or any group of countries calling themselves an international organisation? NATO is an international organisation under NATO's understanding, and not according to my understanding. It's a military organization that had a certain goal during the Cold War, turned it into a desire to enslave other countries in the world. Whether our universities will co-operate with NATO, that is, when they want to co-operate with them who, of those who care about law enforcement in this country, will tell them - you cannot co-operate with them. I can, that's what the bill says because it's vague and confusing. You have to predict exactly who a university or a college can co-operate with. What is it that he'll cooperate in? How is an international organization going to help our colleges? In student education? By our curricula and our programs? Is he going to be a donor of some programs at university or college and who's going to pay for it afterwards? What then of these children will be, how useful they will be in our country, or perhaps this will be like some foreign hunting ground where the noble savage will be re-exploited and transported abroad. Take a walk, if you can, along the streets, stand in front of a Western embassy, look at the lines and see the average age of those in line. By listening to you, I thought all our youth had left the country, as you were saying, and the people had been completely robbed, so none of these lies proved themselves. See how many young people now come out of the country in huge numbers because it is further facilitated by your collaboration with the world. But as for this co-operation with international organisations, I think the amendment promoter is absolutely right, and that you will vote to reject this amendment, because you do not know what the government wanted and you must not ask the Government, what is it that prepares for us to co-operate with our universities with international organisations. It is known who in one country, in one normal state, where everything is on sound foundations, is working with international organisations. They are not even political parties, and that is a certain kind of betrayal, when political parties co-operate with international organisations, with other states' governments. Governments co-operate with governments, political parties with political parties. But you've got it all upside down, it's all turned around. Here you have the truth spoken for by a pay phone disfellowshipping the MP from the National Assembly session and punishing 30,000 dinars.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20271	Go back to the subject, you have two warnings anyway, and the next is taking away words.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20272	It is being punished by 30,000 dinars of dragon penalty, which after generously the president of the National Assembly is being paid into the humanitarian fund. Let me pay my money in the charity fund. Don't punish me, so some kid out there knows he might have gotten help because my kids didn't get a full salary in the house.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20273	The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the DOS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20274	Mrs. Micic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm afraid we cannot explain our intentions to the critics of this law, because they don't want to hear such a thing. Otherwise, they would look at what they were doing when they passed the laws and they would see that they were actually criticizing a member of the law that had been unchanged for decades, because the essence of the university was in communication, and you didn't really compromise the 1998 Law, because you very clearly defined, established and specified the exact same topics as this article here. The university, i.e. the university, can organise studies from its own district, in collaboration with a foreign university, college or international organisation; a university or university in the field of its work; this does not mean the North Atlantic Alliance, of course not to include any other armed or any other alliance. It actually refers to the kind of collaboration without which the university loses its meaning. Knowledge does not recognise the limits and barriers imposed by borders and we have to respect and support such a thing, and we cannot argue. So, the idea of preventing university co-operation with international organisations, in which other countries' universities actually meet, people who think differently, but tend to the same goals, is notsens and something that is totally unacceptable to us. It is true that people are leaving this country, some are leaving, some are returning, but they are no longer fleeing from this country, nor are people being expelled from it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20275	The People's Messenger Tomislav Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20276	I think that you, as president of the National Assembly, must take care of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and that the dignity of the National Assembly, under Article 101, must be respected here. And, when the discussion of the University Law Bill is being held and the law on the university is being mentioned so far, keep it in front of you, Mrs. Micic, that law on the university, which is still in force, so that every speaker who misquotes it may receive a warning from you. Mr Jovanovic also did so while there was a debate on the Labour Law and on many other laws. He goes out for a pay phone...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20277	Mr. Nikolic, I gave you no right to a replica. You didn't get the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20278	I warn you not to follow the debate well enough, otherwise you would have told Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic, it is not a member of the 16th law so far, but of Article 19(2) and has deliberately left out part of the sentence that reads "with the consent of the Minister of Education". That's part of the sentence that's been going on so far. Here, today, if you wanted a college to co-operate with an international organization, you'd have to get the consent of the minister of education and sports. When this law comes together that you have proposed, it will not be necessary to agree. Then everything and everything will just happen. But since the law follows the fact, don't get attached to the 1998 Law anymore, much has changed since then. At that time, the NATO pact only arrived in Serbia with bombs, and now it comes welcoming at the airport, with the hands of our owners.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20279	He has the word MP Cedomir Jovanovic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20280	I apologize to my fellow Members, it's true that I was wrong, it's about article 19, and I think it's clear that we have so far established the absolute control that is present in the area of the University Law by the executive authority. Since it's referred to here as some kind of distance, which implies self-will at the university, we don't consider it arbitrary, we consider it an autonomy of the university. And as for the curricula, these curricula plans were adopted with the consent of the Ministry of Education and with the consent of the teaching - scientific councils of the university and the university. So, there won't be that kind of control that's been present so far, but the state, since it's the founder, will take care of the way our generations are educated. I accept this suggestion and correct myself, it's article 19. I didn't want to misinformed the MPs and our public.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20281	I owe you an explanation for the first breach of the Rules of Procedure. (He speaks to MP Tomislav Nikolic. ) If a member of 101 were strictly applied and if I were to make warnings about all the insults and all the facts of private life, all the abuses and all the lies that you make behind this speaker, your MP group would not have the right to say so. But I'll try to apply it as strictly as possible. The People's Messenger Tomislav Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20282	If every lie were punished here, we would no longer have a government. Every minister who came out here lied to us.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20283	You didn't get the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20284	Here, just to warn you that you have hurt the Rules of Procedure again, Mrs. Micic. Not only do you not know what the law now applies, but you, as president of the Assembly, do not even know what the bill that defends your MPs and ministers in the Assembly looks like. Educational plans are not adopted with the consent of the Government. The minister should have told you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20285	Which member of the Rules of Procedure did I hurt?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20286	You don't keep the dignity of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20287	Don't be silly, Mr. Nikolic, you've really gone too far. It is the abuse of the Rules of Procedure again, you have two warnings, the next measure is the taking of words, so I ask you to take care of what you say.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20288	I don't have the opportunity to punish you whenever you insult me. I am not funny to you, I am the People's MP of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The fact that my political views don't suit you, that my going out for a pay phone bothers you, that you'll have to make up an even more restrictive Rules of Procedure, but not that you tell me that I'm funny to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20289	You have no right to argue with me, Mr. Nikolic, you've been given your word on the breach of the Rules of Procedure, please state which member.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20290	If you don't warn the president of your MP group that he's telling the truth, then I have to, because the people remain convinced that the bill looks like what he said. Now, since I've been reading this bill and I'm not waiting for the secretary's advisor to suggest what I'm going to say about this pay phone, but I know what to say, I'm telling you now - college curricula plans are approved by the university. The university's curricula, the founders of private persons, only those curriculas are approved by the government of the Republic of Serbia, not by the curricula of those universities, whose founder is the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but it should be read and read well.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20291	Unfortunately, this advertising violation of the Rules of Procedure was actually abuse again. The word has a minister of education and sports, Mr. Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20292	The proposal of the SPS parliamentary group is given from the aspect of one general suspicion and xenophobicity. It's absolutely normal to co-operate with international organisations. In doing so, the concept of an international organisation is defined by international legal norms and there is also a convention term. Therefore, no one can say that something for him is an international organisation, rather rather something. Either it is, or it isn't. There is an objective criterion, and everything else is the arbitration and subjectivity of individuals. I can say that someone doesn't exist for me, and someone does, but it's objective whether they exist or not. The work that's being done is work from the framework of the university's work. Therefore, no one intends to build airports or anything like that with international organisations, but to teach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20293	Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 14, against 125, the abstentions were not voted 10, out of 149 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 19mandman were jointly submitted by MPs Bora Stanimirovic and Zarko Obradovic. The government and the Education Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MP Goran Cvetanovic submitted to the 19th amendment. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He's not there. Does anyone else want a word? I'm sorry, Mr. Wolfie, I can't give you my word. (Employee Wolfie, from the scene - why? ) In view of the application of Article 38(2), Read article 38 or do you want me to read it? He says "The delegation group is the president of the parliamentary group. The parliamentary group has a deputy, not a deputy, but a deputy president of the parliamentary group, who replaces him in the event of his absence. During the meeting of the National Assembly, a parliamentary group may authorise one of its members to represent a parliamentary group according to a specific agenda." You have a list of 23 members. This is invalid, I don't accept it anymore, so far I've tolerated it, and I don't want to take care of who's in the O.R. and who's not. Therefore, you have no right. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? [[Sagar.]] No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. (Alexander Vukic asks for a word in the Rules of Procedure. When we're done voting. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. For 16, against 115, the abstentions did not vote 19, out of 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Proposed by the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20294	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the terror you are conducting in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia must be stopped. I mean, you can't once, Mrs. Micic, act like you're doing business, act like it for six months, and then one day, because that's how it occurred to you, because someone whispered it to you in the hallway...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20295	That is because MP Tomislav Nikolic asked for strict application of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20296	Will you let me say what I have to say?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20297	I'm waiting for a proposal. You've been given the word to make your proposal, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20298	Then shut up, be polite until I'm done and act the way the president of the National Assembly should behave. So, six months, Mrs. Micic, the restrictive Rules of Procedure that you adopted on a proposal from the DSS parliamentary group, who thought it would suit them...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20299	Please let me hear the suggestion. You've got a word for the proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20300	Would you stop, be polite, I'll give you my proposal, but you can't guess or know what I'm going to suggest. So I urge you not to violate the Constitution. You just brought a measure of distance... The constitution, first of all... A measure of distance from the session against Vojislav Seselj, took away 32,000 dinars, which you will once again boast as if they were yours. Now, let me tell you, you also have a Article 38, which speaks as well as in what way it represents a parliamentary group. It's understood, you have a logical interpretation and you should know... These ignorant women would be better off silent than saying these... [[Sagar.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20301	Mr. Wolfie, I give you a warning. On the basis of Articles 101 and 103, and I ask you to keep an eye on what you're saying at the pay phone. [[growls]] To Article 20. The amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Toma Busetic, Zarko Obradovic, Branko Ružic, Slobodan Tomovic and Milan Stankovic. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 14, against 123, one abstention, 19 did not vote, out of 157 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 22. The amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Toma Busetic, Zarko Obradovic, Branko Ružic, Slobodan Tomovic and Milan Stankovic. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 15, against 130, there are no abstentions, 12 did not vote, out of 157 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 24. The amendment was submitted by MP Velimir Simonovic. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here's a word from MP Velimir Simonovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20302	Ladies and gentlemen, this is a very short member and I'll read it: "The university, or college, brings an annual work programme. The work programme is brought by September 30th for the next school year." I think that this member is completely unnecessary, that it is unnecessary administration, because what the university does, or university, comes from its curriculum and programme. This means that teaching will take place according to the current curriculum, that teachers should deal with it, that it is very difficult to plan at all, etc. And since it doesn't say here that these plans are being delivered to the Ministry, I don't know who needs it at all. And if they're even delivered to the Ministry, I'm convinced that no one will read it and it's unnecessary administration. I suggest we accept this amendment to delete this member.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20303	Thank you. Minister of Education and Sports Gašo Knezevic called for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20304	I'm surprised Professor Simonovic, because we've already discussed this on the Education Committee. It's about what the budget is about. You know we're designing the budget according to curricula and programs. We have to have some parameters and that's a request. There were already words on the board.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20305	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Here you go. You have no right to replicate. [[In the meantime, MP Simonovic is looking for a replica.]] He just gave you information that it's about the budget. Nothing has offended you or misread you. You have no right to a replica. The word has the deputy president of the parliamentary group, Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20306	I don't know if I'm misreading Professor Simonovic and whether I may be giving him the right to reply to this interpretation, but this amendment should be accepted because it should have been written here that this refers to an investment programme of work, to a maintenance programme, to roof covering, to a change of carpentry, to what you need a budget for. Like this, a member who speaks of a university, or university, bringing in an annual work programme, means nothing. If there are already curricula and if they are accepted by the university, or no one approves them, then why now this work programme? If this applies to the costs of the university, or university, which will have to cover the budget of the Republic of Serbia, then it is likely costs that have nothing to do with the basic programmes at the university, or at the university. It could be investment costs, a tiny inventory, which I already know what might be, but it's not an annual work programme. This provision of Article 24 is completely unnecessary and we will vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20307	The word has a minister of education and sports, Mr. Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20308	Method of financing and operating of the university, Article 130 and 131, final position of Article 131. - The means of performance during one school year are provided on the basis of an annual programme of university work, or university.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20309	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 18, against 128, there are no abstentions, 12 did not vote, out of 158 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 25 of the amendment. The Education Committee has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MP Bratoljub Janackovic submitted to the 25th amendment. The Government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For five, against 122 abstentions, there were no 33 votes, out of 160 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Branko Ruzic. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The applicant for the amendment is not present. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 16, against 124 abstentions, 19 of the 159 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Radojko Petrovic submitted to the 31st amendment. The government and the Education Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that it has become an integral part of the bill. The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Toma Busetic, Zarko Obradovic, Branko Ružić, Slobodan Tomovic and Milan Stankovic. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Do you want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Toma Bushetic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20310	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a group of SPS MPs suggested that a new position should be added in Article 32 after item 1: "In determining the number of students enrolled in the first year of the study, less than two-thirds of students whose education is financed from the budget cannot be determined." You know, now the situation is catastrophic. At every university, those who finance themselves from the budget are hundreds or 200, and self-financing is three or four times that. I think that such a policy is devastating in terms of the possibilities of all people who want to study, who are good students, that they can study because self-financing is high-priced. In our time, self-financing was 2,000, 3,000, and now it's from 30,000 to 126,000. So we propose that two thirds be compulsory students who will be financed through the Republic budget, and only one third be self-financed students. You know, this is one of the top socialist flows, and this is one mild repair, and at the time of our government, everything was free, and when we get back, we're going to re-introduce free education, free study.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20311	The word is from MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the DOS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20312	Mrs. Micic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, so it is practically impossible to mechanically determine the number of students and relations between them because what you will do if, for example, in school 2002/2003. A year of Belgrade University entrance exams, students who all came with the maximum number of high school points and students who will pass the admission exam with the maximum number of points. Does that mean we won't take one-third to provide room for one-third of the self-financed? There must have been a selection in education, and this selection has existed so far, in those areas that have gotten out of political control. We can't run a policy at the university through those attitudes that have, unfortunately, been very badly applied in the past few years, when the university's door was opened to everyone under parole that studying is free, free and without any answer to the question of what is being obtained, what is the level of college study and can you find a job for those who have diplomas? Today we are talking about a country that has 25,000 highly educated young people without any employment. We need a very precise entry policy at Belgrade University and at other universities, and we need a criterion, so a healthy selection. Self-financed students can study in those situations where the objective number of students enrolled in a certain year of study, i.e. for the first year of study, does not fill in students who have passed the exams in order to be able to get the call of a regular student. In all other situations, it is unfortunately not acceptable, perhaps at some private universities, but it is already another topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20313	The SRS deputy president, MP Tomislav Nikolic, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20314	This amendment should be adopted despite the intentional inaccuracy of representatives of the parliamentary group who support this bill. All you need to do is read Article 32's position and find that this year's admission exam does not determine how many students will be enrolled. Admission exams this year serve to determine the number of students to be enrolled next year. It's so much about enrollment policy. However, it is a very dangerous thesis that we have a lot of unemployed people who have finished college and that it takes rigorous conditions to get into college, so we're about to reduce the inflow of young people who get a college degree by the time we hire those who already have a degree, and they don't have a job. That way our nation will fail. We are obliged to educate children, we are also obliged to enable poor people from school, and how can we do so when a self-financed student only spends half the income in the family from which he comes. When you add to that the cost of housing, the cost of eating, when you add to that overpriced textbooks to which individual teachers process their students every year, which are the condition to pass the exam with a certain professor, then you will realize that only certain students will be able to study. Since only those with money will be able to study, you will, as you have so far, crush the level of knowledge needed to pass the exam, so that the professor does not come into the situation to say: this cannot be a professor, he has many students falling to the exam, so he can not even be a professor or be a renewed call. You know as well as I do that emergency professors don't have a permanent working relationship. The state has to decide whether they're going to educate children or not. You unnecessarily attack enrollment policy, which, at the time of the war, when children were exposed to all kinds of stress, allowed all children to study. The government of the Republic of Serbia has not registered any self-financed, no co-financed November. Now comes the second time. You all claim that now our people have a lot of money and that four, five thousand marks to enroll a student at any university, at any university, is not much for his family. To God, there's nine billion marks in the straws, so it'll all be taken out by parents to educate their children. Don't stop the kids from getting school. Only when many children learn and many children finish will you have healthy competition. It won't be what you rightly point out here, but it's the problem of society, that incompetents run the state, that teachers' children treat people even though they haven't acquired certain knowledge. You know that, too, who are the MPs here, how it becomes in many professions academically educated, and that none of that knowledge is in the man who got his degree at all. It won't happen when there's big competition and the salary depends on how much he contributes to his company. The time of social property is behind us, now the quality will determine whether a man will work, whether he will have a salary and how much pay he will have. To get quality you have to have quantity. You won't get quality from a small number of students. If that's what you want to understand. I think the amendment is good. It won't cost the state anything to lay down by law how many students, out of the numbers that you will determine for each school year in particular, will be on the so-called. Free studies. Know that free studies are not free of charge. Free elementary school is not a free elementary school. Parents grab their heads when a kid's supposed to go to school.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20315	The word has been issued by MP Bora Stanimirovic, an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group for this item of the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20316	Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to this amendment, I think my colleague Bushetic is absolutely right, because practically by not adopting this amendment, we do not have an entry policy. That means, one college can have 120 students from the budget, and 800, 1,000 or 2,000 self-financing students. Where's the class? We know there's one teacher on some classes. We were talking about reform, and there's practically no reform. So, even though we have seen this law as reform, this reform cannot be applied practically, because we are enrolling as many students as the university considers. Why do colleges resort, say, to enroll as many self-financed as they need money? Because the Ministry, because the government is not able to finance everything that is necessary and necessary. At that time, colleges themselves are managed by the government and the ministry, allowing them to write down practically how much they want self-financed students. The purpose of this amendment is that colleges are committed to students, and to students who are financed from the budget and to students who are self-financed. If you enroll from 2,000 to 3,000 self-financed students, who is able to organize teaching there, where there is teaching, where there is monitoring. We talked about test deadlines, so we asked to cut the number of test deadlines, and we see the students once or twice a year. Therefore, the government of the Republic of Serbia and the restoring Ministry of Education and Sports must accept the role of planning entry policy at all universities, starting with the material, human resources and the need of normal society in deciding how many students they will enroll. It's nothing new. Someone will say, we're going to Europe, I don't know, they're going to write down what they want. Yes, gentlemen, it is true, but what will happen if 2,000 or 3,000 students are enrolled in law school, in management, or I don't know what's current, etc. In the meantime, we'll close those basic colleges without which practically society can't. That is why I propose that this amendment be adopted, at least temporarily, as a transitional solution, so that the future Committee on Education and the Ministry of Education in time plan an entry policy for the next school year. Then it wouldn't be what's going on, and the Ministry and the Committee have already received an entry plan for 2002/2003. And when you look at it, you'll see that there's a huge difference between those students that are funded from the budget and students who are so-called. self-financed. Therefore, if the college obligations are exactly the same, then we will see that there will be absolutely no normal teaching and that all of this will be practically something that will be contrary to the interests of the ministry itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20317	Thank you. Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 15, against 120, there are no abstentions, no vote of 20, out of 155 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Dragoslav Boskovic and Stanko Kovacevic together submitted to the 34th amendment. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. You're withdrawing the amendment? Yeah. I find that the amendment to article 34 has been withdrawn. The 36th Amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Christodulo. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The applicant of the amendment wants a word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20318	Thank you. Article 36 states that a person who already has higher or higher education can re-enter a university without passing an admission exam. The disputed position 3 is that the dean is said to decide on the recognition of the exams passed, and paragraph 4 says that the person is entered under the terms of the prescribed statute of the university. So there is no question that something will be prescribed by the statute. It's just that the dean gets this discretionary right to admit exams to such faces. When it comes to a good dean, a good college, then it's nothing controversial, of course. When it comes to someone who is prone to corruption, this provision is a potential source of corruption. That's why it's better to have a law to cover all those holes, when some bad people come to the dean, so they don't corrupt. I suggest that this attitude be deleted. It will certainly be prescribed by the statute of the university in which these exams will be recognised.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20319	The deputy president of the parliamentary group, MP Tomislav Nikolic, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20320	The amendment of the MP should be accepted, but not for the reasons he has stated. I really can't accept an advance qualification that there are deans dealing with bribery, corruption. The amendment should be accepted because the dean is meant to decide which exams will be admitted or not. Someone has to decide in such cases. I would ask that every time any crime is mentioned, any violation of the law, you don't invest in someone who observes us and you say, "Yes, there are bribes and corruption, and they, by God, are fighting it, or should you say, don't put this in the hands of the deans because some of them will be subject to bribery and corruption, so they'll admit exams. So let's not give teachers the right to grade students, because some of them will be subject to bribery and corruption. You can't build a system based on individuals that no one here has ever identified and said that he's both a team and a team, so we can all convict him here.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20321	Mr. Gašo Knezevic, Minister of Education and Sports, spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20322	The Dean makes this decision in the administrative procedure. The one who set foot more seriously in college knows that decision is not made by the dean. The decision is proposed by the departments who usually compare the programme of the university from which the student comes with his own programme, determine whether the material is identical and make a decision. It's just a question of who will formally make the decision. That's the dean, because he's in law school.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20323	I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 25, against 99, two abstentions, 29 did not vote, out of 155 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Nenad Lemajic, Milan Radulovic, Bojana Aleksic, Dragoljub Vojnović and Vladimir Andric together submitted the 36th amendment. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? The People's Messenger Nenad Lemajic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20324	While Mr. Christodul's amendment, which I would say is very good and regulates this matter for which, as Mr. Knezevic says, everyone who works at the university knows that the department decides about this matter and that it is strictly related to the profession, not the administrative procedure. We have made an amendment to item 3 that the word "decan" is replaced by the words "teacher-scientistically larger, i.e. teaching-art major colleges, on the proposal of the commission they educate". We think this is a much better solution than the existing one and that this is a solution that fits practice in college. There's no need for the dean to do a formal job that will in practice do cathedrals and teaching-science councils. We think it should be formalized this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20325	The word has the Minister of Education, Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20326	This is about the administrative procedure in which the dean signs the solution. It would be the same if the diploma were signed by the scientific and teaching council. Let us understand each other. So here, they're legitimateized by signature, as a party in some future administrative dispute that can trigger an unsatisfactory person. It can't be teaching-science bigger. A teaching-science major is an expert body that cannot make decisions that are legally, I mean, it shouldn't be able to do anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20327	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? The word has been issued by MP Bora Stanimirovic, an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20328	The minister explained, and it's my turn to support one of the ministers. It's about a practical situation. It's simply impossible for the teaching-science council to decide on whom to confess the exam or not. No dean will surely do so unless he consults the department, the teacher, unless he has looked at the university's programme in the field of recognition. When he compares his university program, if he has more than two-thirds of the content that corresponds to the university's program, then he can admit, with the consent of the teachers. Everything else is very difficult to achieve. Imagine one teaching - scientific council that has 60 or 100 people, that everyone tells their opinion whether they will be recognized, especially in the West and the world that people have the right to attend other universities, so they are recognised, and we cannot at a certain university, in the same university, only in another city. So I suggest that this amendment not be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20329	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 33, against 88, the abstentions were not voted 32, out of 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Dragoslav Boskovic and Stanko Kovacevic together submitted to the 36th amendment. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The word is submitted by the amendment, MP Dragoslav Boskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20330	The Honorable Presidency, Mrs. Micic, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, obviously this is a small problem, but it has caused a lot of controversy. Based on the debate that we from the PDS in Nis have led with the colleges that have this problem, it means that they have parent colleges, such as philosophical and natural mathematically, we have just set up a proposal for this amendment, that before deciding on the deans of which they will recognise the previously obtained opinion of the departments in question. That's all that matters. It should be quite true this way - based on the obtained opinions of the relevant departments of the Faculty of origin for the subjects of the study which are the subject of the teacher’s recognition or opinion on the mentioned items, unless there is a mother’s department at the university. The law is the law, and the law says it's the dean. So, by law, he doesn't have that obligation. This is how the dean's obligation is made to at least at these colleges to get this opinion.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20331	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 39, against 72, the abstentions were not voted 36, out of 147 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 37th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Toma Busetic, Zarko Obradovic, Branko Ružić, Slobodan Tomovic and Milan Stankovic. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is anyone answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 12, against 108, the abstentions were not voted 26, a total of 146 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 39 of the amendment. The Committee on Education has adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MP Velimir Simonovic submitted to the 39th amendment. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is by MP Velimir Simonovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20332	So I don't answer again for a word later, I'm going to refer to three of my amendments that have the same meaning. It is an amendment to Article 39 relating to the deadlines under examination, where I propose for regular students only three deadlines, and for graduates and more, let the university decide on its own; then to Article 43, where I suggest that during the course of the study the student can repeat only one year, if it is financed from the budget, and not two as provided for by the law, and to Article 50, where I propose that the insolvency period can last six months. All three amendments have the same meaning, and that's that the study regime gets a little bit sharper. So that it doesn't come out of my presentation yesterday that I'm something special to students, I want to comment on this. What's this about? This is where we heard from this pay phone, and otherwise we keep talking about how young our future is -- well, it's indisputable we all know, but we need to prepare our students for the future they're about to have. How? What is the duty of the state, or the university? To provide students with quality professors, to provide curricula and programs, modern and savvy, to provide a scholarship if the state can, to provide homes for those who meet the conditions, etc., and when we make sure that all of this is required for students to study.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20333	The word is made by Minister Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20334	Several parliamentary groups, or MPs, have proposed an amendment to this article. It's the result of our old illness to count the deadlines and always compare to the West, say there's one deadline, there can be laid down once. I'm not saying it's not true, but the teaching organisation is absolutely different there. There's modules, there's three semesters, there's one man giving a lecture for four weeks, six weeks or three weeks intensely, and then the student takes that exam at his place immediately. So there is absolutely another system compared to us and from that aspect systems are incomparable. Babes and frogs, it's little to say that it's the addition of grandmothers and frogs. There's a government amendment. The government has respected the university's objections that certain deadlines are tearing their school year apart. For example, the biggest remarks are on April's test schedule that splits the second semester so that it excludes children from school, they prepare exams and don't go to class. That's why our proposal is flexible enough, it's up to colleges to set those extra deadlines. Three are fixed by the legislator, and two are left to the university that he, each for himself, determines them, taking care of his technology. That's the government's proposal, and for all the other proposals (I know that MPs will now report to you thinking it's best for them) I'm telling you -- don't grab on to the West, the West has a whole other system, and when we get there, we'll do that.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20335	You don't have the right to a replica, you're not mentioned in the presentation. The minister just reminded me and it is my duty as chairman under Article 84(2) to inform the National Assembly that we have just adopted an amendment to Article 39, which reads: "The test deadlines are June, September and January, as well as two test deadlines which the university, i.e. the university, determines in accordance with the course time". With the National Assembly's decision a few minutes ago, this is what Article 39 looks like, so it's my duty to remind you that we have that in mind. National MP Velimir Simonovic, a replica minister for misreading his presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20336	Mr. Prince, I don't compare grandmothers and frogs, nor do I keep calling Europe, America, but we need to strive for that. Not to copy some European or American university, but to strive to create such conditions for students, and then to require them to work. How can you suggest that someone who is financed from the budget can repeat two years? Imagine a simple calculation - the technical college takes five years, give the student two years to repeat and that's seven, so the year of the graduate - that's eight, and when he's going to graduate. Don't at least explain to you, if someone needs someone else, that if someone doesn't become an expert in their profession by the age of 30 or 35, they'll never become an expert. We need to get the students to graduate at the age of 22 or 23, to finish college, and by the age of 30 to become affirmative experts.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20337	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20338	We have to respect Professor Simonovic for what he proposed and I think university teachers are right when they ask for that number of test deadlines to be reduced -- not only in April here, it is also October -- because there is practically no teaching during these deadlines. But yesterday, I was saying that we can only reduce those deadlines if we meet many other things: if the teacher's function changes, if the student's role changes, if our students can absorb a piece by piece, so that the test period is formally served to them, to introduce an evaluation. For everything else we will have great resistance, not students, but it will happen that we will not be able to enter the second, third or fourth year if we reduce the October, or April deadline. That is why I propose that this proposal remain.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20339	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 14, against 110 abstentions, he did not vote 21, a total of 145 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Predrag Canovic submitted to the 39th amendment. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I remind the MP that the National Assembly has adopted the amendment to the government. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 8, against 110, the abstentions were not voted 28, a total of 146 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 39th amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Sikimic. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? (The emissary withdraws the amendment, making it stop being the subject of discussion in particular. ) On Article 41 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Christodulo. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There's a word from the People's Messenger Miroslav Christodulo.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20340	The proposal is, therefore, that the two last positions in this article be deleted. This member speaks of the rules of basic studies, i.e. on the student's obligations to attend school, to carry out pre-examination duties and to obtain the right to attend classes in the summer semester. This is nothing controversial. We believe, otherwise, that in the principle of several basic law students and students should be prescribed by law, because that is how the state guarantees their fulfillment, while detailed obligations of students and teachers should be prescribed by the statutes of universities and universities, because they are objectively not the same for all scientific and artistic areas. For example, at the Faculty of Electrical Engineering you can't take electronics if you haven't done the exercises, it doesn't make sense, you just have to go to these exercises and it should be an obligation, of course, prescribed by the statute of the Faculty of Electrical Engineering. For example, at the Faculty of Mathematics you can sit at home and practice assignments and not go to any lectures and exercises, and you have all tens. So, at the Faculty of Mathematics, it was never an obligation to go to it, and it was prescribed by law. I suggest this is how it is resolved; therefore, that only a third position remains which says that conditions for overusemester and years of study are prescribed by the law of the Faculty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20341	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? There is a word from MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20342	This is really about reregulation; one matter to be referred to the statute should not be regulated by law. Indeed, the first and second positions of the article 41 are surplus, a team before attitude 3 is clear - it only confirms both the first and the second, and everything that is not written. Who knows what else could have been written here. But of course the statutes of the university will regulate when the winter semester is confirmed, when the year is confirmed, why would it say that in the bill? Does that mean the statute won't regulate that at all? I think the Government of the Republic of Serbia should have accepted this amendment, not to refer the amendment to the rights and obligations arising from the rules of study, because the rights and obligations stem from the statutes, which means, if something has to be regulated by the statute of law, because it is not the same for all colleges, then it should not be in the bill at all, as excess matter.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20343	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I am putting the amendment to article 41 to the vote. For 36, against 76, a abstentioned one, was not voted 29, out of 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 42nd amendment, in the same text, were brought together by MPs Jakov Stamenković, Dragisa Popovic and Anita Beretic, and the amendment with correction was submitted jointly by MPs Toma Busetic, Zarko Obradović, Branko Ružić, Slobodan Tomovic and Milan Stankovic. The Government and the Education Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, and I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The Government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 42 of the amendment. The Committee on Education accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee did not consider this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, want a word? There's a minister's word, Mr. Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20344	This is a related or consequent amendment, which, due to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Assembly of the Seas, is now in the process of laying down the draft laws. We adopted part of the DSS amendment, and when we adopted it, then we had to react accordingly, to make the right member the way we wanted to, and that's why this amendment, which is now on the agenda. So the DSS proposal was passed, and it became part of the law, and then we put our bound, consequent amendment. The problem is that the Legislative Committee was scheduled yesterday for 14.00 hours and cancelled due to a lack of quorum for today, for 14.00 hours. I don't know, and I can't advise you, the chairman, what to do in this case.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20345	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? There is a word from MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20346	The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia are clear, the government cannot give amendments to which it will align already accepted amendments. Only one committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia can do that. The government is not authorized to give new amendments to which it will coordinate. I also prepared for a later discussion. You even, when you accept some amendment from the MPs, you are already giving your amendment member that regulates it later, and you say, the need has arisen because an amendment of Members of Parliament has already been accepted. The Government's acceptance of the amendment is not an accepted amendment. The amendment was accepted when it was accepted by the National Assembly and only then was the need to comply with other members, amendments submitted only by the body of the National Assembly, no longer by the Government. Therefore, no government amendment (and you, of course, do not pay attention) that has, for an explanation, what the minister has now said cannot even enter the procedure. He can't. It is known when amendments are made to the draft laws - until the start of the debate of the draft law by emergency procedure or three days before the debate of the law in the ordinary procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20347	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) I am putting the amendments to Article 42 to vote. For 102 against 6, two abstentions, not 33, out of 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has by majority accepted the amendment to Article 42, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The 43rd amendment was submitted by MP Velimir Simonovic. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Does any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I am putting the amendment to the vote and asking the MPs to plead. For 12, against 101, a abstentioned one, was not voted 29, out of 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 43rd amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He's not there. Does anyone else want a word? The word has been made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20348	National MP Veroljub Arsic is today, along with all MPs of the Serbian Radical Party, except Gordana Pop-Lazic and myself, at the funeral of Federal MP Vlajko Stojljkovic. That's why he can't defend his amendment, but it would be good if you didn't throw it at me right now. Now you can, now I'm going to move on to the amendment. So, listening to the debate of the government's representative, the ruling majority in this House, one must wonder if individuals here are tearing themselves apart as individuals. The seemingly state does not have enough money, it has to pay much attention to how many students will be enrolled, which will be funded from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and then submitted to us Article 43. It's a bill that puts all this stuff under the table, because that article 43. The bill of law, you'll allow me to say it harshly, and I can calculate it, enables our children to study for at least 10 years, to study for at least five years from the budget, and not graduate from college. You say-- the student enlists to be financed by the state. The bill allows him not to pass the first year, to repeat it - again from the budget, not to pass it, then he is obliged to sign it up as a student who is self-financed. If he lays it down, he re-enters the second year as a student who is financed by the budget, and again has the right twice not to pass it, and then once again to enroll as a student who is financed himself, to make that year over the year, to stay for the third year... How long will that take? Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, do you want children who will finish colleges or who will have moral justification as well as their parents? You're all parents -- well, some of you haven't arrived at that stage yet, there's plenty of young people -- but when your kid loses a year in high school, when he's a repeater, you have a debate with him, you see what's wrong, it's not in bad company, what happened to your kid to repeat the year. The moment she graduates from high school, thanks to the circumstances and the company's shoulder, it's no longer a tragedy for you when a child loses a year. That's normal now, because, here's what the law suggests, he himself says that one year must be given at least two years. Why is that? Are you going to fund all the students, the good students, the ones who are going to finish college, or are going to repeat the mistakes of 1998, that children lose their lives in colleges, and when they look in the mirror, at 30, they don't even know where they're going to go. You ask yourself, why don't we have children in Serbia? Well, who goes into marriage when they're 32 or 33? He went to college for 15 years, and he didn't finish anything. The Serbian Radical Party's amendment is clear. What are you asking me? [[growls]] You see, I'm done and you see how well I'm discussing. It's obvious I have knowledge. The Serbian Radical Party's amendment is clear. When a child loses a year, he has to sign up as a student who's self-financed. If one is enrolled as a student who is self-financed and that year acquires conditions for enrollment in the following year, he has the right to enroll as a student who is financed by the budget, and never again. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, That's why kids lose a year. This member is crucial for years of college studies, very important, very important. You can defend some members of the law so that the state doesn't have the money to finance a student, but I don't know how you're going to waste state money in this law, which is irrelevant to me. It's much more important to me what happens to children, who you call to lose a year, to lose two years, to pay only one, and then to lose two states again, and to pay only one, and to lose two and so on forever. If parents sit in parliamentary groups, who care not only about their budget but also about children who have been given God's will, you will vote in favour of this amendment. And if you follow, I don't know what kind of discipline or any other motives I can't recognize, if you listen to a proposing representative who comes out here and says he's a legislator, then vote whatever you want.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20349	The word has a Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20350	I have no reason, nor have I been courting students in my life. If the previous speaker had been my student, he would have known that, but he wasn't. So, I'd say the following -- the spirit of Article 43, paragraph 2, actually goes into step with this particular DSS proposal. Let me be perfectly clear - we can't tighten up to the limits of the conditions of study and ask students to do more and more unless we reform ourselves at the same time. So we need to balance rights and obligations. If we could just impose obligations, without giving the right, we'd go in the wrong direction. This isn't a student courtship.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20351	Replica, MP Tomislav Nikolic, and the basis for the replica is the presentation of Minister Gaša Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20352	I don't know if it's plus or minus that I wasn't a student of Mr. Knezevic, but if it hadn't been for this, it would've been Professor Gašo Knezevic I couldn't have guessed that you were a professor of Law School.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20353	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? Nobody. I put this amendment to the vote. For 11, v 108, a abstentioned one, did not vote 25, out of 155 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Stevan Kesejic submitted to the 44th amendment. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Please, the word has been made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, as deputy president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20354	We're not against this article 44. In the text of the legislator, which he offered to the National Assembly, we introduced a further precision of the provisions of Article 44. So it's obvious that the costs of college are due to a student who repeats a year are not the same as the costs he has for a student who first enrolled (no lectures, he listened to the year, so there's not so much cost for him), but we wanted to make sure that the costs he had to pay won't be higher than the ones when he first enrolled that year. By reading this provision, it turns out that college can order a student to pay for the re-year that you want the amount. We're trying to limit that amount to just the level of the amount the student pays when he enters for the first time that year. In order to be sure that this amendment is rejected by the MPs who are indeed present in the hall, I ask that before the vote on this amendment we determine the quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20355	Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Tomislav Nikolic has not submitted a valid proposal to determine the quorum. So you have to give an explanation why you're looking for a quorum. Explanation -- there aren't so many people in the O.R., business isn't orderly. Since you asked for strict application of the Rules of Procedure, please make an orderly proposal a second time. I now put this amendment to the vote. For 12, against 102 abstentions, he did not vote 31, out of 145 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Tomislav Nikolic, as deputy president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20356	Since the majority in this congregation treats the National Assembly session as a lawsuit for which I need to edit my proposal, here is the proposal I have made for you for a moment. I followed the results of the vote and found that in the fifth row, to the wall, someone voted against, and there is no MP there, and therefore I ask that the quorum be determined.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20357	Again, you have not made an orderly proposal to determine the quorum, you have expressed your suspicion, your personal, and the question of quorum is being addressed to certain members of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. When you quote this member of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, then we have a proposal that I understand, and so far you've had a proposal for personal impressions. National MPs Dragoslav Boskovic and Stanko Kovacevic submitted to the 45th amendment. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. National MP Stanko Kovacevic withdraws the amendment, which stops being discussed in detail. Members of the 46th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Toma Busetic, Zarko Obradovic, Branko Ružić, Slobodan Tomovic and Milan Stankovic. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Does any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 12, against 97, the abstentions were not voted 29, out of 138 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 50th Amendment was submitted by MP Velimir Simonovic. The MP withdraws the amendment, which ceases to be the subject of discussion in particular. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 51 of the amendment. The Committee on Education has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, and I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MP Srdjan Sikimic submitted to the 57th amendment. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Does any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) I am putting the amendment to Article 57 on the vote. For 9, against 89, the abstentions were not voted 39, out of 137 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Srdjan Sikimic submitted the amendment to Article 58. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Does any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 8, versus 90, two were abstentions, not 35, out of 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 61st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Toma Busetic, Zarko Obradovic, Branko Ružić, Slobodan Tomovic and Milan Stankovic. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Does any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 10, against 100, the abstentions were not voted 24 out of 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Miroslav Christodulo, Vladimir Dobrosavljevic and Igor Soldatovic submitted together to the 64th amendment. The Government and the Education Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, and I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MP Milorad Mircic submitted to the 64th amendment. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He's not here. Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20358	Of course, it was to be expected that those who were very often and for a long time using students were constantly telling them that they were threatened, that they had no rights at all in college, other than to learn and to take exams, that their word was very important, those who had been educated abroad for political fights in colleges, on the day they came to power at least declaratively, and this member did, show that they would repay those who brought them to power and show themselves through this law as people who cared for students and who would want students to vote for them most. Through the behaviour of the government of the Republic of Serbia, which "in a good way" visits only secondary schools, they also show that they care about high school students, since there can be more voices of young people who can take over so much that they do not understand what a difficult situation the state is in because it has such power. The provisions of article 64 speak of some student parliament, to call a student organisation - parliament - you also need to pass a law on that parliament, so that the law on the university one of its members with a dozen views speaks of parliament. It's just a colorful lie for our children, and especially for those representatives, so-called representatives of students who have and their student political organization, who are, but I can't even recognize them in this National Assembly anymore, all friends with some of you who are in power and very warmly kissing and welcoming, you're talking about actions you've done or you're going to perform, so it's quite clear that you've shared students with those who are for you and those who are not for you. The student parliament, according to you, will have an unknown number of MPs who will have a term of office of one year. So, every year, we will have elections for a student parliament that we don't know about at all by any of the electoral principles, or how many members will count, or how the student parliament's affairs will be done, but you say that the statute of the university, or the university, will regulate the work of the student parliament. How do you think students have autonomy in deciding their concerns, both in large part and in their behaviour, and in the statute of the university (which you know how to make and what students cannot decide at all) determine their freedom, the limits of their freedom. What will the student parliament do? They will elect and resolve students, representatives of students in university management bodies, university students, representatives of students in university management bodies, and will give a higher university, or higher university proposals concerning raising the quality of the educational process and submit objections to the organisation and way of teaching. Will a student who is not a student of the student parliament, who is a member of another student organisation, be able to make proposals for raising the quality of teaching? Will he be able to make remarks on the organisation and manner of teaching? Will a student individual be able to do that? I think we should do it. I think all students have the same rights, whether they participate in your aunts or not. Whether they're in parliament, whether they're in the Resistance, whether they're in this or that. All students should be given the same rights and the same obligations, not tied to any political option. The independence of students is intended exclusively for a member of 64th and nowhere else but, after that, by defining how many members they give in the councils. It looks like the autonomy of universities and colleges defined in Article 4 which says that the space of the university and its members is irreparable... (President: 5 minutes 30 seconds. )......................................................................................................... In accordance with this law, and this law did not continue to do so. I'd like you to be invulnerable to the university or university, the premises, the space, say he has treatment as a monastery. Then I'd understand, anyone who chases a student stops at the gates of a monastery and asks an iguman or an authority, will you give the fugitive... (President: six minutes. )......................................................................................................... He committed a crime, or not. So, in one sentence, space is harmless, and in 10 sentences, students have a parliament; so now you students, look forward, you're going to have the same crazy thing as we have here. Those who are in the majority may impose fines on you, may prohibit you from passing exams, if you say what you do not like who is currently in charge of a session of the National Assembly... (President: six minutes 30 seconds. )......................................................................................................... I'd love for the kids to teach the school, and these, in part, dirty jobs, to start doing what they do later.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20359	The word is from MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the DOS parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20360	Mrs. Comic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as MPs of one Parliament, we have no right to challenge the idea of parliamentaryism unless we say which one is the surrogate or to suggest some other form of regulation at the university. I'd like to see those MPs who will say we don't need a student parliament, we need a dictatorship at the university. The idea of a student parliament matured in a student protest in 1996. In 1997, the student parliament was inaugurated, in a direct secret election involving tens of thousands of students. The student parliament was a temple of freedom at the university. Regardless of the political prejudices that were present among the students, the student parliament has actually preserved the university that we need here in Serbia today, at least through the form of ideas - civilized, decent, tolerated, capable of understanding, but also ready to defend the basic principles of civil and democratic freedoms. So I ask you very specific questions, which would certainly remain at the level of an unacceptable answer if this amendment were to be supported. Who chooses a teacher's student? Who chooses a student proceded? Are we keeping the rules of the previous law? Will the Rector, by his decree, set up a student editor? Is the dean going to put the student proceded by his decree? It's something that's unacceptable. There hasn't been a student protest in the last decade of the HH century without being asked to leave both the rectors and the proctors' students. Very rare examples of students who supported their fellow students in the field of prodecana and opposed the will of the party, which was conducted at universities. The student parliament must have its very clear function. The post has already been specified by the draft law on student organisation that will be before the MPs of the republic's parliament. By adopting this amendment, we would make such an idea impossible in advance. So you don't have to tie your hands to the students. It is necessary to cultivate parliamentaryism in every segment of it, including at university level. In doing so, this should be done carefully, through respect for the law on student organisation that will be the subject of our conversation. The student parliament is a temple of freedom and democracy, a temple of civil rights, and has been at the university for the past few years and thus in our society. That's why he deserves our respect. This is one retroactive, so black, but retroactive recognition of exactly everything that has been done in the last few years at university level by students. This recognizes a certain kind of support that has been delayed, which we certainly owe to those who in previous years, studying and defending their rights through the student parliament, deserve such a thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20361	If no one ever answers for a word again, I'm putting the amendment to article 64 on the vote. For 11, against 106, the abstentions, were not voted 18, a total of 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am setting a break until 15.00 hours and the afternoon section continues with the debate in particular, with the amendment to article 64, which was submitted by MP Radojko Petrovic. Another announcement: a session of the Legislative Committee will be held at 1400 hours in Hall I on the ground floor.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20362	Dear ladies and gentlemen, please insert the identification cards into your MPs to determine the quorum. I'm guessing we have a quorum. We continue the debate in detail and the decision on amendments to the draft law on the university. National MP Radojko Petrovic submitted to the 64th amendment. The Government and the Education Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Does any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 11, against 118, there are no abstentions, no vote of 10, a total of 139 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 65th amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Rosic. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. National MP Mirko Rosic withdraws the amendment. The 65th amendment was submitted by MP Nebojsa Jovic. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been issued by MP Bora Stanimirovic, an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20363	It's about the number of days, because it's a short time for a student to object. That's what we discussed on the board. It was supposed to be adopted. However, three days is not enough time to gather the council, and the advice is, as you know, next to the faculty teachers and representatives of the social community appointed by the government. So it's a short time, and that's why we suggest that the time of appeal be 10 days. I'd like the minister to accept this.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20364	Does anyone else sign up for this amendment? The word has a minister of education and sports, Mr. Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20365	They are noble intentions, but due to other deadlines, the amendment cannot be accepted; and in any case, the dates are known in advance and can be scheduled in advance, so that there are no three days, because they know the date when they are received and immediately afterwards.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20366	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 14, against 122 abstentions, there was no vote of 8, a total of 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 66th Amendment was submitted by MP Zeljo Huric. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The word has a People's MP, Zeljo Huric.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20367	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my amendment refers to the participation of students in the organization of university management, or colleges. In Article 66, I will read only the last position to which the corrections in my amendment apply, it says, "The dean is making a solution to the students' complaint within five days of the day of their entry." I suggest that this last position reads: "The dean brings a solution to the student's appeal with a consultation with the student-prodekan, and within five days of the day of admission of the complaint." At the Education Committee on this amendment, we discussed, the minister said that he accepted it essentially and that he would go out for a pay phone during the debate on this amendment and say that this is understood. I suggest to Mr. Minister that instead he definitely says that the Government accepts this amendment, a team before my consultations with most MPs really have support. On the other hand, if you listened carefully, a large number of debaters also spoke about the participation, or participation of students, and asked for the law to be corrected in this regard. Once again, I ask that this amendment be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20368	The word is made by Minister Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20369	I think that's what it means, as we talked to the Education Committee, because the student -- he's a prodigal part of the team, or the college administration, so it's normal to consult the dean with him.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20370	Does anyone else sign up for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 97, against 25, there are no abstentions, not 31, a total of 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 67th Amendment was submitted by MP Zeljo Huric. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The word has a People's MP, Zeljo Huric.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20371	Mr. Minister, this amendment is exactly the same, and I think we should accept it, not to discuss anything further, and this before it comes to complaints about abuse by employees, and that's what teachers are primarily meant by it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20372	Minister of Education, Mr. Gašo Knezevic, accepts this amendment, but since the Committee on Education and the Legislative Committee has not accepted the vote, I will put this amendment to the vote and ask the MPs to declare themselves. For 123, against 10, the abstentions were not voted 30, a total of 163 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment most of the votes. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 69 of the amendment. The Education Committee has adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Members of the 69th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Bora Stanimirovic and Zarko Obradovic. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The word has a National MP, Bora Stanimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20373	Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment has already been accepted and our intensities have been that the practical teaching of foreign language at the German universities can be performed by the doctors of science, i.e. to get titles like other university teachers. It's accepted, and we just wanted to sort of limit it, not to, which practically happens, that foreign language teaching will be performed by beginners, assistants, trainees, or lecturers, senior lecturers, professors, extraordinary professors, regular professors. In that sense, it was our intervention. However, we fully agree that this view of the government is accepted, but something must be changed. It must change this next position in article 69, and it has to be done technically, so it says, "The teachers of the university are called "docent, extraordinary professors, and regular professor." Item 2 would in this case be: "Teachers of foreign languages at German universities, who have called lecturers or senior lecturers, can teach foreign languages at a German university until a certain period," we suggested until September 30th. However, the addition is in Article 74. It says, "For a foreign language teacher." Since the legislator provided for only a lecturer, the Committee and the amendments once again proposed a "higher lecturer" so that it would eventually be adopted that the lecturer, senior lecturer, professor, extraordinary professor and regular professor could teach. Now the addition of Article 74(2) would be: "For a senior lecturer at a German university, a person who, in addition to the conditions laid down in Article 1, has the academic title of Master of Science. "
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20374	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 23, against 130, the abstentions were not voted 17, out of 170 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Velimir Simonovic submitted to the 69th amendment. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The word is by MP Velimir Simonovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20375	Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday in the principle debate, I made my point about teaching languages at German universities. So I'm not going to say it again, because now we're not ready for radical solutions. If I can just repeat that there's no point in giving up languages in German colleges that students have to learn earlier, and that's where they learn only the terminology that they can master on their own. But let's leave that radical solution now. I suggest calling foreign language teachers can be a lecturer and a senior lecturer. They're the usual language teachers' calls in German colleges. To use analogy: when a Slavic cathedral in Europe invites one of our experts to give a lecture from the Serbian language, he is there a lecturer for the Serbian language. It's not any humiliating calling, it's common and they're language lecturers in colleges that aren't parent. He could be a doctor, too. He'd be a senior lecturer. I suggest two calls: a lecturer and a senior lecturer. Senior lecturer for those who have scientific papers, perhaps doctorate, master's degree, etc. If this amendment fails, then I have no choice but to give up the amendment to Article 74, which is related to this. But I recommend that you accept this amendment, and that we resolve the issue of language in German colleges in a much more serious way.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20376	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 39, against 101, two abstentions, 27 of the 169 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to the 70th amendment. The committees responsible have adopted this amendment. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MP Bratoljub Janackovic submitted to the 72nd amendment. I find that MP Bratoljub Janackovic has withdrawn the amendment to Article 72. It's a bill of law. The People's MP Miroslav Christodulo submitted to Article 72 of the amendment. The committees responsible did not accept this amendment. The People's Messenger, Miroslav Christodulo, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20377	Article 72 speaks of what the conditions are that an associate may be chosen as a doctor. That's the first attitude. The second view is for an extraordinary professor, and the third view is for regular Professor My Amendment, who I submitted on behalf of the Social Democratic MPs in the Serbian Parliament, only asks to delete point 3) in point 2 which speaks of one condition for selecting an extraordinary professor. So, even though this is some kind of professor matter right now, and I'm mostly putting out amendments here and representing some student stuff, this is really a student thing. We believe that because of this provision, which requires a mandatory published textbook for an extraordinary professor, there are too many bad-quality textbooks in the university offer. So, we believe that the obligation to publish textbooks for candidates to call an extraordinary professor leads to co-workers and teachers writing textbooks by force and that there are a lot of bad textbooks in the university offer. So we suggest that the mandatory textbook is not required by candidates for calling an extraordinary professor, while for calling a regular professor it should remain as a condition.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20378	The word came from the minister of education and sports, Mr. Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20379	The terms of that member are alternatively set.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20380	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 19, against 129, a abstentioned one, did not vote 23, out of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 74 of the amendment. The committees responsible have adopted this amendment. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 74th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Sreten Mitrovica, Ljubomir Mucic and Dusan Cvetkovic. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Is anyone answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 22, against 133, the abstentioned were not voted 19, out of 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 74th Amendment were submitted by MP Velimir Simonovic. National MP Velimir Simonovic withdraws the amendment to Article 74. The Government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 75 of the amendment. The committees responsible have adopted this amendment. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MPs Dragoljub Vojnovic and Vladimir Dobrosavljevic together submitted to the 75th amendment. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Dragoljub Vojnovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20381	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, we have submitted an amendment to Article 75 for the following reasons. In fact, before the adoption of this law at least then in 1992, no assistant interns were foreseen. With the desire to keep an expert in college, it is determined that calling an assistant trainee can also be included in the law, with that person elected if there is a higher than eight rating in basic studies. However, the following point is: "For an assistant, a person whose academic title is Master of Science, i.e. the Master of Arts, can be chosen and it makes sense for teaching work." We suggest that this second attitude be changed and that "The assistant may be elected a person who, in addition to the conditions of Article 1, has the academic title of Master of Science, or Master of Arts and makes sense for teaching work". There is one big problem with teaching in medical schools, where assistants - trainees after completed studies are unable to perform exercises or one form of teaching for those clinical subjects they specialize in, so there is this third position. I'm not going to quote him, but we think it takes this second attitude to change because so far there have been a large number of cases in practice that the person, who during his education had no grades greater than eight, after half-yearly or annual specialization and the master's degree was later assistant and teacher, without being able to monitor his work from the very beginning, with one positive base that he is an excellent student. Therefore, I believe that this amendment should be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20382	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 53, against 95, a abstentioned one, was not voted 30, out of 179 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Bozidar Vucurovic submitted to the 79th amendment. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The applicant for the amendment is not present. The word has the deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group, MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20383	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is the third round of our objections to the draft law on the university and the shortcomings we are trying to remove by writing amendments that are in line with the SRS programme. We tried to fix the law in the area of university autonomy and college of special space, and you didn't accept that amendment. We tried to help the amendments to study as soon as possible because their child is dedicated to them at a time when he can learn best, and all after that is just stories for little children. You have not accepted our amendments. Now, we're coming to this, to the proper management of colleges, and that has nothing to do with the autonomy of scientific, creative work, with independence, with the right of the professor to write his own textbook, to decide how he's going to teach himself, to decide how he's going to question and what grade he's going to give to the student. It is about the choice and who makes the choice, and it has been agreed that on Article 79, as an assistant as an intern, we try to expose to you the whole concept that is fully in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Namely, Article 58(1). The constitution of the Republic of Serbia reads: "Stat and work are the basis for governance and participation in decision-making." You of many MPs during the debate have been warned in principle that this university law is not at all concerned with the rights of those who funded and founded universities and universities. And they have rights under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, if it is the founder of the university or the University of the Republic of Serbia, it has the right to manage a university or university, constitutional law that cannot just be taken away from it, by declaring that the university has autonomy and to be completely separate from the state, almost as a church. You say - employees at the university or at the university will decide on jobs, getting calls and no one will be able to interfere. You say -- the election council will decide; and then we ask you -- and what will the dean do to that college? What's up with your concept of college dean? We knew what it was: an in-house management body. The Company Act has been applied, and why not apply to college and university. The dean is the person representing the founder at the university and university. Who now represents the founder, or through whom does he who has invested his property manage his property? You didn't separate colleges here compared to who their founder is; now imagine, there are a lot of rich people, there are hundreds of colleges that could open and he opens college, hires 30 professors, 31st they hire; assistant interns hire. And in what way do you take away a man’s right to control his property? Why do you deny the right to rule over state property? Are the citizens satisfied with investing in a university, investing in the elections in government, and then the government says - well, what you invested in college, we won't be worried about; they'll take care of it at the university. Did you see that coming for any other area, any more for any company? Can these clinics, can medical centers, can anyone in the country get something to operate and manage it indefinitely? I repeat, do not associate it with scientific and professional work, lectures, studies; I bind it to organization, management and nothing has ever been left to deans or rectors without the government filter, which is responsible for everything she's been entrusted with, so it's also responsible for the state of the university and the university.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20384	I'm warning you, time's over.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20385	I'm done. I'm sorry. I've been listening to statements, some of you are giving statements to the press and saying, "Now it's all right, now all the Deans are good." How is it possible that all the Deans are good? Just because they support a political option that is currently in power. What happens to them when another political option comes? Is there going to be these 141th-grade members again, where they will not only stop being deans, but they will be run from college. (President: Seven minutes). Here, I'll have time.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20386	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? Minister of Education, Mr. Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20387	The predecessor said that for them the dean is an incoherent management body that has a bearing on the Company Act. That's not true. An innocuous management body is an intrinsic law on joint work. That's a pretty significant difference, because it's conceptual. The college's been entrusted to the dean, and that defines the law itself, so you know what he's doing. The person who makes the decision to elect an assistant - the intern is the most regular and can extend it for another year.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20388	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 25, against 124 abstentions, there was no vote 24 out of 173 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's Messengers of Arsen Kurayacki have submitted to the 80th Amendment, whether only the Messenger of Arsen Kurayacki. Then there's a text error. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20389	Mr. Minstar's out, otherwise I'd say hello. Dear Presidency, fellow MPs, I referred to the establishment of a working relationship between teachers and co-workers at the university. Article 23(1) The labour law, which we adopted, is precisely defined when working relationship is based on a certain time. It says: doing certain jobs for a period that has been continuous or with interruptions for the longest three years. The jobs of teachers and associates cannot be regarded as this type of work, and therefore the working relationship cannot be concluded for a certain period of time. Another possibility is that a working relationship can be established for a certain period of time in cases established by law. It's based on the Labour Act. So, the government, in its explanation of the rejection of this amendment, states exactly that this university law, as a back-up specialis, has arranged cases of starting a working relationship at the university. The very word "case" suggests it's something temporary, time-limited. Is it even possible to consider the tasks of an action at the top of the education pyramid a case? That's the whole point of the story. The jobs of teachers and co-workers at the university are jobs that are being carried out permanently and are presented as confidential public authority. Calling, as a special condition for the job of teachers and associates, is quite enough, and the lack of knowledge and ability or the lack of certain work results is the real reason for the termination of employment. So we have to distinguish jobs from jobs. Neither from the legal nor from the moral point of view can these people remain in a state of constant uncertainty. Especially, if we know correctly, that the choice in a particular calling depends more than solely on that candidate. We know, unfortunately, that for a choice in a particular calling, there are still many factors that do not depend solely on it. So, because of this provision we put these people, it may be rude to say, but in the position of the unspeakable listeners, which certainly does not contribute to the quality of neither work nor mutual relations at the university. The debate called for university autonomy and the right to have mutual relations regulated within the university. That's, of course, partly true. I say in part, because we cannot, in the context of autonomy, violate some basic principles of the Constitution and equality of all people before the law, or the provisions of some general laws. Also, there have been calls to tradition, which cannot be fully accepted. Because I'm going to remind you, at the University of Novosad by 1992, there was a completely different solution, which I advocated, and it worked quite well. I will remind you that these discussions have already been before, and in 1996 in "Law Life", in issue 12, and can be checked, this problem has been elaborated very nicely. Unfortunately, there was no hearing before. So, the amendment proposes that both teachers and university associates have the right, as well as all other employees, in case they are not elected, to be deployed to another job that corresponds to their abilities; and only if there is no other job, that they stop working in that case. So, when people are admitted, it doesn't depend on whether they're elected or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20390	Thank you. Is anyone else applying for this amendment? I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 45, against 97, with four abstentions, it did not vote 28, out of 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 82nd amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The applicant for the amendment is not present. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 19, against 122, a abstentioned one, was not voted 34, out of 176 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 86 of the amendment. The committees in charge have accepted this amendment, so I find that it has become an integral part of the bill. The amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Janjic to Article 86. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The word has the People's MP Slobodan Janjic, who submits the amendment to Article 86. It's a bill of law on the university. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20391	What we've been listening to about the bill, I don't know if it'll be clear to anyone when we're done with what we've been doing here. With my amendment, I asked the dean to regulate the status issue of the teaching staff, not some election council you're proposing. This election council consists exclusively of members of DOS and will be a fact-finding single-party system in colleges. They also object to some kind of advice, instead of the Minister of Education. So in Section 1, I asked for the "election council" to be deleted and the word "dean college" to be inserted; to delete attitudes 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6, in the whole, in the 7th position, I asked that instead of "election council" stand "dean college" and that the objections be sent to the minister of education. I don't know if the Minister of Education can understand what I'm talking about. We've been listening to all sorts of things around here. The president of the DOS parliamentary group told us here that some kind of iron broom would work in colleges. He does not know that the broom consists of two parts, since it has no work experience and does not know what the broom is for. If he doesn't know which fly will be more painful, he should ask Mr. Zarko Korač.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20392	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? There is a word from MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20393	Here, I have been warned by the minister that I am speaking to the dictionary of the Law on Joint Work, and we are now entering an entire area of the University Law proposal, which is completely self-adjusted, just as it suits those who still regret self-government and the Law on Associated Work. Here's the question -- how will teachers choose a new teacher, and why would it be something that our university law might be proud of? In fact, it would be very interesting to analyse the financing of a university, with which the Government of the Republic of Serbia participate, with which percentage of students who finance their education? Why don't students who pay tuition ask who's gonna be a teacher? Why don't they decide how to choose a teacher? Why did you provide only one member with some kind of student parliament? Perhaps the statutes of the university predict that only regular students have the opportunity to choose and be elected to the student parliament. What about students who pay for school? It's their right to manage college because they pay, much more right than those who don't pay. Because a college without those who pay the same could not exist. Or someone would try to convince me, if we only had regular students who support the state, so that college could survive for a long time - it wouldn't. Without extracurricular students, those who now pay four or five thousand marks a year, hardly survive our higher education. So why is it that only associates, from the level chosen and up, choose someone who has to start working at the university and on what basis they choose from different categories, different profiles of expertise in colleges? You can't say that all the lawyers at law school, there are other cases; even all the lawyers when they start dealing with specific areas, of course they're no longer relevant enough to decide on a department in which, for example, they are. They've never worked. It will turn out that they are now professional enough or you need a mass in which the vote may be public; so many resort to this public vote, and then threaten different sanctions, so everyone will vote publicly as the dean or representatives of the governing body elected by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Don't fool us here, the Serbian government will rule the university when we get to the university's advice and the college councils will be seen at what percentage. When you know that these deans are now elected, you will see what percentages are managed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. He's just hiding behind some cover, behind some mask, and I prefer an open and fair fight. You want college, the government will start it, the government will run it. I guess that's the honestest relationship. If you started college on your own, we wouldn't, of course, interfere with your management, but we won't even let that college take over for you. It would look like if one of these privates would be there (I won't name it), who has his own factory, who employed at that factory a certain number of workers, and then said -- here you go, now decide how you're going to go on, which will be the production program, decide who you're going to hire, who you're going to fire. Would any of you, who does private business, who cares about your capital, dare do such a thing? Now, when it comes to people's property, I'd say by some and the farts, then it can be managed any way it wants.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20394	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 32, against 113, a abstentioned one, was not voted 27, out of a total of 173 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Predrag Canovic to article 86. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There's a word from MP Predrag Canovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20395	Dear People's MPs, Section 3 in Article 86. The bill reads: "The higher ones are teachers of the university. The statutes of the university can determine that when the election council decides on the choice in co-operation, co-workers of the university also enter its composition. "We wish our amendment to re-form this position in a way that reads: "The elected council is composed of teachers of the university, and when the election council decides on the choice in the co-operational titles, so are the co-workers of the university. "So, we want to introduce the law that, when the election council decides on a choice in co-operation, it must be joined by university associates besides teachers. We consider this to be the most democratic, fairest, and thus, in some ways, the discrepancies with the attitude of the 5th member, who prescribes a way of choosing co-workers. If the proposed amendment is not adopted, more effective work will open up the possibility of misuse of the dean's authority. Therefore, the essence of the amendment, once again - when the electoral council decides on the choice in co-operation, we believe that, in addition to the teachers, the electoral council has to find its co-workers; this is something more democratic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20396	Thank you. Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 21, against 103, a abstentioned one, did not vote 50, out of 175 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 86, the amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Christodulo. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There's a word from the People's Messenger Miroslav Christodulo.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20397	Thank you. You're very kind. The 86th article discusses selecting candidates to call teachers and associates. So, it's good, there's nothing wrong, I'm just suggesting on behalf of 13 MPs from the two Social Democratic parties that in the pre-lated position of 9. Instead of "students can give an opinion when choosing teachers and co-workers should stand -- "the opinion of students is taken into account. "So it is one shade, but the nuance consists in the process of selecting teachers and associates, when someone can give an opinion, he can use his right whenever he wants. And whoever will, in fact, can. Since everything is free in the Republic of Serbia which is not explicitly prohibited, I can, for example, go to any university and give an opinion on anyone. And of course no one will respect that opinion. The possibility of students giving their opinion on the teaching work of teachers and associates in the process of their choice is not enough. We therefore propose that this possibility of giving an opinion be raised to a level of obligation, which is also a practice at universities across Europe and the world. Of course, the opinion of students on the teaching work of teachers and associates can still be taken into account, but it does not have to be taken into account when they are elected. And one more thing to say, it's not about the student parliament, it's about students who are related to this associate or professor through exercises and lectures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20398	Thank you. Does anyone else sign up for a word? Here you go, Minister of Education, Mr. Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20399	We've discussed on the Education Committee - giving students an opinion on the quality of teachers is something we want. So the evaluation of the professor's work is a desirable category and I can give it, to a sufficient degree or best, students. However, the entire electoral process here can be stopped because some students deny their opinion. So it's neither positive nor negative, it doesn't exist, it's still a process stopped because it's too high a degree of obligation in the formulation. That's all the reason.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20400	Thank you. National MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group, spoke. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20401	With all these basses about how students are going to grade teachers, I have to ask the legislator and the amendment holder -- how did they imagine that students, according to the legislator, would be able to give an opinion, and according to the amendment's applicant, that students should be required to take the opinion of students. What does that mean, students? Reading the provisions of only one or two members concerning the student parliament, "Legal and Protection of Students", as you have called this whole chapter, I have found no provision saying that the student committee, which monitors the quality of teaching or which declares about the professor, will give an opinion on the choice set out in Article 86. The bill, and then I would understand the way you think that students can give an opinion on the pedagogical work of the elected person. And it's written like this -- students, it's already two students, three, four, five, come alone and give an opinion, invite them electorally bigger. By what principle? Perhaps the best student, perhaps the most valuable, perhaps the most beautiful student, perhaps the highest student, and says, "Give your opinion, we can't go on without your opinion." Well, every provision of this law must be clear. The law must be understandable to everyone. Under this law, the wisest people in the country will act. I'm counting on those who teach children to be the wisest people. So, how are they going to interpret this? On the side of the fact that it does seem a little pessimistic that students will grade teachers and it will never be possible to achieve it. But I'm really interested in what this procedure will look like. Who's going to file the teacher's pedagogical paper? How many signatures will be required to take the election council to consider students' opinions? Or imagine another situation, one group of seven students writes that he is an extraordinary educator, and the other group of seven students writes that he must not be in college. What are you going to consider and appreciate?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20402	Does anyone else sign up for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 15, against 105, the two abstentions, did not vote 49, out of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 86th Amendment was submitted by MP Rajko Baralic. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Please, the word has the mandated representative of the SPS parliamentary group, MP Bora Stanimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20403	Ladies and gentlemen, since Mr. Rajko Baralic is not present, allow me to point out a technical error made in Article 86, which refers practically to the choice of teachers in certain titles. It's exactly how it's done here and who's making the choice of teachers. However, as we have now practically made it possible for foreign languages in German universities to be taught by lecturers, senior lecturers, professors, regular and extraordinary professors, it is understood that these universities do not have parenthood for a particular subject. As a result, the government proposed that the selection of teachers and co-workers at the German university should be preceded by the opinion of the Faculty of origin, but should read so - when selecting teachers and foreign language associates in the German university, the opinion of the Faculty of Commerce is previously obtained. I think it's a technical mistake and nothing else. The government will probably make it right, there's no reason for us to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20404	Thank you. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 28, two abstentions against 103, 34 of the 167 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 86. The amendment was submitted by MP Dragisa Marinkovic. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Please, the word has been made by MP Dragisa Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20405	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have proposed a very concrete solution to what Mr. Christodoulo did not specify. So, when selecting teachers and co-workers, the student parliament, through its representatives, gives an assessment of the proposed candidate. The score's-- it's satisfying, or--it's not satisfying. If the assessment does not satisfy it, the election council has an obligation to propose a new candidate. Be kind and accept this amendment, because we're going to do a lot to the students. Those college professors, not paying attention to what the students think, means those who are really, honestly speaking, evil for that college will be removed from college this way. Once again, I ask you to accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20406	Thank you. National MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group, spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20407	Well, we've been listening to the story for months, and in the light of this bill, we've learned from the promoters, that even the deans are not competent to give an opinion on a teacher who should be elected, and now we're getting an amendment that the student parliament, through its representative, gives an assessment of the teacher who is elected. Well, he says -- it pleases, or -- it doesn't satisfy, and if it doesn't, it repeats the election process. It's no good. Even if you would accept this amendment, where will the student parliament be represented? The election council isn't scheduled. Whether he will be invited as a guest to the session or parliament will make a statement in writing, so the session will not even be held if parliament declares that the teacher, who is to be elected, is not satisfied. I think this has been an attempt to specify what only one member is not specific, but there is nothing concrete about this law. Many declarative provisions - carried out in recent years about how the university, or university, will flourish and be autonomous, will no longer be under any tutorship - fall into the water of this proposal for a law on university. I do not know what time-limit this law respects, promised or ordered, but should not have come out with this bill before the National Assembly and the People's MPs, because more than 80% of the provisions have been prescribed from the 1992 Law. Neither was the law, it may not have been good for 1998, but you can't build a good law by compiling 1992 and 1998, without any new provision. There's got to be a new law on university. Not a representative of the ruling majority, defending one member, to say -- it said so in 1998; defending another to say -- it said so in 1992; refusing attacks that the solution was not good to say -- you had a solution like this. We need a good law, which will no longer depend on whether the political will of citizens is changed, whether another political option will win or not, whether it all goes away from the university and the university, does not affect how classes will take place, professional work and whether the children of colleges will end or not. This leverage of students, without specific provisions, without clearly written as long as it goes to college or university students, doesn't mean anything and it's much fairer to tell those kids - you won't be managing this and we guarantee it; but say - you manage this and when you get concrete you stand before the first obstacle, in front of the first door, there won't be a key that that door will be able to open.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20408	Does anyone else sign up for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 23, against 99, the abstentioned were not voted 42, a total of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 87th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jakov Stamenkovic, Dragisa Popovic and Anita Beretic. The government and the Education Committee have adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee believes that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Member of the 87th amendment was submitted by MP Predrag Canovic. The government and the committees have accepted this amendment, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic submitted the amendment to article 87. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The word is made by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20409	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS parliamentary group has tabled an amendment to Article 87. A bill of law on the university, and I need to read you this article in order to understand the essence of our proposal to amend that member. Item 1: "The Dean delivers an act on the choice of teachers, i.e. a co-worker to the university for consent." It was said earlier that some people spoke the language of the Law of Associated Work. Listen to the second sentence, which is like it's from that time. Item 2: "A person elected by the decision of the electoral council to call teachers, i.e. an associate, may object to an act of the university which has not been given consent to the decision of the electoral higher university authorised by the authority of the university within 15 days of the day of knowledge." Item 3: "The objection of Item 2 is submitted through the electoral council". Item 4: "If the authority of the university does not give consent to the decision-making act, that is, the co-worker dean announces a new competition". Item 5: "According to the agreement of the dean with the elected person, the contract of work is concluded." The SRS parliamentary group, in order to improve the legal text, proposes to amend the first and fourth positions, and to delete Articles 2 and 3, then, if you adopt this amendment, Article 87 would look like this: "The Dean delivers an act on the choice of teachers or associates of the Minister of Education and Sports to consent. If the minister of education and sports does not give consent to the choice of teachers, or associates, the dean announces a new competition." The third position: "According to the agreement of the dean with the elected person, the contract of work is concluded." The SRS parliamentary group rightly believes that the dean should regulate all status issues of the teaching staff and that consent is required from the founders' representatives or the minister of education and sport. What bothers me more, Minister, than the refusal of amendments, is that the Government is in an explanation that rejects the amendment and in the material that has been delivered to us, concluded that the reasoning applies as in the amendment to Article 86. The bill, submitted by MP Slobodan Janjic. I think every amendment and every MP deserves the government to give its opinion in particular. It's a few sentences, not expensive, and the MP is a representative of the people and one who needs to control the work of the government and the ministries. What bothers the government in this bill, especially in Articles 86, 87 and earlier, is that it declares itself to be capable managers, for those people who, with a lot of responsibility and independence, will make decisions and thus increase the efficiency of work in the economy, education and everywhere, and in this law we are now introducing self-government, we are going back to what we used to be, (I was that President of the Workers' Council) that we all collectively decide that no one is responding to anyone, and that someone is making a whole job out of it. Ladies and gentlemen, I urge you to accept this amendment to the article 87, which was submitted by the Serbian Radical Party, which I have explained.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20410	The word has the Minister of Education, Mr. Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20411	The previous speaker is quite right, every MP deserves attention and I apologize, but it is a common legal procedure, a bit once dry and a little ugly, but it reduces time and technical language leads to expression. With this opportunity and this announcement, I hope to cancel the lack of attention the government has shown you. This is indeed the third round of objections, i.e. the amendment of one political option. All three circles are directed towards the same and that's back in 1998. These are conceptal other laws, and I think you should always keep that in mind.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20412	The word has been made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20413	All you had to do was finish the thought. It's true that we're in favor of the 1998 law, but you're in favour of the 1992 law, and then everything is in place, then you understand why we've been and how we've written the amendments, and I don't think we've made a mistake in writing the amendments anywhere. Now the question arises, when the dean delivers an election act to call teachers, or co-workers to the university for consent, what does that mean. In the position of the fourth member, mention is given to an authorised body of the university. I may not have been careful enough when I read the bill of law on the university, but I did not find what it means to send the university to agree on the choice of teachers to call. Reading the provisions of Article 104, which regulate the work of the University Council and the Member of 106, which regulate the work of the Greater University, by reading the provisions of Article 101 that speak of the university's Rector, I did not find their right and the obligation to make known to the dean's notification that someone had been elected to call. That's why I'm interested now, since you've had a lot of time to write this bill, to whom the dean sends a notice, who's authorized to cancel the election? What kind of autonomy is college when someone at the university, and we don't know who, doesn't write in law, and that means anyone, can undo the choices that all teachers in one college have made. The dean, under Article 87, is then obliged to announce a new competition. I think the promoter owes us an explanation, at least because of these people working in college.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20414	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Minister of Education.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20415	The body of the university council.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20416	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 21, against 112 abstentions, he did not vote 41, out of 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 88th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jakov Stamenkovic, Dragisa Popovic and Anita Beretic. The government and the Education Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MP Predrag Canovic submitted to the 88th amendment. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a National MP, Predrag Canovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20417	Article 88. The bill gives authority to the dean that, in the event that an appropriate candidate is not registered in a competition for the choice of teachers or associates, he may conclude a teaching contract with a teacher or associate from another university for one school year. The Soviet Parliament Group believes that the words "predicted by this law" should be added in this article after the term "condition". So we wanted to make this amendment clear that the conditions of the competition must apply strictly to this law. In addition, we oblige the deans to comply with this law because there have been cases where the choice of teachers and co-workers of the dean, and with the aim of eliminating the unwanted candidate, does not adhere to the conditions of the competition, but that some additional conditions are sought which are not defined by the statute or the University Law. So, the point of the amendment is to eliminate the possibility of abuse in the choice of teachers.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20418	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? Nobody. I put the amendments to the vote. For 24, against 108, there are no abstentions, no vote of 40, of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 89 of the amendment. The Committee on Education has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MPs Nenad Lemajic, Milan Radulovic, Bojana Aleksic, Dragoljub Vojnović and Vladimir Andric together submitted the amendment. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20419	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we've waited a long time for this law, and the concentration is dropping. Looks like we're not very interested in this. When I had the debate in principle, I talked about some important things, and I hoped I wouldn't speak in particular. However, some amendments, which I submitted with my DSS colleagues, we believe should be accepted. That's what we propose to the amendments to delete article 89. I'll quote it, and then I'll explain why it needs to be deleted. "The person elected to call the university teachers can be taken over in a working relationship at the second university in the same title in accordance with the law governing working relations." This is in collegiate with Article 81, where the dean is said to be making a decision on the competition, so teachers can be chosen by the competition. Secondly, in a recent discussion, there was a dilemma about whether students have rights and how they will express the right to determine the similarity of teachers for lecturers; in this case, it is not possible to show this right, since the teacher practically translates from another university. In my long work, I've had such cases that, say, a teacher from one university, and a similar education as mine, I've moved someone else's will to another college. I don't think success in class was good. Therefore, we suggest that this member be deleted. I'd like the minister to accept that amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20420	Anybody else answer for a word? The president of the DOS-DSS parliamentary group, MP Dejan Mihajlov.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20421	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, it is very important to accept this amendment and elect this member because it opens up the possibility of small-door employment, i.e. to take over some college professors who could not be under regular circumstances. This is a way to avoid established procedures so that fellow professors, students and all others can acquire the calling of professors at a particular university, and it would happen that someone at a university who, for example, is not a parent for a particular field becomes a professor at a parent university, although there is neither enough experience, nor that qualification, nor meets the conditions needed to be a professor at that university. He could not have been if the competition had been called and the commission had, as provided for by this law, done its job. So we think that this can have an impact on the quality of teaching and that, if we look at the worse side of every solution, this can be misused, so that some professors are employed in some universities even though they don't have enough qualifications. For example, a professor who teaches some of the classes in medicine at another university that is not parent to the subject comes to medicine, and is not trained enough to work and drop the quality of teaching, as Professor Vojnović said, and this has been recorded so far. We don't think this would significantly violate the concept of the law, and it would reduce the possibility of abuse to a lesser extent. That's why we think it would be good to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20422	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 36, against 87, two abstentions, 49 of the 172 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 89th Amendment was submitted by MP Predrag Canovic. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The applicant for the amendment, Mr. Canovic, wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20423	Once again, I will repeat a member of 89 who just quoted Professor Vojnovic as saying, "The person elected to call the university's teacher may be taken over in a working relationship at the second university in the same title in accordance with the law governing working relationship." Our parliamentary group suggests that the words "in line with the law governing working relations" be replaced by the words "based on agreements that conclude colleges". There is a difference in understanding of this amendment between our parliamentary group and the DSS parliamentary group. Namely, the solution proposed in Article 89 does not comply with the rules on working relations, and we believe that such a new formulation of this article could find a more appropriate solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20424	I thank Mr. Canovic. Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. ) In that case, I put the amendments of MP Canovic to the vote. For 11, against 109, four abstentions, 45 did not vote, out of 169 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Predrag Canovic tabled an amendment proposing that the subtitle "6 be added after article 89". The rights and obligations of the working relationship." The government and the Education Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 91st Amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Christodulo. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20425	Article 91 refers to labour relations rights and obligations. So, even though the law was created by the 1992 Law and then a little bit repaired, there are some significant changes and it brings back some autonomy to the university, but we don't know where this member is from now on lagging behind, as if he's been prescribed from the infamous 1998 Law. On that day, on May 24, 1998, the police beat us here while you passed that law, you know that? So I don't understand why the police are now beating up the police tragically injured former interior minister we have to have. It is said here that individual rights, obligations and responsibilities of teachers, associates and other employees at the university, or university, are decided, and that is the key, rector, or dean. We find this entire member unacceptable. Individual rights, obligations and responsibilities of faculty or university employees should be prescribed by a general or individual act, because it is in the spirit of the academic community that a collective in a more tolerated atmosphere decides on such important issues. On the contrary, this article is as if it was prescribed, as I said, by the Law of 1998, which has done so much harm to Serbia's development, precisely because it has put the deans and rectors at the level of the director of state enterprises, in which there is no need for the spirit of community and tolerance to develop a scientific way of thinking. We believe that this whole member should be deleted and that everything from the field of working relations for teachers, co-workers and other employees is arranged by applying the Labour Act, not these special provisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20426	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. In that case, I put an amanadian to the vote. For 41, against 84, abstentions, did not vote 45, out of 173 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Bozidar Vujic submitted to the 91st amendment. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The applicant for the amendment is not in the O.R. The word is sought by MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20427	If it's a thank you, it was the police, too, but it didn't interfere with my development. I've grown quite a bit. Article 91 reflects the dilemmas of the university's draft law and reflects its inability to resolve these dilemmas in the best possible way. Article 91 has two positions. With the first attitude we fully agree, is it in the spirit of the Labour Act, in the spirit of relations in the state, in spirit and with the SRS programme, but what about attitude 2? Does the promote really want a job council at university and university or not? If you say in Section 1 that individual rights, obligations and responsibilities of teachers, co-workers and other employees at the university are decided by the vice president, or dean, how come these same employees are now deciding on the rector, or the dean? The 2nd point is said - on individual rights, obligations and responsibilities of the university's rector, or dean of the university, the university's council decides. When you look at the composition of the university council, or college, most of them are employed at the university, or at the university, then those representatives you said you would avoid, representatives of the founders of the university or the university; and that they were bound by impressions, a dozen members referred to in point 1) and 2) determine the student parliament. What is this? Self-government, working advice, why don't you apply the Labour Act to deans and rectors? How is it that all professors are subject to the Labour Act, their rights are decided, I will repeat the word - an in-coherent management body, director, dean, rector, and, when it comes to the rights of that rector or dean, they are now asked the employee through their working council. Something's wrong with that. I don't see the concept, I don't see the concept of the law, it needs to be done to the end, or it will be self-government. Are you usually under the autonomy of the university and university you mean self-government, full self-government at the university, or university. For you it is autonomy or there will be some order that is prescribed for all citizens of Serbia, as well as for university employees, or at the university. That order is the Labour Act. We adopted it only a few months ago, and none of you said then there would be exceptions to the Labour Act, that there would be board directors everywhere, and only at the university working council. Well, why don't you decide the working council again in the foundries? Why don't you go to the car factory, why just college or university? Are you now declaring that the only class-aware people at university and university; everyone else is unconscious, and they should not be entrusted with the management of the companies they work in, but only those who are employed at the university and at the university. It won't be like that. We're gonna go back to self-government or we're gonna, and I don't want to, of course, establish new relationships in this society. At least those relations are clear with you - who pays, who plays the music and who sings the song.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20428	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) In that case, I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 31, against 94, a abstentioned one, did not extinguish 43, a total of 169 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Predrag Memberovic has tabled an amendment proposing that a subtitle be deleted after article 91. The government and the Education Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I find that this is how the amendment became an integral part of the bill. The amendment was submitted by MP Predrag Canovic to Article 92. The Government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. You don't want a word? The amendmentr doesn't want a word. Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? Nobody. I put the amendments to the vote. For 22, against 108, the abstentions were not voted 36, out of 166 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 95th Amendment was submitted by MP Velimir Simonovic. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Simonovic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20429	Ladies and gentlemen, here's the thing. Paragraph 2 of Article 95 states: "The mentorship can only be performed by a teacher who is in working relation to that university with full or incomplete working hours." I wrote the amendment: "The mentorship can be carried out by a teacher who is in a working relationship to the university with full or incomplete working hours and an extremely retired professor of the university." The Education Committee explained that mentoring is something about working relationships. I don't think mentorship is about working relationships. It is a completely different kind of work that a retired professor can do; of course it will be very rare, because many teachers were not mentors and when they were in a permanent working relationship. Some time, that would be very useful. Let me give you a specific example. For example, someone's been assigned a mentor, working for a year or two, and then retired. Since he can't continue to be a mentor, then a new mentor must be appointed to such a candidate. Unfortunately, only today did I notice one contradiction with Article 94, because article 94 states: "A university major proposal, the researcher in scientific calling can: participate in a lecture at the Master's and Doctoral Studies, be a mentor." It says here that a mentor can only be a teacher who is in a working relationship; constantly and in a supplemental manner. How suddenly someone with a scientific calling can be in an institute and be a mentor. I didn't notice that until today, unfortunately. I don't think this amendment of mine is of any importance, but it's gonna be really useful for some time for a retired university professor to be a mentor. It'll be very rare, but it's not bad to stand as a possibility.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20430	I thank Professor Simonovic. Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? Yeah. ) The speech is attended by MP Bora Stanimirovic, representative of the SPS parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20431	Professor Simonovic is right here. There are more reasons here to vote for this amendment, and just from the fact that our university professors are going to retire very young, at 65 years of age, possibly 67 years old. You know there are no restrictions in the world, that they work as much as the employer allows them. That's number one. Number two, it's certain that more time will have precisely the professors who have great experience, who can pass on more to students, have more time, and this is about people who can really do it. So the employer doesn't have to take it because it's not a working relationship. If it was a working relationship, you'd have to. This isn't about a working relationship, it's about a man who's engaged to be a mentor. If he can hold a master's degree, interrogate, work, so he can't be a mentor on the master's and doctor's thesis. So it's a matter of understanding. This is about vanity on the one hand, and on the other hand about trying, and it's not bad, that young people come to the function of mentors, but this function of mentors is taken into choice for more calling, for an extraordinary or regular professor; that's the main problem. Everything else goes in favour of what Professor Simonovic has suggested, and that is why I suggest that this amendment be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20432	Thank you, Mr. Stanimirovic. Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? Yeah. ) The word has a minister of education and sport, Mr. Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20433	The aim of this article, i.e. the rejection of the proposal for this amendment, is to give the opportunity and opportunity to the younger. The only thing that gets the problem is if the professor doesn't have someone he's made, but it's very strange that a man should retire without having an heir; it's a question of the quality of such a lecturer, such a professor. So, we stay, the government stays with this.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20434	Thank you. The word is sought by MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20435	This is where the legislator confuses us in a few ways. First, Article 95(2), which is now being broken by a spear, leaves a dilemma that a teacher can mentor; whether it is a teacher who is in a permanent working relationship or a teacher who is not in a permanent working relationship; whether it can be both a doctor and an extraordinary teacher, or if mentorship is intended only for regular professors. The more the MPs hurt, the more they explain the government's representatives, which even one way sounds when they write, and something else is said about the pay phone. With regard to amendments to the last few members, I don't know why and what it means to her, but the government has always given us an explanation in terms of -- this member cannot be changed because the university's position in Serbia is that this member looks just like this. Through the bill of law, we are constantly getting the government's opinion that nothing in this can change because the university's view in Serbia is that this is what the bill should look like. What does the university's position in Serbia mean? The Central Committee's position? Is that the Secretary of the Central Committee? Where are the universities and what forums, where individual professors, who must have declared themselves, said: "Don't change this bill, either it will be like this or it won't be like this." Then the speaker minister comes out and says, well, he can't change this, the professor who didn't make it, even says he'd "make" it -- I'd use a little more polite terminology for this speaker -- the heir. I don't think it's appropriate for the minister to speak up like that. If the professor didn't leave the heir's department, if he couldn't be a mentor, but exactly -- if the professor couldn't make anyone; what does it matter now? There are those who make hours of work, and they're not professors, and they don't say much about it. So, if the promoter appreciates the applicant of the amendment, he will give that explanation behind whom he will stand for both this speaker and the public, and in discussions on the media, when it comes to the law, and not give us an uninterrupted official at the ministry to sign an explanation and to call in that explanation for the university's position in Serbia, as if we are little children, as if we do not know that no one has ever asked anyone. And what does that mean? He may be a rector of the university, but that's not the university's position for us. This is not at least like this National Assembly, and what is not like the National Assembly, you do not allow the people's messengers to work, and you forbid the minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20436	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I put Mr Simonovic's amendments to the vote. For 65, against 70, a abstentioned one, was not voted 28 out of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Velimir Simonovic to Article 98. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He has the word MP Velimir Simonovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20437	Ladies and gentlemen, as far as this amendment is concerned, I had a very interesting situation -- this amendment, exactly the same as it was, rejected by the Socialist government in 1992 and is now being rejected by my government. And here's the thing - it's about Article 98: "The teacher stops working at the end of the school year in which he turned 65 years old. "And now listen carefully further: "The working relationship of a teacher who turned 65 can be greatly extended based on a reasoned proposal of a higher college, and most of all by the end of the school year in which he was 67 years old. "I propose to erase that second view, because it will be more damage than good. So here's what this is about, since it's been before, first it's been a bigger one, etc., and since 1998, the dean has decided, and we've had these extremes: in some colleges, they've made a decision -- there's no extensions, and in some colleges, we extend everyone. I think it was also in law school, so everyone was automatically extended until 67, and in some colleges, the dean extended some, and some didn't, so it caused misunderstandings, arguments, and even trials were in some colleges. We will, ladies and gentlemen, automatically extend the university professor's internship in two years. I don't mind, but let it be written in the law, not that it depends on someone's goodwill. What major colleges are going to extend to someone and not extend to someone? This way we automatically extend the professor's internship for another two years. If that's what you want, so be it. I'm sorry, the professor who retired at 65 has the right to lecture in the third degree of study (if he has needs, of course), to participate in committees to elect teachers and co-workers, to participate in committees. (Louds from the O.R.: What about mentoring? ) So he can be on defense committees for master and doctoral dissertation. He's the only one who can't teach regular students. Well, should he also teach regular students a man over 65?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20438	Thank you, Professor Simonovic. Is anyone else looking for a word? There is a word from MP Dejan Mihajlov, president of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20439	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, this amendment should be supported in any case, as it opens up the possibility for some (and here again opens this famous criterion of political similarity) to a larger college, and in some cases it does not extend; it is also about some other sympathys. Either it stands to reason that anyone who wishes can extend until 67, with his consent, or there will be no volunteering on the side of a higher college, that it extends to someone and does not extend. That's what we've had so far. It's simply, in our opinion, some injustice that can be introduced. Of course, there may be a need in some case that a major university can, or does not have to, judge whether to leave someone behind, but if left behind, it can open up a great opportunity for abuses; or it will stand to anyone who wants to be able to extend to 67 or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20440	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20441	I think Minister Knezevic, explaining the refusal of the previous amendment, actually explained why this amendment should be accepted. The fact presented by the minister of education, that the professor who failed to provide himself with a replacement on the subject he taught should consider what he was doing until 65 years of age, is sufficient to indicate that, at 65 years of age, the working relationship should stop all professors, not because, although it is left at will and that it will paint even the politicality of certain people. It has to be regulated for everything equally. There is no argument from the Government that it is now the identification of an employer (university and college), so that through this attitude it reflects that the employer himself will decide autonomously in every particular case to which he will extend and whom he will not. No other employer in Serbia has that right, so he cannot have a dean, or rector, since this is exclusively about them, they decide on individual rights of employees at university and university. You leave them, in practice, at the will of the dean or the rector, to do what they will, so do not ask yourselves in a year, so how did this happen to us again? I didn't know many of you very well until you came to a piece of power, and then, for God's sake, I met you, and it was good.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20442	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 89, against 54, the abstention of three, was not voted 17, out of a total of 163 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Rosic to Article 98. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. National MP Mirko Rosic withdraws the amendment to Article 98. National MP Ljubomir Kragovic submitted to the 100th amendment. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. The MP is not present. Does anyone else want a word? He doesn't want to. I put the amendments to the vote. For 37, against 99, the abstentions were not voted 28 out of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 101. The amendment was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The Committee on Education has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. To Article 101. The amendment with correction was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here's a word from MP Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20443	Ladies and gentlemen, when this bill is carefully read, there is an impression that two things are coming to the front of the bill: it is the first -- self-government, which is too much in this bill, and the second is -- the fact that the proposer is advocating too much to the students. I can't help but mention the decision forming the student parliament. It is simply incomprehensible that the law imposes obligations on students to form a student parliament. Why is this not left to the good will of students, so that if they have a need and a desire, they do so and thus participate in decision-making at university and colleges, and not to be governed and ordered by law, imposes on students the obligation to establish a student parliament. As far as university and university management is concerned, I must point out that there are, according to this bill, governing bodies - the rector and advice of the university. The Rector, according to this proposal, chooses and resolves the council. Therefore, the actual governing body is the advice of the university. On the other hand, according to this bill, the founder of the university doesn't have a quarter of the council members. This means that the founder cannot directly influence the decisions and policies of the university, but it is again a self-government act, or self-government, where university employees run the policy of the university. This could lead to a situation where university policies are removed from policies that should be run by the state, or the founding member of the university. It's very unclear here what the situation is and whether all of this applies to a university whose founder is a legal, or physical person. How at these universities, where the founder is a legal or physical person, someone else will run politics and run the university, not the founder. Whether or not this applies to these universities, and this proposal follows that this also applies to private, or universities whose founders are legal and natural persons. The amendment I have made concerns the management of the university, and according to my proposal, the second position should be added after the first article's position in 101. The second view reads: "Rjector has the rights and responsibilities of the director of the company, if this law is not different." Just for the public's sake, the first point of view is, "Rjector is in charge of the university's work." What matters here is that under this law, under Article 2, the university is a legal person and as a legal person, so it can have an organ of governance that will represent it in the whole of life. It's a rector here, but here the rector isn't defined as an organ that will, otherwise, in other legal faces, accomplish that role. What's also important is that according to this proposal, the rector is no closer to being defined, or not defined closer to his duty. Everything is defined, and the advice and scientific -- teachingly larger, but the duties of the rectors are not precisely defined by this proposal, so that simply in this proposal, except for this first position of Article 101, where the "rector conducts the work of the university", the rector no longer mentions anything, or mentions his duties. What are the duties and obligations of the rectors, are not mentioned, and precisely defined duties and councils and scientific councils. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20444	Thank you. Does anyone else want a word? Here you go. The word has Tomislav Nikolic, a national MP, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20445	I don't know why the proposer avoided defining the position of the rector, and we'll explain it later in the dean's position, if he's put him in charge of one legal person. Article 2(2) The university bill defines the university as a legal person. The legislator of the law points to Article 101 of Position 1 as defined as regards the Rector of the University, and the position 1 reads: "Rjector manages the work of the University". Well, what's a rector? Is there a rector's labour law like the one who runs it? The legislator forgets that Article 91 of position 1 provides that the Rector decides on individual rights, obligations and responsibilities of teachers, co-workers and other university employees. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed a Labour Act, adopted in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The government of the Republic of Serbia has defined a person who decides on the rights of other employees, a person who manages the company, as director of the company, and has not found another term for that person and does not need it. We didn't even say that he was exclusively a director; we said - unless this law was defined differently. You can't call the rector director, but you have to define his rights and obligations to apply the Law of Labour at the university. In order to resolve disputes (which the minister knows very well) participants must appear in the dispute. On what basis would the rector be a participant? He's not the director. It says that he decides on individual rights and obligations, but it must be clearly defined, because we have only one Labour Act and only one Labour Law regulates employment relations, employer relations and employees. In light of the amendment, which was only a few members before this member, the Serbian government said the employers were colleges and universities. The Serbian government says the university is an employer. So who represents the interests of the employer? Director, manager, board of directors. None of it is in this law, as if it hadn't been years since self-government. But it's obvious that the brains are having a hard time getting through.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20446	Does anyone else sign up for a word? Here you go, Minister of Education and Sports, Mr. Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20447	One little correction. You don't all need to know that, you're not all lawyers. He is not the party's party director in the dispute, the party in the dispute is the firm; nor is the party's rector in the dispute, the party in the dispute is the university.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-16-0.u20448	Does anyone else sign up for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 39, against 102 abstentions, there was no vote of 20, out of a total of 161 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. This would be the end of today's work. We'll continue tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Bon appétit. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, the session is attended by 141 MPs. Please insert identification cards into your MPs to determine the quorum. I figure we have a quorum and we can keep working. I would like to inform you that they are prevented from attending the following MPs, Stevan Lilić, Dragan Šormaz, Juhas Attil, Pal Karolj, Teodora Vlahović, Ratimir Svirčević, Dragan Jočić, Nebojsa Leković, Sredoje Mihajlov, Zoran Bošković, Radmilo Misovic, Natasa Milojevic, Miomir Tadic and Srdjan Sikimic. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Secretariat for Law. Also, according to members 83 and 84. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that I invited representatives of the Centre for Free Elections and Democracy, representatives of the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities of Yugoslavia, representatives of the Student Union of Serbia, representatives of the Alliance of Students of Belgrade, students of the Study Group for Constitutional Law at the Faculty of Law of the University of Belgrade, representatives of the National Movement "Resist", representatives of the Low Student Association and representatives of the Student Federation. Before continuing to work on the 6th item of the agenda, a brief notice - session of the Committee on Justice and Administration will be held at 14.00 hours in Hall I on the ground floor. We are going to the 6th item of the agenda: - PROPOSAL OF THE UNIVERSITY(s) The MPs Nenad Lemajic, Milan Radulović, Bojana Alexic, Dragoljub Vojnović and Vladimir Andrić jointly submitted the amendment. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk emissary, Bojana Alexic.
