ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17351	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at 5:30 p.m. yesterday, a severe violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly was committed. In fact, Mrs. Micic injured a member of 101, and I demand that a measure be expressed under Article 103 because she used offensive terms and did not respect the dignity of the National Assembly. I quote a part of the stenogram that I am proving my claims: -"President: Ladies and gentlemen, since MPs from the parliamentary groups, except for the MP group DOS, which, most of all, holds the quorum in this assembly, since MPs from other parliamentary groups are not aware and think they are not obliged to participate... "Milka Marinkovic from the scene: Well, they are not aware. Milka, your opinion is not appropriate at all... (President: Please don't throw away. )......................................................................................................... When it comes to the state of mind, you have no authority at all. Yes, that would still suit you - a warning and the Assembly will work well afterwards, having a quorum any minute. So, Mrs. Micic, if anyone is aware, it is certainly not up to you to decide and to insult a large number of MPs who are aware, who know very well what they are doing, who are dealing with politics in the way they think they will be best for the citizens of Serbia, for Serbia and for the political party they belong to. You, even if you're a doctor, shouldn't be making a public diagnosis, it's a secret regarding doctors and patients only. So please, Mrs. Micic, whenever you are nervous, leave the leadership of the Assembly to one of the vice presidents, do not insult the MPs, it is not your job. It is your job to hold a session, to give your word, to take the word, to express the measures, you can do it best, not to insult the MPs who do not want to participate in the determination of the quorum. As long as the Constitution is like this, as long as the Rules of Procedure are in accordance with the laws, not only will you not be able to insult us, you will not be able to express any measures. Please refrain, I warn you again that you should count sometimes to five, in yourself, before saying something and asking you, Mrs Micic, to publicly apologize to all the MPs you brutally offended yesterday. The truth is that only you can punish, and most often at the address of a part of the MPs who, loudly obtaining it from the bench, often suggest it. The truth is, it seems no one in this room can force you, perhaps under some other circumstances. (President: Time. There, you see, time. But, Mrs. Micic, whenever you utter any measure, to any of the messengers of the people, remember what you say. If you have the same archaic toward you and us, the congregation will do well.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17352	Of course I have the same archaic towards me and everyone else. First of all, I urge and invite all the MPs to participate in the quorum as I have done; I have participated in the quorum since the beginning, since the constitution of the assembly I have not had a day of absence. Secondly, under Rule 28 I am obliged to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure and to take care of the order in the sitting. I do not think that I have offended the MPs of the people, but I appeal again, I call upon and beg all the MPs of the people to be aware and to adhere to Article 217. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because that's why we've been elected here. And it is said to that member: "The People's Messenger is obliged to participate in the work of the National Assembly. "In order for the Assembly to be able to operate, a quorum is needed; therefore, all MPs are required and are obliged to participate in the quorum; in particular I do not think it is nice that while the president of the parliamentary group is seeking a quorum, at that moment members of his parliamentary group are leaving the hall. I think it's a rough violation of article 101. Rules of Procedure and dignity of the National Assembly. If you're not happy with my explanation, I can put it to a vote. I'm putting on a vote for a breach in article 101. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, carried out by MP Tomislav Nikolic. For 63, the 93, with no abstentions, did not vote 20, a total of 176 MPs. I find, on the basis of this National Assembly decision, that no breach of the Rules of Procedure has been committed. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Branislav Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17353	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, I am reporting under Article 98(2), assessing that you have offended, among others, the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group. It's not simple, nor directed to use the word "awareness." We can interpret that we are not aware of the goals of DOS; and we are not really aware of the goals of DOS, and we do not think that we support those things that you are pushing here unless we consider that they are for the benefit of the citizens of Serbia. But I would like to remind you that you have 176 MPs in DOS, that there were only 109 of you and that means you have 77 unconscious DOS MPs, so here you go, change them and make them aware that they are sitting here and working in the Assembly showing their sincere support for the laws proposed by your government. If the word "we are not aware" is used in an ugly sense, I would just like to remind you that the DOS MPs when the Labour Act was passed, and among them you, Madam Chairman Micic, were not in this room and you deliberately left the room so that there would be no quorum. In this hall MPs of that time did not enter the opposition for two years, neither the Democratic Party nor the SPO and other parties, and some MPs are sitting here today for two years, but they have also used all the privileges that belong to the MPs, from the salary and beyond. Therefore, I must say that we are increasingly confident, as MPs of the Socialist Party of Serbia, and I believe the citizens of Serbia, that you, of us MPs of the opposition, want to create a flock of sheep that will have a patch of mouth; we will have to keep quiet, sit here while you sit at the bar or at the restaurant, and vote, to give a quorum and vote for your laws. We will always, when the laws are good and the members of the law are good, accept these legal projects if we consider them to be in the interest of citizens; but these same citizens must see that today there are only 93 in the hall; and you are the first to be in the political life of this Parliament to give a quorum, in order for the laws your Government proposes to adopt. However, when the debate is in principle, when arguments are given to change the members of the law, to be better quality and for citizens to benefit, to finally start production, to increase the standard, you go out and you won't listen, because you don't have an answer for the arguments spoken here.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17354	I've already given my answer to the predecessor. It's about the same remark, and I repeat: I don't think I've hurt the Rules of Procedure, I don't think I've offended anyone, and the fact that you've mentioned consciousness, I also think that in all these changes we should change our consciousness. I will not put it to the vote, as the opposition to the same article has been pointed out and we have already made a decision on that. Is anyone else answering about the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. The others are not offended. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: - PROPOSAL OF THE LOCAL Self-GOVERNMENT (principle debate) The word has a National MP Goran Ćirić, followed by the MP Miomir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17355	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honored guests of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, is here before us a proposal for a law on local self-government and I listened carefully to yesterday's debate in principle, which is marked by one common position: all the representatives of the political parties represented in this parliament are for the decentralisation of Serbia, and they have made that clear. But behind that stance, however, is what is behind it; all opposition and part of the parties they believe are in the authorities saying decentralisation is certainly necessary, but nothing needs to be changed. So we don't need to change the system laws. Many today are also starting to worry about systemic solutions, which will bring good to the citizens of Serbia and citizens who are most directly interested in this system solution, so people who love their cities and municipalities want to know these municipalities and cities well, and, of course, they know them best. From the experience of Nis, I can say, and this is what the public of Serbia knows, all those who care about spending and the way local self-government will be managed yesterday talked about it with a lot of fears and attention that this local self-government is working in the right way, and they mostly left us devastationed local budgets. In Nis, in 1996, 50 million marks were devastationed from the local budget, the red-black coalition left those debts behind, and I might say a little bit later on about the spending. We know what was going on in Zemun, what were the losses in Zemun and what was going on in Krusevec, and the public of Serbia is well aware of that. Now we're listening to these same people's lectures. I'm going to go over the subject and that's the subject -- the way you spent those budgets. I know it hurts a lot, but I'm sure we haven't forgotten it and haven't forgotten the citizens who remember well what you left for all of us: the destroyed infrastructure, the budgets that have been destroyed and the example from Nis about how the budget is spent. Since we're talking about how control is, because it's constantly talking about how budget spending is going to be controlled, it's the nature of your former government, the way you run -- control, control, and that's the most common word you've heard from this pay phone. So it is not a matter of control; now it is our task to give responsibility to people and how the greater number of citizens can participate in the exercise of local authorities with good initiatives and by accepting responsibility for themselves. Not by keeping the commissioners from some political parties in check and, moved out of the system institutions, managing the spending of these same budgets, because it was the easiest and it was the right model. It was your model, the model that financed the campaign directly from the budget in Nis SPS by spending a million marks. Your former chairman of the City Board of the SPS in 1996 is funding a million-mark campaign, where it directly transfers funds from the budget to print pre-election posters; and you are now talking about how to spend the budget, how to control it, and you are defending Serbian citizens from who and how to spend the budget. These are just some examples of our lives. The topic is the law on local self-government and speaking in the spirit of this law, exactly what hurts you, is not the main issue of control, but the question of the participation of the largest number of people who can give their responsibility and their creative knowledge in managing local self-government. The spirit of the law is the key to this story. The first and most important thing in it is the personalization of responsibility. You are afraid of direct elections, you are afraid of the names and last names of people who are famous in their environments and who can openly point out their name and last name on election lists that will be presented to citizens in the elections under this new law on local self-government. So, personalizing responsibility and the way we're going to get to the right people, which will represent local environments, fear of direct elections, call for proportionate elections, is actually hiding from the public. It's hiding from the public and that escape, of course, recognizes our citizens. How can local self-government function effectively? [[Sagar.]] Here we have heard fears that in the direct selection of mayors, which is one of the newspapers in this law on local self-government, effective functioning will be disabled. So it's not the mayor who's supposed to point out the mule in the heat, it's not the one who's supposed to play the cello in the Sinfomy orchestra; it's the mayor who's going to get responsibility from his citizens in the direct elections, who he's going to believe and who's going to make his team. It's a matter of hierarchy, it's a question of establishing an effective organisation, which will lead, by managerial principle, its cities or municipalities. And the fact that you're used to going through your commissary cabinets every solution, every decision, is something that's not part of this system law. This way we get efficiency in decision-making, as well as functions that you haven't even thought about, or talked about. So you have reduced the function of local self-government only to the care of municipal systems and, of course, that local self-governments must care for them. But the development function, what local self-government must do and to establish good communication of all institutions in its municipalities or cities, means through connections with economic systems, commercial chambers , the university, craft associations and financial institutions that need the right way to support local development - we're talking about it here. [[growls]] So, about -- how to look for system solutions that can stimulate local development. It's not a question -- what kind of technique to find out from the budget to focus funds on this or that firm, thus providing yourself with two acres or something smaller, but here is the question -- how effectively to pump these funds into our economy, into an unfavourable market, and how to encourage that economy. Another important aspect of this law is property. I'm happy that you've got enough courage after 10 years of silence and that you shouldn't have said what you're thinking, because I've talked to many of you who worked in local self-government and sit in these benches about how you should have run this topic in this House -- in which way the funds from the central budget will be distributed to local self-government. Yesterday we heard a few thoughts on the subject. I'll tell you that this is the right way to decentralisation. In what way? We have been speaking openly here for a year, thanks to the initiative of many representatives of local self-government who have authority in their communities, who have joined in the right way, through association of cities, a permanent conference of cities and municipalities of Yugoslavia, which in this way can affect all good solutions and be real negotiators with central authorities - in this way we establish a real relationship in conflict of interest. But, well, conflict of interest to the local and central authorities. What funding mechanisms are, because new functions of local self-government, such as new care for basic health, primary education and local police, require new local incomes. We have, in addition to the principle of solidarity that has existed so far, because we have heard that the primary problem is precisely in the way of funding, we have talked about the need to resolve this in another way; the most qualitative part of the sales tax is being poured into the central budget, and the other part is returning to local self-government, and we want to keep that principle of solidarity. This principle of solidarity is primarily important for cities and municipalities such as Bujanovac, Bela Palanka, Meroshin and other undeveloped municipalities, which will not have enough of their own income to function properly. Our wish was for our suggestions and initiative since last year, and this is already accepted, we define another principle, which has been forgotten; in addition to the principle of solidarity, which should certainly be maintained, the principle of motivation should be introduced for successful and those who rightly lead local justice. So, this mechanism will be set up, and precisely that share of funds above the limit, an absolute limit, established at a monthly and annual level in the law on redistribution of funds towards local self-government, will be 50% between local and central authorities. These are the real mechanisms; these are the questions where, I repeat, I am happy that you have gained enough courage and space in this democratic assembly to run them as topics. That's probably enough for you. We've brought these system solutions and I'm happy to bring new revenues to our local budgets. It will also feel like infrastructure; through the efficient functioning of all our systems; by connecting inseparable systems, such as universities, schools, businesses, local self-government, associations, professional associations, financial systems; and that is the only way we can in our exhausted market encourage local development. That's the second principle that is certainly new to you and that you will probably support intimately, but, of course, in public there won't be enough courage to say -- that, that's a good solution, a solution for which we haven't had the courage in the past 12 years. When we talk about new responsibilities, there is certainly much to be said on the subject of new functions introduced through this law on local self-government. It's a city manager's function. It is in the function of incentives for local development, and this should clearly send a message to all local self-government that they are also responsible for the development function in their environments, not by expecting plans in five-year and ten-year intervals from some teams of experts, which have led us to this situation over the past 10 years. A very common thesis for this speaker was that we give unlimited authority to the direct election of mayors, that it cannot be properly controlled and that it is a system that offends the target of Serbia. So, an insult to the citizens of Serbia is that you say that they do not know how to choose, that they do not have enough responsibility for what people will choose and that this is perhaps the greatest quality of this law - that we are giving this responsibility to the citizens of Serbia; and they know best who their best, most honest representatives in the local environment are, because that responsibility will be chosen in the right way and thus best control their local authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17356	I thank the People's MP. You are not mentioned (receives to Branislav Ivkovic who is looking for a word). Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17357	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have had the opportunity to defend in this assembly 11 times the legal projects that I have done in my time as Minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I was also pleased that a good part of the opposition voted for these legal projects. It was easy for me to defend them, because the legal projects were good. Now, just from the previous speaker, we've heard how difficult it is when the legislative project is bad. He wasn't talking at all about a legal project, which he allegedly went out to defend in principle. He was talking about things from the past that, by chance, are multiplying in the present. Because if someone's running the country today, then it's DOS Politburo. Staff solutions bring polythyroids and DOS polythyroids to municipalities and districts. It is well known who sets up primary school directors, although they have not even applied for director, let alone two or three votes at school, it is known that this is good, as well as who sets people up in local self-government. The second thing is that the previous speaker doesn't understand what the function of local self-government is. The function of local self-government is to develop living conditions in the city , and the economy must be strategically cared for by the Republic of Serbia, my dear previous speaker. [[growls]] You have nothing to do with it. Businesses you can help if you give it free land, if you enable water and gas pipeline. However, as you work with the economy, citizens who are left out of work and whose standards are falling.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17358	Has the word National MP Cedomir Jovanovic [[right on line]]
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17359	Dear Mrs. Micic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I believe that the good work in this hall is not pleasant when it comes to local self-government for two reasons: the first is that you have left an indelible scar in Serbian civil society, primarily through the relationship with those units of local self-government that were the political foundations of democratic society, among other things, the Nucleus of Serbia in which we live; on the other hand, you are, in a personal example, exercising power in those units of local self-government in which the citizens have shown you trust, also in what way and to what extent you are able to respond to the obligations that you are certainly following the function of local self-government. When you talk about local self-government, you talk about election theft in 1996. When you talk about local self-government, then you talk about cancer, about Bija, Milet Ilic, all those last names in the meantime, which you don't want to remember yourself either. So go back to this law on local self-government and put up with some criticism and answer the criticism of the arguments. In 1996, you suffered a political defeat at the level of local self-government, which you could not understand, among other things, because you were away from the citizens. I think that, as a member of the DOS group, we can benefit from the lessons you have learned from the government; not from the economy, but above all from the political, given that the economic environment is too complex and too serious and certainly cannot be realized and solved in the way that, let's say, you used to think, or perhaps someone would think of us. But the idea of local self-government is the idea of building a government that is closest to citizens; it's certainly not the idea of returning to the past, in which you and we both have a lot of negative examples. When I tell me, first of all, I think of those citizens of this society who in 1996, and even in 2000, tried to defend themselves at the level of local self-government to the part of our society that represented to them the last deviation in a time in which they had little rights. Therefore, this law also has a political dimension, which we must avoid, because in the time in which we live, the president of the municipality, the municipal manager, even a local policeman, there must not be people who will decide in the field of public information; there must not be people who will decide in the area of social security; there must not be people who will question the functioning of society, in the way that individuals between you in 1996 and even in 2000.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17360	The People's Messenger Miomir Ilic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17361	The Honored Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the legislator of this law, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, sets out in its explanation the constitutional basis for the adoption of the law on local self-government, in particular in the provision of Article 72(2). The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, under which the Republic of Serbia regulates and provides for the achievement and protection of human and citizen freedoms and rights. The solutions set out in the bill speak quite the opposite - Serbia's citizens are completely prevented from being subject to local decision-making. The right to local self-government is exercised directly through the freely elected representatives of citizens, i.e. The councilman. The highest body of local self-government is the municipality of the municipality. These are solutions taken from the existing law, but only in terms of the satisfaction of certain electoral rights, stemmed from the Serbian Constitution. This does not mean the direct participation of citizens in the creation of local self-government, through directly elected representatives of the board. And why - because the introduction of a new representative body, the president of the municipality, as an executive body, completely devalues the assembly of the municipality, and therefore legally elected representatives of the citizens. The councilman. The bill gives too much authority to the president of the municipality, establishing a presidential system at the local level. I give too much authority from the original and trusted jobs, and with no responsibility, the president of the municipality becomes a small God at the local level. He's got a knife and a cake. It's even more protected than the President of the Republic. It can only be replaced by some new Solana, through the transparency of the new DOS government. What will be the President of the Republic in the event of the adoption of this law - no one and nothing. The president of the municipality is the head of the bosses, who will have much greater authority. On the one hand, Kosovo, the protectorate and Hekerup's constitutional framework, without the influence of citizens on local self-government; on the other hand, the AP Vojvodina and the excessive powers of Canka in local self-government; and in the middle of the sandwich - central Serbia, with this law on local self-government and its application, according to that folk proverb "every village of Obaška". The introduction of new institutes, some of which are academic, such as the main architect of the municipality, manager, civil defender, has tried to court some Western allies, who are said to have developed local self-government. Serbia as a state and citizens of Serbia have a tradition in the development of local self-government, which is much stronger than foreign solutions. Right? The existing 1999 Law on Local Self-Government contains all the solutions that the European Charter prescribes as an obligation to function local self-government. The direct participation of citizens in the achievement of local self-government, through citizens' initiative, citizens' choirs and referendums, are only the optional forms of local self-government. To reverse the direct citizens' initiative, an excessive censorship of 10% of the electoral body has been set; the citizens' assembly has no authority; the referendum's calling is left to the parliamentary majority. By applying public republican revenues to local self-government, such as income tax, income tax, income tax, part of product and service taxes, benefit-use fees of general interest, local self-government is strengthened, which is in some sense good, as there will be more resources to address the accumulated local problems. But in other words, it poses a danger to disrupt the unique concept of a uniform development of the Republic of Serbia, contained in the adopted Space Plan of the Republic of Serbia. At the moment -- when the ruling coalition insists on adopting a new Serbian constitution, which still has to wait for a solution to relations in the federal state; then because of the fact that the adoption of the law transposing certain rights to the Autonomous province of Vojvodina is resolved and local self-government in this province; due to a proposal by one of the DOS parties on Serbia's regionalisation -- this law does not make sense and does not need to be adopted. The SPS will not vote in favour of the proposal for a law on local self-government, as solutions under the existing law are much better. The SPS MPs will not invite citizens of Serbia to civil disobedience, to burning, to collapse, for example. objects of vital importance and objects such as the Federal Assembly. Therefore, the SPS MPs, based on the citizens' initiative, are calling on citizens to be present on Saturday at 12:00 p.m. in the Republic Square and show how local self-government works in the form of a civil initiative. The theme of the rally is the citizens' initiative, in support of our President Slobodan Milosevic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17362	The People's Messenger Juhas Attil has the word, and after him is the Messenger Zivko Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17363	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm already the second term president of the City Hall of Senta. There is one saying by which to think globally, plan regionally, create and work locally. So to avoid the interparty competition in municipalities, it would be really important for the president of the municipality to be elected directly by the citizens, and instead of the interparty competition that these people really run the community policy. This, like many other things in the law, is in line with European standards. With the current ingenuity of the municipality, it can be said that we are only a janitor, a tenant; with this law, local authorities will become some kind of owner. If we don't trust selected bodies in municipal organs, then our intention to decentralisation isn't really serious. I've heard a lot of criticism on the co-operation of the municipality in the north of Vojvodina, and most of those people and MPs who have never seen that agreement. I am very pleased, because even now and now the proposed law offers even more opportunities for regional and sub-regional co-operation.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17364	The People's Messenger Zivko Selaković has the word, and after him is the Messenger of Kermeci Karolj. The remaining time of the Soviet Parliament group is seven minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17365	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have not had the honor of welcoming Mr. Minister. As usual, when I go out to talk, he leaves the gym. According to the proposal for a law on local self-government, the position of the Soviet Parliament group is clear. You heard this from the detailed presentation of Professor Pelevic, president of the Serbian Unity Party, as well as Mr Dragan Markovic, head of the SSJ parliamentary group. In a series of well-intentioned proposals and suggestions from the Soviet Parliament group, here are further comments. It is an incomprehensible urgency in the adoption of such an important law, especially in the light of the fact that certain provisions are related to the adoption of the Constitution and other laws. If the introduction of a district or region as a unit of local self-government, which is widely announced, appropriate changes to this law will be necessary. It is particularly incomprehensible if the text of this proposal states that it will be applied from the next regular elections. Does this mean, if there are extraordinary elections that this law will not be applied - it remains unclear and unarranged. The Law on Local Self-Government must precede, above all, the adoption of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the law on selecting committees and MPs, the ombudsman law, the law on labour relations in state bodies and other laws on which this law is based. The tendency of the proposal is to marginalise the assembly as the highest representative body and to give unlimited powers to the president of the municipality. The president of the municipality, according to this proposal, has legislative, executive and even financial authority. The decentralisation of the Republic's authorities cannot be replaced by the centralisation of the government at the level of local self-government, as the president of the municipality. So this law would now only be centralized in the opposite direction; instead of the Republic, it's at the level of the municipality. I would like to underline that the Law on Local Self-Government in some areas has too limited the rights and duties of the President of the Assembly, but this proposal has gone to another extreme and given him unlimited authority. In the view of the Soviet Union, it is not a bad solution provided for in this law that the election of the president of the municipality should be by direct vote, means that citizens are pleading for it. That should have happened before. We don't mind that the president of the municipality has more authority and authority, because he was denied it under the current law, while that excessive authority had an executive board. By setting up the main architect of the municipality and the municipal manager, the local self-government unit will turn into a private company of the president of the municipality and the manager, i.e. the chief architect. The status and criteria for their choice are not given by this proposal, and their choice is in the exclusive jurisdiction of the president of the municipality. So this would be our problem, which is that the president of the municipality is not given limited rights, especially in the selection and setting up of these two key men -- architects of the community manager. Given the weather, I'm gonna cut this short. This bill is inconclusive, individual members are inserted outside each context and there are many legal and technical failures. Also, he did not come across the approval of many units of local self-government, so he even caused division in the cisterns of municipalities in the ruling coalition itself. I have an example, but it wouldn't be nice to say it here, if there had been a fight in certain municipalities to redistribute the authorities under this new law, and he hasn't even lived yet. The law in this form will be difficult to apply in practice and would very quickly suffer changes, and perhaps even put out of force, unless there was some correction through our amendments. I don't just mean the amendments to the Soviet Parliament groups, but other parties that have given appropriate amendments. Most important for the Soviet parliamentary group, the issue of peasants and villages. I believe that this law is the status, law and role of peasants almost and that they do not exist, although the peasant is most concerned with the exercise of rights and his interests in the local authorities, the local self-government, is more specifically said in the municipality. There's a lot more to it than that, for example. when it comes to local communities, as the largest base of citizens, as well as a lot of other things. So, to conclude, as far as this bill is concerned, in principle, given that we have pointed to certain failures, although we believe that this is a very good starting point, so that this law can become good; we will in principle not support this law; we will eventually define ourselves to vote on the law in general depending on whether any amendments to our and other parliamentary groups will be accepted. I conclude, the Assembly Group will in principle remain against this proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17366	The word has been made by MP Kermeci Karolj, and by the parliamentary group of the reformists of Vojvodina and the Sandzak Democratic Party, there are two minutes left. The Serbian Unity Party spent the entire time, and the next MP is Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17367	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a law on local self-government. The truth is we've had a few versions, a few drafts of that law that we've considered at the level of local self-government, I think there's always been an improvement in the text and this text of the law is the best. However, many amendments speak of the fact that experienced people have considered this, many amendments have been accepted and I think there are some more to be accepted. I would like to raise several key problems that require changes to the law and the change of certain relations between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and local self-government. That famous article 6, which we've given the amendment to delete, is asking for an answer from the government. That doesn't mean, at least for me, that there should be no change soon and an addition to the law that regulates the property of the municipalities. I think that law since 1995, which is the Law on the availability of funds in its own state, should suffer certain changes, because without the property of municipalities it can't work much, it just relies on certain inflows. Another group of issues are taxes, and where it is seen that certain taxes are given to this law at a maximum, or 100%. It is interesting, however, that the government has kept its sales tax and personal income tax for the Republic's budget. I can say that the Kanjiz municipality has a smaller percentage of those taxes than this law provides - less than 8%. I can also say that the government has rewritten part of the text of the existing law as a legislator, where article 99 says it determines the percentage, and then the special law lays down the quota. For example, in the municipality of Kanjiz, a percentage of the sales tax is achieved in ten months and the quota is automatically realised, which means that all other funds go to the common budget. I think it would be realistic to leave the remaining funds above that framework, if already regulated by law, half and part to take the Republic, and part to be left to the municipalities, because it's known that these pairs are hard to live on. (President: Time. ) In the end, I support that in this law the local community remain; for example, in the municipality of Kanjiz of 13 inhabited places we have 18 communities and more than 30 million dinars are collected, which is a voluntary contribution that citizens make based on their decisions. In this way, certain investments can be made, which can be made by one local community, because neither of the municipalities nor the Republic will get the other money. We've submitted amendments to that part of the law, and we're going to do that when they're considered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17368	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic, followed by MP Dragan Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17369	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, rather than having a legislative proposal to decentralise the government in Serbia, this legislative proposal, as it is, literally strengthens Serbia's centralisation. This is not the word that came out of this because we in the SRS always speak the opposite of the proposals of the ruling coalition, but our words and our arguments have a foothold. It was earlier that through the centralisation of the political power of a political party or political options, the centralisation of the real state government was carried out. It's the same thing. The changes occurred when the current Law on Local Self-Government was passed. And as far as local self-government is concerned, the same process has now been done, with only one different model. The centralisation in Serbia is now being done by the concentration of financial power, the concentration of financial resources in the Serbian government, and by putting one man into the hands of the man, and in this case, the man acting as finance minister. Through financial power, of course, real state power, the real leverage of the authorities to dictate the conditions, in this case, of local law. What did the promoter leave in common with the earlier period? In fact, who has had continuity in local government since 1996, and you forgot that, gentlemen, you were then the Coalition Together, since 1996, holding local authority. What's in common? The same fraud, the same bribery, by having a debate in this assembly between those who represent the thesis that more of the sales tax should be left to municipalities and those who claim that cities are threatened. It's old pranks. This and this much sales tax is neither enough for municipalities nor enough for cities. This is why it is not enough - for the members of DOS, for the presidents of individual municipalities and cities who are not yet aware that they are here and in that function - because, gentlemen, apart from the investments that you futuristically plan to have, you have something called the ongoing maintenance of infrastructure; it is now your biggest investment. You have to invest a lot of money in this. Who are you going to get those funds from? You will receive those funds in this case from Minister Djelic. What are you doing? In the European Charter, you from there use only the part that suits you, one of the key points is that local government must not be restricted. What did you do? You did exactly the opposite. The previously passed law speaks in favour of this. You have now restricted local self-government in the Vojvodina area, except for the restrictions it has had from the Republic government, to the Provincial Government. Why? Because in this law you say: the municipalities in the Vojvodina area must seek consent not only from the Republic Government, but also from the Regional Executive Council. You don't introduce or expand democracy at the local level, you introduce a monocrat. Stories and plots that the people will choose one man who literally will not suffer any consequences, nor will they answer to anyone, these are stories for the naive. You can't be the head of a municipality without falling out and not respecting the highest legal act in the local self-government called the statute. You've made it very clear. The only thing you've accomplished, and that's true, is that you've remained consistent that the municipalities have local police. The mayor of Belgrade already has his sheriff.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17370	The word is made by MP Dragan Tomic, and then by MP Bosko Mandic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17371	Dear Members of the People's Parliament, I think there may be one of the most important laws that is definitely affecting the level of satisfaction of citizens in local communities and local communities. There's been a dialogue here today, with a series of accusations of government in the previous period. In 1992 DEPOS won 50 municipalities in Serbia, the opposition in 1996, 74, and I don't hear that after ten years of government in these municipalities, or six years in other parts of the municipalities, you boast something special about the results and what you have achieved by working in local authorities, working in the interest of citizens, creating conditions for these citizens to live better. At this point, you have maltenes, power in over 100 municipalities in Serbia. In Belgrade you have been ruling for ten years and the only fact you can boast is that all the investments that the Republic of Serbia has made in Belgrade have been cemented, closed and left behind for some other time. I guess, when some other government comes. What's good in this law, probably when these elections are, since this law is for some other time, we from opposition parties will take more than half of those municipalities. When some claim that we do not have direct choices, they are absolutely wrong, and how we like to compete with you in direct elections; and how we will win these elections; and how Serbian citizens know who will work for them, who will work for their interests and who has the staff who can work for the interests of citizens. Your self-satisfaction and self-satisfaction, that you are doing something in the interest of the citizens, shows an obvious flood of billboards across Serbia, through which you are trying to present a few things. And instead of these billboards, we'd probably make some bridges, save some country school, not just watch us talk about ourselves on billboards. When it comes to this bill, it is definitely in a variant that in one person, you count that you will win the election, and I say you will not, that through these presidents of the municipality, you will be most easily able to exercise the absolute authority that you are trying to promote there. The fact is that in an average municipality of 100,000 voters, one 15,000 votes will be required to win such a sovereign government. Be assured that we from the opposition will easily provide, and to replace us you will need 30 or 40,000 votes, which you will never do. So to clarify that fact, what's not good for the citizens, that's their voting rights; they're reduced here to a mere form. Citizens will choose their representatives for the SO committees through proportionate lists, who will choose their own president, and he will have a secretary or deputy and will be reduced to a regular speaker in the functioning of local authorities, in confirming decisions that will be made only by his own initiative by the president of the municipality, who has absolute and unimpaired authority. What makes us suspicious here? Some of the very simple facts you're proposing. For example, Article 56 provides for the use of municipal manager services, the use of services, and with that which will be the manager, a special contract will be signed, and then he will do the following - he will propose projects that encourage development, with a percentage, and will encourage entrepreneurial initiatives, as well as percentages, and will initiate changes and additions of regulations that signify business initiatives, of course, all at a certain percentage. Where there is the essence of the story of centralised and decentralisation, and I will do so very briefly; it is certainly an even greater cost to the citizens. How? In the nomenclature of the types of income that you provided for municipalities, as my colleague Jovanovic explained it plastically yesterday, you left a large number of incomes that have no value in themselves at all, so they don't have that functional thing, which is that there will be a lot of money from those revenues. You've completely limited those essential incomes to one level; you've abolished one of the highest incomes last year, you know it's a compensation for the use of goods in general; you've also abolished, and you could have given a second name, another form, a solid housing building. Today that part stands, the apartments stand, nothing is built, you won't be able to justify it, gentlemen, tomorrow. We're asking you, where's the money? No more, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17372	The word is given by the MP of the people Bosko Mandic, followed by the MP of the people Aleksandar Radosavljevic. Don't worry, we'll subtract when it's over. Is MP Bosko Mandic present? It's not. The word is by MP Aleksandar Radosavljevic, followed by MP Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17373	Ladies and gentlemen, dear friends, therefore, the law on local self-government that we have announced for a year is finally ahead of us. The Law on Local Self-Government has been tasked with comparing this very important area with European standards and I want to make a parallel through a historic part that Serbia has been going through. In 1839, Serbia dealt with issues of local self-government. Then she passed the law on municipalities and, unfortunately, from that time on, Serbia succeeded year after year, from decade to decade, to slowly fall on the scale and to reach the very bottom. After World War II, communists destroyed even more local self-government in Serbia, and through the people's committees created some sort of illusion of local self-government, forming such a legal system tasked with creating a dense non-functional network, all under the principle that it is a national will and that citizens manage local self-government. The asphyxiation of local self-government was continued in the early and mid-1990s already last century. The former regime then focused on towns and municipalities in Serbia that moved into the hands of the opposition in the mid-1990s, and now the authorities; then they started pulsing laws that had one single task, which is to bring municipalities into a vassal state. Among other things, one such law is the Law on Assets of the Republic of Serbia. Some of my colleagues mentioned it yesterday. With this law, the local self-government in Serbia was no longer even the owner of a glass of water or a cup of coffee with which it could serve its guests. As long as that law carries, and how many absurdities within me, I'll give just a few examples. If the local self-government, for example in Kragujevac from which I come, wants to rent a place after a completely implemented procedure, from making a decision, and making a commercial, to making a final decision, the whole process is moved to the Republic of Serbia Property Directorate. She then sends complete documentation to the government, the Government of the Directorate, and when she remembers, the Directorate forwards it to local self-government. Yesterday I learned that the city of Nis has 38 such unsolved cases, the town of Kragujevac about 18 or 19, and about the damage that is done in this way, is it worth talking about? The same procedure shall be applied to the acquisition and alienation of immovableity and shall take a year and more days. Another absurd is in cases where immovableities are exchanged between local self-government and another legal or physical person. So the potential difference that appears in value, which, by the logic of things, should belong to local self-government, belongs to the state. Because of everything I have stated about the harmfulness of this law, I absolutely support a large group of MPs who have submitted amendments to this law, with the aim of not transposing the fact of this law to the law on local self-government; I urge the Resent Ministry to put the law on the agenda as soon as possible which would repeal the provisions of this law or put it completely out of force. So, just like that, by changing or supplementing or by completely abolishing that law, the law on local self-government will be obtained on its content. Such and similar laws, as I said, the former regime carried out retribution against voters in Serbia and those municipalities where the opposition was then in power. I believe that by voting the proposed law, we would finally break the principle of blackmail and demeaning Serbia's citizens and therefore the ultimate hypocritical concern of representatives of the former government, and the current heavy and harsh opposition on issues of local self-government. Had their mind, which suddenly appeared to them, applied when they were in power, Serbia would not have been on the pillar of shame. To make evil bigger, they call this bill an insult to Serbian citizens. And how can the citizens of Serbia and we who ruled 40 municipalities and cities in Serbia call what was done from 1996 to 2000? They've changed the laws they wanted, they've introduced the laws, that's what my senior fellow MPs know, even most of the single electoral system, and all with an idea and a desire for the opposition to come out divided, so that they win and take power. Now they're fighting allegedly for a modern law. The only feeling with every decent man when he hears something like that is the feeling of nausea. They were ten years old, they didn't do anything, and now they're telling us to do better local self-government. There's something else they say - what you've done in your municipalities. Ask every president of the municipality, and it's very easy to tell you how well it's done. What we've done in the past year, you haven't done in 50 years. The truth obviously hurts. This law is facing another problem, and this is a lack of citizens' awareness, due to the half-century centralist heritage, that local self-government is exactly the right of citizens. Citizens must know that they are the ones who run the local community. The municipality is the property of citizens, citizens pay taxes, and municipal officials are civil servants. It is up to us to direct citizens in that direction, to become aware that local self-government and state exist because of them, not that they exist because of the state. The problem is also due to a mix of regionalisation and autonomy issues, with the fundamental issue of decentralisation being a political and social life issue in this case neglected. The government and the resolution ministry, in addition to these numbered restrictions, have normal and constitutional restrictions. Constitutional provisions were such that this law had to be adapted to them, but despite all these problems, this law is a major step towards the previous period that Serbia was going through. There are a number of newspapers that the proposed text of the law carries. Of course, the most significant newspapers in Articles 27 to 48, where the introduction of a specific system is envisaged to divide the authorities between the municipal assembly and the president of the municipality. That's what my colleagues already mentioned. Now the president of the municipality will be elected in the direct elections and he will be the bearer of the Executive Authority's sets. The newspapers are also part of the municipal administration organisation, where the possibility of introducing the main municipal architect, which was certainly in cities, and especially for the last 10 years, has been a major problem. The deployment of major experts in other areas is also envisaged, and above all in the health area. In order to strengthen the decentralisation process, changes are also in the financing of local self-government units, which is certainly a significant step towards the previous period. When we sum up everything in the time in which we live, which is characterized by many kinds of integration processes, we question the meaning and way of organising local self-government. However, if we carefully study all these processes, we conclude that in the new circumstances local self-government is precisely the one that is gaining importance and which becomes an irreplaceable part of a modern democratic society, which Serbia also advocates. By handling these principles, the government has made a major step forward by proposing one of these laws. We know this isn't a law that's going to last most of the time, it's not even the best law, but it's far better than any proposed and those solutions we've had in the past. We are also aware that what has been destroyed cannot be built overnight and cannot be enjoyed so quickly, but this is a big plus for Serbia and local self-government. As someone has already mentioned, this is certainly a historic session. This session has many important and significant laws, and one such is this law; in order to get into order of modern European countries, we need a modern and European law, and this law certainly is. Democratic Party MPs, under the ruling DOS coalition, will vote in favour of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17374	The word has the People's MP Ljubomir Kragovic, followed by MP Dusan Golubovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17375	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the draft law on local self-government is another in a series of proposed laws that are contrary to the current Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The explanation that the proposed law on local self-government will contribute to the acceleration of the process of deberocracy and democratisation of political and economic life in municipalities and cities is a mere political demagogy that we have been accustomed to since this government of the Republic of Serbia was formed. Reading the proposed law on local self-government leads to quite the opposite conclusion, as the proposed law on local self-government will lead to something contrary to the reasoning of this bill, leading to even greater red tape and a concentration of one man's power in local self-government. Article 27 defines the authorities of the municipality, the assembly of the municipality and the president of the municipality. What we can immediately see from the bill is that the assembly of the municipality, its president, the secretary and the committees represent only the decor of local self-government, and that all authority is given to the president of the municipality who will be elected in direct or secret elections in the municipality. The next chapter of the Law on Local Self-Government defines the municipal administration and everything would be fine if there was no duplication of functions. So we have a major architect in Article 55, municipal manager in Article 56, some local ombudsmen and the like. If there are established municipal administrations for various activities in the municipality, I do not see the need for the president of the municipality to appoint the chief architect, municipal manager and so on, because the question is what will be done by the head of the municipal administration for urbanism, and what is the chief architect and so on. What's missing from this local self-government bill? The electoral principle; it means part of the law that defines the way the councilors and the speaker of the assembly are elected. What is excessive in this law is Article 22, which defines a new concept, which is local police. The explanation is "stupid" and this bill doesn't show what kind of police it is, whose jurisdiction it is, what kind of uniform it is wearing, what kind of weapon it is. There are a lot of questions being asked, but we don't have an answer. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to remind you that this assembly, almost a year ago, unanimously brought in a Declaration that rejects and does not accept the constitutional frameworks of Hans Hackerup for Kosovo and Metohija. What did you do? You have trampled the Declaration, invited Serbs to register and occupying elections, and thus accepted constitutional frameworks. By doing so, the Serbs who stayed to live in Kosovo and Metohija left for the mercy and mercy of the occupiers and the Shiptar terrorists. The execution of this policy today is the worst possible way for Serbs in Strpce and Kosovo Mitrovica.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17376	The word has a People's MP Dusan Golubovic, followed by MP Radojko Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17377	Ladies and gentlemen, respected deputies, looking at the government's verticals for sure that local self-government represents the first scale, perhaps better put the first step without which there is no stability of the system in any country. Because of this, the proposal for a law on local administration is one of the key laws this parliament is due to adopt these days. The second question is whether it is time for this law to be passed right now or whether it should wait for the adoption of a new constitution, and above all - the regionalisation of the country, which will certainly have an important impact on local self-government's authority. The Democratic Party of Serbia is aware that there are certain reasons why the law should be passed as soon as possible. Here, first of all, I am referring to the alignment of our system of local self-government with the European Charter of Local Self-Government; this is, after all, highlighted in this proposal of the Law on Local Self-Government, although it is also quite questionable and there is a lot to talk about. However, the Democratic Party of Serbia argues that by adopting a new constitution, the country will have to change the law significantly, normally if we adopt it these days. We'll see if we can do it through changes and additions or if there's even going to be a new law. As a man who is directly related to the affairs of local self-government, more specifically the President of the City Government of Kragujevac, I claim that this current law also does not give or give small authority within the general government of the country. I'll just give you a few examples. For example, the prices of public enterprises services and public utility companies that are under the management of municipalities, or cities; in order to form a new price, this goes first to the Executive Board, you all know, the Executive Board sends it to the central government, which is obliged to make a decision within 30 days whether or not the price increases. I'm telling you from experience that in most cases, the government didn't even advertise -- there's no one here from the government, but well -- or very rarely advertised. Here, first of all, I mean the prices of heating, utility, water, etc. Not to mention the lack of property of municipalities or cities, because it is now all under the authority of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. As far as the proposal for a new law on local self-pourage is concerned, it has been done cosmetically in many parts, above all, due to the restrictions set by the Constitution. On the other hand, it seems that the bodies of this law have benefited from many of the experiences of the European Community countries. As far as I know, it's Italy, Spain, Sweden and maybe some other countries. This whole thing wouldn't be so bad if our municipalities were proportional to our population. However, compared to those countries, which have municipalities with several thousand inhabitants and municipalities with only a few hundred inhabitants, we in Serbia have, so to speak, giant municipalities, which have 100-200,000 and over 300,000 inhabitants. I think New Belgrade has over 300,000 inhabitants. That is why the proposal for a new law appears a big and perhaps a key problem, indeed where we as the Democratic Party will try to correct the proposal; namely, this law provides for the mayor in cities, or the president of municipalities to have absolute authority, so to speak - and privileges. Under the still applicable law, municipalities and cities have executive power, and under the new law, executive power is in the hands of the mayor, or the president of the municipality. So the mayor or president of the municipality will get all the powers that are now under the existing law, he still has an executive board, and even bigger than that. It's bigger from where all the officials will be underneath them. So they'll be able to set up from the city manager, through the chief architect, to the head of the administration, and for those who don't know, it's now the secretary of the municipality. We have one amendment here, I see he's been through the government, the head of the administration going to the assembly, but we'll see how it goes. Such a concentration of government can be a great burden on the back of a man, because literally everything will be on the back of a man, which can result in a number of problems, above all in the work of local self-government. At the same time, the office of speaker of the assembly will almost be completely defused. So here we have a completely different function, which is not in this current law, the president of the assembly, the man whose only role, in fact, is to schedule the assembly within three months. So, three months will be the legal deadline, but that also degrades the role of the council, which is also bad in this law; these people should be the main lever, or the headquarters of local authorities, because they were ultimately elected by the will of the people of that municipality. The Democratic Party of Serbia will try to amortise with a set of its key amendments the mayoral authority for cities, the president of municipalities, primarily by introducing city councils or municipal councils. These councils, with the president of the municipality, would perform an executive function and that would be a key difference between our amendments and the Government's proposal. So, according to the government's proposal, the executive function is in the hands of a man. We propose city councils, we propose municipal councils that will perform executive function with the mayor, with the difference between the current law and the new law in the basic law: which the president of the municipality, by function, will not be president of the executive board, but will enter the municipal council without office and chair the municipal council. However, at a session on January 28th, the government accepted a few amendments which, I say, are cosmetically and seemingly trying to reduce the mayor's great powers. I'll be honest with you -- the term office of the president of the municipality has been introduced in relation to the mayor. What does that mean? Who followed it closely knows - nothing at all. Simply, the mayor forms his cabinet of 11 members, and he remains the primary and executive authority. There's only one sentence that says cabinet members are helping the mayor. Someone said nice yesterday that they could be singing society, maybe a man likes to sing, so let them help him. To conclude - in the end, the integrated view of many things does not go in favour of the adoption of this law; however, understanding the overall effort to demonstrate the previously built centralist system, as well as the support given by the European Union, the Democratic Party of Serbia will support this law in principle; as I have been talking for nine minutes -- as far as the amendment is concerned, by the way, we will see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17378	The word has a folk MP, Radojko Petrovic, and after that, MP Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17379	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, quality regulation of the local self-government system is of great importance for the quality of life of citizens in the local community, and thus for the quality of life in the country as a whole. A declared right for citizens to perform public affairs can most directly be achieved at local level. The developed local self-government has a major impact on the overall democratisation of society. In the world, it is common to understand that local self-government is a school of democracy. The SPS had everything in mind in advance and it regulated constitutional solutions. Unfortunately, for known reasons, it began from breaking Yugoslavia to NATO aggression, which in practice could not have been fully implemented. Now that the conditions have been met to pass a quality and comprehensive law on local self-government, in line with the principles and experiences of developed European countries, we have received a proposal from the government that is in great part with these expectations. Many questions are less regulated than in the current law on local self-government. Not to say again, it is said, particularly about the unacceptableness of the proposed presidential system at the local level and the excessive powers of the president of the municipality, or what will be called mayors in the future. Due to the limited time for discussion, I will specifically point to only a few questions. First, it is good that national mixed municipalities provide advice for international relations. However, these provisions need to be more precise in defining many issues, starting with the choice, composition, overall competence, etc. It must not happen that these tips, instead of being places of harmony and promoting national equality, become a place of misunderstanding and dissenting. Secondly, the referendum, as the form of the most direct participation of citizens in the achievement of local self-government, is not given the appropriate place. It should be borne in mind that democracy is built from the base. There is an impression that the promoter did not want this kind of local self-government to be affirmed with us. For example, I will state the practice of municipalities in Switzerland -- on average, four referendums are held annually; on the issue of which citizens are declared, a draft is drawn up on several pages and delivered by mail to each citizen. In addition, a ballot with an envelope is delivered, as is the notification when and where the vote is being held. A citizen can come on the day of the vote and vote in a certain place, but he can also mail a delivery envelope with a ticket. It is not prescribed that more than 50% of citizens should be declared. Every citizen is allowed to plead. Whether it will use it rightly, it is his will, but no one is asking for most. Why don't we make a radical shift in the development of local self-government? It seems that this government only acts radically when new taxes and obligations are to be imposed on citizens, reduce social benefits and restrict workers' right to work. The next remark - provisions on the financing of local self-government are unscheduled. The economically underdeveloped municipalities are threatening the way in which certain needs are financed, which also provide basic needs for citizens. For example, in the field of health care, education, etc. There's little in this law about solidarity. Moreover, individual criteria are deleted that provided certain resources to underdeveloped municipalities. This has been done by the Socialists much more than is now proposed in this law, and they were expected to have improved. Furthermore, I believe that this law should have provided for a way of encouraging the work of civic groups and associations; and groups and associations of so-called "civil groups". Civil society should be organised and that the counterweight of the authorities. Every government tends to be authoritative. Therefore, the existence of civil groups and associations contributes to the development of democracy and control of government, noting that I need the funds to provide, not foreigners. Those who give, they know they have a price; they do not do it without any interest. Finally, I would like to point out that the reasons why the Socialists are asking for this bill to be withdrawn, the government to carry out appropriate supplements, to bring it into line with the European Charter of Local Self-Government and then deliver it to this assembly for adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17380	The word is made by MP Zarko Obradović (infringement of the Rules of Procedure).
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17381	I'm asking the Madam Chairman to find out that an injured member is 118. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. In fact, there are a lot of cards left in the MPs' benches, and there are no MPs here. I ask that it be determined, that it be seen which MPs are not there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17382	Following the intervention of MP Zarko Obradovic, who according to Article 118, who says that when he leaves the National Assembly Hall and leaves his identification card with the MP, the National Assembly Office will deliver the card to the National Assembly secretary and will be returned to him when entering the hall. I ask the Service of the National Assembly to pick up all cards, which are not with its MP, and to follow the Rules of Procedure. The word is made by MP Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17383	Dear Presidency, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, before I move on to what I predicted as my presentation on the proposal for a law on local self-government, I must in some way express my dissatisfaction with the way certain respected colleagues tried to practically disabling this proposal for a law on local self-government. It is, in fact, a series of incorrect interpretations of the Constitution and the very proposal for a law on local self-government, which are either a product of ignorance, which I doubt, because it was often the ones that were the eminent lawyers here, or it was a matter of reckless reading of the bill, or it was simply political marketing. However, these are so many casual statements that I will simply make an effort to explain it now on one occasion. Namely, one of our colleagues here said that, according to the current Law on Local Self-Government, according to current regulations, it was the internal affairs authorities who had the right to value legality, integrity, or in general the correctness of the administrative act for which the execution was required assistance. And now, according to this new law on local self-government, unfortunately, it won't be able to, well, my God, our poor citizens. About that, I really have to let myself say a few things, just like some kind of lesson from a colleague who said it. First of all, the police have neither appreciated nor appreciated the legality or integrity of the act brought into the administrative procedure before the municipal authority of the administration, for which its assistance is sought. So she never had that right anywhere, and she didn't. The only possible way and way, both for us and for the entire civilised world, is to assess the legality of the administrative act in the legal procedure, through regular and extraordinary legal medicines, in front of senior authorities or courts. The only people who violated this civilization's achievement were some people in Serbia, in those municipalities where the opposition was in power at the time, and the current government, in order to prevent effective exercise of power. If by any chance a degree in law school had the character of a driver's license, such a way of interpreting the law would be the reason for re-posing. As for what we call local self-government in Serbia, we can simply ask today a basic question - whether there is a local self-government in Serbia, or not? formally observed, there is a local self-government. It also mentions the Constitution of the SRJ, also mentions the Constitution of the SRS. True, there is a certain list of the competences of local self-government in these constitutions, but since the principle of positive numbering has not been applied, they are not an obstacle to the development of local self-government. There is the Ministry of Local Self-Government, we have the Minister of Local Self-Government and, of course, the Law on Local Self-Government. So, formal, we have local self-government. But if we look at the Law on Local Self-Government, if we look at the law that's already been mentioned here many times, and that's the State Property Act since 12 December 1995, if we look at some other regulations that are properly touched by local self-government, we'll find that it's an empty form. So this issue of local self-government has a characteristic that has been the subject of our society for the last ten or more years, which is that it has formal and declarative everything -- it has freedom, it has democracy, it has co-operation with the world, but the essence and truth are something different. That's how it is with our local self-government, which looks more like local administration than it is local self-government. Such an approach is not only incompatible with the Charter of Local Self-Government -- which was adopted in the Council of Europe in 1985 and which in preamble says that local authorities are one of the main foundations of each democratic system -- but is simply one of the supernaradical and perverse systems that feel best for our citizens. The difference between local administration and local self-government is essential. The local administration means a high degree of centralisation. Serbia is today a centralised state with a high degree of centralisation at the level of the government of the Republic of Serbia and very small powers of local authorities. On the contrary, local self-government is an opposition to the central government, a system with great autonomy from local authorities, which involves managing the local community and performing e-mails of local interest. The local self-government, as counterpart Radosavljevic has already said, is the right of citizens and we have to treat it as such. It is the right of citizens to manage matters of local importance autonomously. They'll know best, they know best what these jobs are and how to handle them. Centralisation is poor, centralization inevitably leads to inefficiencies, ineconomy, manipulation, abuse, government mystification, alienation and loss of feelings for day-to-day local problems, wrong decisions and corruption. Under such conditions, every job of citizens in bureaucratic structures is hell. Realising the right requires great energy and perseverance, as well as horse nerves, and sometimes a strong stomach. It's the state of our local self-government and our local administration. Whether it is the interest of the citizens and whether it is the administration as a service of the citizens; of course it is not. Not to mention the particular question, which is that local communities are political, that each in its own way is specific, that it has comparative advantages and disadvantages, that these specificities make up the management of local communities and that it cannot be identified with the governance of the state. All these facts the previous legislator did not know or simply did not want to respect. We respect those facts. We want the right of citizens to local self-government not to be a parole. We want citizens to really do it. We want to recognise the right of local communities to vary, to develop a healthy spirit of competence and, at the same time, establish a clear system of responsibility at local level. We want citizens to be politically organised through their local self-government. Local self-government must reflect the political definition of citizens to choose the mode of development of their local community. decentralisation is our commitment because it provides better allocation of resources, easier control of administration and faster and better answers to local problems and needs. We want to replace the current archaic, rigid, dysfunctional, and above all a false system of local self-government with a modern, efficient, functional, political, entrepreneurial and true system of local self-government. That's why we're passing this law today on local self-government. Unfortunately, this law on local self-government cannot solve for itself everything that has been so drastically corrupt in recent years. So before I move on to the law itself, I'm going to say a word or two about some steps that are necessary for us to finally have a rounded and established system of local self-government. First, property. I think that's where we all agree -- you can't have the right to local self-government in your full scope without property. It is urgent to adopt amendments to the Law on Assets in the property of the Republic of Serbia, or simply abolish the nakarad law that was passed in 1995. Second, the size of our local communities. The existing laws retained the basic structure of local self-government, created during the 1955 reforms. In the then Federation People's Republic of Yugoslavia, there were 3,900, and after that reform, only 500 municipalities remained until the end of the country. As far as Serbia is concerned, 2,000 municipalities existed back in the 19th century. There are 190 of them today, or 167 today, unless we are currently counting our municipalities in Kosovo. Our municipalities have an average population of 50,000. These are the largest municipalities in Europe. We have mega municipalities that have several hundred thousand inhabitants and several tens of thousands of hectares. Just the size of the local community is a limiting factor in achieving local self-government. The municipality of modern times must be large enough to possess adequate resources, but it must be small enough to preserve the atmosphere and the spirit of the community in which citizens can be politically realized. So the local community or community of several hundred thousand inhabitants; but then it can't be called local self-government; or, on the other hand, it's local self-government, but then it can't have more than 50-60,000 inhabitants. So, either -- or, one thing's not going with the other. This is the second step that must be taken after the adoption of this law on local self-government: optimalising the size of our local communities. This bill introduces a significant paper, in broad spectrum, from funding, organization, which has been mentioned here, new forms of local self-government, of course, to increasing jurisdiction in accordance with the principle of axiom in the modern world, which is that decisions are made closer to the level of application. It's quite logical, because who knows better and who feels better the needs and problems of local communities than the locals themselves. One of the newspapers provided for by this law refers to the authorities of the local self-government unit. It's the introduction of a system of division of power. This system leads to a clear establishment of a system of responsibility. Today, we have a congregation of municipalities, as a representative body, made up of a number of committee members who fulfill all their functions when they choose the Executive Board. We have an executive board, a collective body, composed of seven, nine, eleven, it doesn't matter how many members; it's the center of real power in the community. It makes all the most important decisions and is the institution of the executive authority in the municipality. In addition, we have a secretary of the municipality; the secretary of the municipality is an elder of the municipal administration. The secretary of the municipality is responsible when the authorities of the municipality do not work well, when they are inefficient, when they work slowly, when officials are unkind. That's the man, the secretary of the county. In the end, we have the president of the municipality; you simply can't find him and tell him what his powers are. I am the president of the Palilu municipality, and I find it very difficult to maintain myself within the framework of the powers provided for by the law and statutes. The authority of the president of the municipality is to convene the assembly session of the municipality once every three months and chair it. So these are the powers of the president of the municipality now May I have your attention, please? [[Dropping out of the O.R.]] I was fair and taught you what you didn't know, and now let me finish. You know, the president of the municipality is today the most common symbol, the most common figure. That's what's hard to understand. Why is that our problem today? Because citizens see it differently. Well, citizens experience the president of the municipality just as the head of the municipality and citizens expect that there is one man in the municipality, one name and last name who will be responsible for everything that happens in that municipality, who they will be able to turn to when they want their problem to be solved or who they can criticize when something in that municipality is wrong. Why is this bill good? Because it corrects this fundamental illogicality in the organization of the congregation of the municipality. The proposal is for the president of the municipality to be the bearer of the executive authority. So the president of the municipality will be responsible for the work, but he will have the instruments of government, with instruments that will make this responsibility sound and objective. It is a clear division of power and a clear establishment of a system of responsibility. Citizens have the right to directly elect the president of the municipality, who will be able to solve their problems and who will be responsible for their work. This solution, we have to say, because, unfortunately, some are not directed enough, is very much represented in parallel legislation; what is most important and probably the motive for why it is proposed here has proved to be very rational and very effective. That's why it's proposed in this law. Of course, the promoter, probably knowing our mentality, predicted certain restrictions in the performance of the president of the municipality. This refers in particular to the choice of co-worker of the president of the municipality, which is impossible without the consent of the Assembly of the Municipality, which is specified by the amendments adopted by the Government; but unfortunately, the Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted these amendments in any way. We need to really take them seriously when we talk about these amendments. It concerns amendments relating to the office of the president of the municipality, as an auxiliary body, in which the sun's associates; as well as amendments relating to the head of the municipal administration and to the chiefs of individual departments, where consent is sought. Only if we adopt these amendments will we be able to round up the complete system of division of powers, responsibilities and control of the president of the municipality as the holder of the executive authority. On the other hand, this way we will affirm congregation work. This is already an extremely well anticipated bill itself. Therefore, the assembly will not be an inferior, frustrated body; congregation work and commission work will be affirmed. The president can't be a councilman. The assembly has its president and its secretary. That way she's fully functionally surrounded. It is the only possible way that she, as a separate body, without any pressure or interest, can control her executive power. This solution guarantees rationality, efficiency and the establishment of a system of responsibility. Citizens will know who they should turn to to solve local problems, who is responsible for them. That's why this is one of the important things, I would say a marked mark of this bill; some, perhaps more importantly, changes could not be made because of the other laws that I mentioned. Just for a little while, it's a special issue for the city of Belgrade. When it comes to Belgrade today, there was a very serious problem; it was created when the opposition at the time, and the current government began to conquer the central city municipalities first and then beyond. Then the authorities were gradually drawn from these city municipalities first to Belgrade level and later to the level of the Republic. There is no local self-government in Belgrade's municipalities. So, as well as we can say for the most part that there is a local self-government somewhere in Serbia, we can say completely open and incomprehensible to Belgrade's municipalities that there are no local self-governments. That is because the city of Belgrade is defined as a unit of local self-government. It's defined by the existing Law on Local Self-Government. How to achieve local self-government at the level of two million inhabitants. It excludes each other; it's not a local self-government; it's either a local self-government or a community of two million inhabitants. A community of two million people can be a state, it certainly cannot be a local self-government. Inside Belgrade are the so-called city and suburban municipalities. The suburban municipalities do not yet look like municipalities throughout Serbia, and that is what colleagues from the interior know. City halls are the most common tents of the city's administration. These city halls aren't small. They have hundreds of thousands to 300,000 inhabitants. Citizens of these municipalities have no right to local self-government. And we from Palilu, there are about 200,000 of us, would be happier if we had as many rights as the citizens of Lazarets, without talking about Vrnjačka Banja, Loznica, Kladov or similar. I guess it's normal for the 200,000 of us living in a town hall to decide where we're going to set up a gig, where we're going to put that shoe cleaner on the street, fix the street, or fix the park. If we don't have those rights, city councils, and we don't need to be called municipalities for nothing, they shouldn't have political authorities like the president of a municipality or an executive board. This law adopts an important paper, which is the adoption of a special law on the capital; in Article 134, the obligation to adopt a special law on the capital within six months. The citizens of Belgrade have the right to the law. I hope by this law we will correct the injustice that has been done to the people of Belgrade in the last ten years. In general, we have a good law before us, a law that gives maximum in the existing frameworks, and therefore, without any doubt, it needs to be adopted. Thank you for your attention. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17384	The basis for the replica? People's MP Vojislav Seselj is looking for a replica. (Vojislav Seselj from the site: Replica, because my presentation yesterday is a very inadequate and offensive way. ) National MP Milan Markovic did not mention a single name, a colleague said and quoted a part of the presentation of a colleague to sharpen his own argument. You have no basis for replication under Article 2(1) or (2). (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: According to the Rules of Procedure. Of course you can. Here you go. MP Vojislav Seselj, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17385	You, Gordana Komic, act the same as Cedomir Jovanovic. When the law and Cedomir Jovanovic are in college, then Cedomir Jovanovic is applied. Cedomir Jovanovic broke the law yesterday, crossing the street outside the pedestrian crossing, instead of paying the fine, there is a pedestrian crossing there today. That's how you behave yourself. Of course the previous speaker wanted to avoid my name at all costs. He said it was an eminent lawyer. I'm the only authentic lawyer here. And you're Milka's eminent, but not as a lawyer, but in another way, but you're eminent. [[Zagor in the O.R.]] Third, he's here talking about his ignorance of legal and political theory. Everywhere in the world...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17386	I ask the MP to make a statement about a member of the Rules of Procedure who has been broken.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17387	It's about Article 98. Let me explain in my time where you broke the Rules of Procedure. (President: Of course.) You act the same way in other things. You've completely institutionalized the justice system. Zoran Djindjic and Vladan Batic have been pressuring the Fourth Municipal Court for a year to kick the SRS out of their rooms. The judge's on the run, he's on vacation, he's on the run, he's on his way. Now they've sent her on a work vacation and with their controllers, they're making her write a court ruling like they do. Today I received a ruling from the Supreme Court of Serbia, which calls for the renewal of the procedure for obtaining a traffic permit and registration plates, but is said to have never been taken away. Here, it stands in the Supreme Court's verdict. That's how you enforce law. This is where the MP from your parliamentary group responded for ten minutes to my presentation yesterday in an extremely offensive way. When a lawless man criticises an expert, and yet insults him, you say I have no basis for replication. That is why I insist that you allow me a replica of the presentation of the previous MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17388	Respecting the position of Article 3 98. Rules of Procedure of the Serbian Parliament, I remain that you did not have the basis for the replica and there was no better argument that you did not have the basis for replicating than everything you said in the discussion about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. You are right: when the Rules of Procedure and MP Vojislav Seselj are in collegiate, there is no solution. Do you want the National Assembly to declare itself? (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: Of course.) I ask the MPs to declare whether it has been broken by the Rules of Procedure that no replica of the People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj is allowed. 43, against 82, with seven abstentions, did not vote 26, a total of 158 MPs I find that the Serbian Parliament has concluded that it has not been violated by the Rules of Procedure and in the application of the right to replication. [[Vojislav Seselj, from the place: I now have a replica for you.]] National MP Vojislav Seselj, a replica to the explanation of the chairmanship of the Assembly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17389	What you're saying is quite appropriate, it's not wrong intonation. Of course, when my presentation or some of my proceedings are in collegiate with the Rules of Procedure, the Rules of Procedure must apply. Here none of my proceedings were in collegiate with the Rules of Procedure, but the case of Cedomir Jovanovic against the law. Cedomir Jovanovic broke the law, a new factual state is being established immediately. Tomorrow, if Cedomir Jovanovic kills someone, you will change the Criminal Law, and you will say, the murder will be punished unless the perpetrator is Cedomir Jovanovic. That's what you're demonstrating today. Cedomir Jovanovic committed a traffic violation yesterday. He broke the Public Traffic Act. He crossed the street outside the pedestrian crossing. He was caught by the press. If he hadn't been caught by the press, nothing. He was caught by journalists and today he draws a walking pass in that place. It retroactively brings a factual state in line with its illegal procedure. That's the point.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17390	Citing Article 220, paragraph 1, that the MP has rights, obligations and duties, as well as Article 84(2), which gives the chairman notice on the course of the session, I would just like to inform that my name is Gordana Komic. The MP mentioned Cedomir Jovanovic; he did not. The People's Messenger Milutin Svedovic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the People, Slobodan Janjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17391	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Mr. Minister, the current Law on Local Self-Government was passed in the fall of 1999. At that time, a kind of tutorship was introduced over the local self-government and then the government of the Republic of Serbia, intended to manage municipalities and cities by way of constitutional authority, has ruled over the entire property of municipalities. Not only is this act a state-owned social property used by municipalities, but the state-owned property on which the municipality had the right to property. The law, which is still in force today, on resources in the possession of the Republic, effectively makes it impossible for local self-government and future property to be acquired. Thus, essential citizens have nothing to manage because they have no property, and without property, there is no economic basis for applying the local self-government system. This is just one of many examples that the current law is about local administration, not local self-government. But it is also astounding that the legislator retains all relations between the central authorities, i.e. the republican and local authorities. This is seen in the part of the proposed law from Articles 105 to 114 which speak precisely about the relationship between the authorities of the local self-government and the authorities of the Republic, which means that under the same conditions there will continue to be the possibility of control of constitutionality, the control of the legality of general and individual acts of the units of local self-government by the Republic authorities. A positive assessment in this part of the proposal would give a reduced number of reasons why the government can disband the local self-government assembly. After all, it is entirely justified to ask the question, where is the consistency of the political struggle in the past 12 years and has the desire to reform society thoroughly? The draft law on local self-government, which is ahead of us, does not take into account the current social and political opportunities in Serbia. That is why the DSS parliamentary group has submitted 53 amendments; which, if implemented in this bill, would become comprehensive, adequate to modern European and world views on local self-government and, most importantly, be applicable at the moment. The new law that needs to be passed here must mean a wide autonomy of local authorities and a vertical division of power. It must also enable local authorities to regulate and manage certain parts of public affairs within the limits of the law on their own responsibility and in the interests of the local population. What is not good in this bill primarily refers to the broad powers of the future president of the municipality, who does not correspond to the assembly of the municipality for his own work. Thus, the congregation of the municipality is marginalized. If citizens of the local community cannot exercise their right to local self-government through their peoples, then this bill opens the way for the dying and red tape of local self-government. I must say that the financial independence of local self-government is a very important condition for political and social independence. In the part of funding the local community, the bill essentially changes nothing and retains almost all the legal solutions so far. Unfortunately, responsible representatives of local self-government, who have already spoken here and with whom I have been hanging out in the Permanent Conference of the cities of Yugoslavia and municipalities, I must say that regretting the solution to the restriction of the spending framework at the beginning of the year is very bad, so that with the projected inflation of 20% to 25% for 2002, or inflation that was about 40% in the previous year, this spending framework is being defused and it makes it unrealistic, while the so-called "higher" go to the republican budget. In this way, as so far, it has placed itself in an unequal position to fund the local community and the Republic. This results in local self-government not being stimulated to find new revenues and to collect more, as these new revenues and new funds lead to the monthly spending framework being completed on the tenth, 15th of the month, and the transport tax funds going to the Republic budget. The modern local self-government should be entrepreneurial and must behave as an economic operator, who will try to make a profit. Such a oriented local government will have the instruments to encourage the economic development of its region. I would end up with something that represents a real picture and an excellent illustration of how the previous regime advocated local self-government and vertical division of power. I have here a book called "The Management of the Local Community", published by the Centre of Liberal-Democratic Studies. Namely, the former MP of the SPS and former mayor, or president of the municipality of Gornji Milanovac, spoke for this speaker, during a debate on the current Law on Local Self-Government in 1997, the following sentence: "Only when one day we have loyal citizens, 100% loyal to this country, I think we can think of a higher degree of local self-government." Dražimir Marusic, MP of the SPS. The statement best discusses the reasons for the then ruling Socialist parties of Serbia and its coalition partners to turn local self-government into administration. It follows that only subjects have the right to self-government without citizens having the right to do so. The Democratic Party of Serbia will vote in favour of the bill in principle and will seek to discuss in particular its amendments not only to correct the text of the law, but to amend the essence of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17392	The basis for the replica? (He speaks to the People's Messenger Tomislav Nikolic, who seeks a replica. ) The former mayor of Gornji Milanovac, a former MP, was mentioned by the Socialist Party of Serbia. The SPS had coalition partners in the Yugoslav Left, New Democracy and the Serbian Radical Party. I don't know which of those coalition partners the MP meant, you don't have a basis for replication. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17393	I don't know what kind of game you're playing, why you're making me report a breach of the Rules of Procedure, when it's quite clear to you that I have a basis for a replica, and that you're trying to put a point on a party that's in your hands, by piling out who was in the coalition, you'd better mention who the Democratic Party is in the coalition with now, so let's put on the scale who was with the better partners in the coalition. But the MP who spoke before me clearly took a negative picture of the SRS coalition, looking at me just as he was choosing, (what are your people), looking at me when he chose the expression not to insult us, and to make it clear that it was about us. Yes, it is about us and I would sign that statement by Dražimir Marusic at the time spoken, because it was the fate of local self-government in Kosovo and Metohija. At that time, the Law on Local Self-Government envisioned a completely different way of regulating local self-government in Kosovo and Metohija, and you are not dealing with it at all. For you, there is no such thing in Kosovo and Metohija, nor have we, nor do we now have a majority of citizens who are loyal to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Republic of Serbia, and that is all that was concerned. Of course, the MP did not think at the time that there were citizens in Gornji Milanovac who were not loyal, so Gornji Milanovac should not have local self-government. I draw your attention to one of your problems, you'd like to blacken the previous power, you'd like to not accept the proposals of today's government, that the party you represent here remains the only one who knows how to write and interpret and the only one who is completely clean. Don't play that game anymore. First, tell me if you're the government or the opposition. If you're the government, how can you be against the law? If you are an opposition, what are you doing on boards with that authority and sitting with them in DOS presidency? To see one of your political parties' physionomys, to know who I'm dealing with. Sometimes I feel sorry for attacking you, these guys beat you up. Whatever you want. Which I'd like to load on my back, the weak one, who's already loaded enough. Sometimes when I see how much authority you're taking into your own hands, I feel like I'm helping people get you out of that coalition. Get rid of who you are and what you are, don't touch the Serbian Radical Party. Don't touch, we're on the rise again.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17394	Does the MP want the Assembly to declare whether the injured Rules of Procedure have been given the right to replication? I ask the National Assembly to make a statement as to whether the Rules of Procedure has been injured by the fact that the chairman did not allow the replica of MP Tomislav Nikolic. For 31, against 86, the two abstentions, were not voted 26, a total of 145 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted advertising on the violation of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Milutin Svedovic, the right to reply to the presentation of MP Tomislav Nikolic by reporting to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17395	Mr Nikolic, the Democratic Party of Serbia knows where it belongs and knows what policy it leads to, but you then voted for this law in 1999. I asked you one more time to check it out, but then you voted for this bill. If you're willing to sign this sentence, it's an honor to you and your party.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17396	The word has been made by MP Dragan Tomic, as representative of the parliamentary group, a replica to the presentation of MP Milutin Salesovic on the basis of the mention of the Socialist Party of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17397	Gentlemen of the People, when you try to present to the citizens of Serbia the bill and the law to say how you're going to do it, then obviously you're totally waving the subject, because you talk all the time about what someone in the previous regime did. For a long time now, in some municipalities of 10 years, in some six-seven, you have exercised power, but you cannot tell the citizens of Serbia what you are in these municipalities, where you have done for the citizens for 10 years in power. You didn't say that and you didn't say that. Of course, when you mention Gornji Milanovac, with all due respect to what you are doing now, the fact is that the economy in Gornji Milanovac has stopped, that you have stopped her and that there are people left without a job. Whether it is the work of the government of the Republic of Serbia or local self-government, but certainly not the work of the Socialist Party of Serbia and the Serbian Radical Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17398	People's MP Milutin Sr., you have no basis for replication. You have if the party is mentioned and then it is possible by the president or representative of the parliamentary group, because the presentation of MP Dragan Tomic is a replica to your presentation. Is anyone reporting for replication on behalf of the Democratic Party of Serbia? No, I don't. ) National MP Tomislav Nikolic on behalf of the Democratic Party of Serbia, so you said MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17399	There's a folk, he says, "Bless the early... "I am going out on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group, but you should have heard when the Serbian Radical Party was mentioned. I understand Mr. Svetović, and I consciously give him the right to replication. Its seat as head of the municipality of Gornji Milanovac depends on the votes of the DOS committee. If they didn't want him to be the president of the municipality, he wouldn't be president of the municipality for a second now, so that once needed, that duality of personality, to solve it. You stand in front of the mirror and say, "Will I be the president of the municipality, and those who don't count me at all anymore, but kick him left and right, that they support me; or I'll be a councilman as I've been chosen, let them get along and choose for themselves. Dražimir Marusic, with whom I have a friendship from the parliamentary benches, as with all the other MPs here, has at least brought natural gas for consumption to Gornja Milanovac. I think about 30 kilometers of pipelines have been built and when you make it 100 meters further, please report here to say you are the successful president of the Municipality of Gornji Milanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17400	National MP Tomislav Nikolic had a replica as a representative of the parliamentary group to present MP Dragan Tomic. By quoting what 150 other MPs have heard in the hall, it is my right to quote and repeat what the MP is saying clearly and loudly enough and not directly mentioned by MP Milutin Sredovic. Here you are, MP Milutin Svedovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17401	Yes, you mentioned me, Mr. Nikolic. That's right, and thank you for bringing the gas into our city, and that's what nobody's contesting, and no one's disputed that gas is good. Thank God it's there and we have the grace to use it, but the way they brought it and they left 2.5 million debt marks, which we're still paying back, we can talk about it a little bit. As for the economy, to answer to Mr. Tomic, these companies that failed in Gornji Milanovac, let's hope that we can get them out somehow, because they failed 10 years ago and all the directors of the companies that failed were from your party, the Socialist Party of Serbia. You're sick of that people over there, you're sick of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17402	National MP Branislav Ivkovic, a replica as president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17403	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the agenda, we have a law on local self-government that is obviously not a good thing, when the representatives of this law are only dealing exclusively with certain events of the last 10 years, and they enjoy very well the benefits of all that is left, the complete social property they sell, and all three cements. Let's go back to Gornji Milanovac. Mr. Dražimir Marusic as a real and good host, who loves his town, who loves his municipality, brought not only gas, but also water from Rzava, and the Taindustry Cačka and how well it worked, and at the time of the worst embargo she had produced and exported, made big money for this country. You, gentlemen, have forgotten that you've been in power for a year and a half and you've run out of time. You deal with yourself and your results.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17404	The reply to Milutin Svetovic's presentation was used by the president of the parliamentary group. You're looking for a replica since Milutin Svetovic mentioned your name. Here you go, Ambassador Dragan Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17405	When the subject is mentioned in terms of the economy and what is said about the companies now, it is public secret that there are crisis headquarters, which you have brought across Serbia, and today no one admits that it has brought crisis headquarters. Whoever led them, who was going in there; we have now the fourth generation of directors in a year, because the first three generations had to move; the fourth generation of directors came into those companies and all stopped. All that is done in these companies is to seek out a strategic protégé, as if Serbia had no business, as if no one had to, and as if the privatisation minister were only the minister of privatisation or for the economy. Show where you invested funds in Serbia in development, where you invested funds in new capacities, where you hired a young workforce. That's what I want to know. And that's what all MPs are interested in. Show that to the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17406	The People's Messenger Slobodan Janjic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17407	Ladies and gentlemen, at the level of Yugoslavia, we have a presidentially uninformed system; a presidential-invisible, office-absolute system operates at the republican level. And now we have a proposal for a law on local self-law that we could call content -- mayoral, refugee-local-palanian. It is true that this law does not decentralise local self-government; you are doing the most cruel centralization because by means of a bill like this, you are handing over all the authority in the hands of one man, i.e. The mayor, who is practically irrevocable by this law. Imagine Cedomir Jovanovic, a game of chance, on the lottery, getting to be mayor of a city. He'd spend his entire budget on idjip horses without answering to anyone. What happens if the mayor becomes Mr. Zarko Korać by accident?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17408	I ask the MP not to apply for the presidents of the municipalities, but to deal with matters...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17409	This is local self-government, if the presidents of the municipality don't belong there, get it out of the bill. One that he can think of to return to this local palace law and apply the rules of the wedding night. Under the law, a local powermaker, the boss, and in his bill, the mayor, can spend the first wedding night with a bride or groom. I believe the groom in Serbia couldn't even catch with his hair. And natural growth would be so great that we would be overpopulated. For this speaker here, a reformer from Nis did not make a proposal that this speaker should not be told by an MP who, before receiving a word, did not show that he had settled the electricity bill and the receipts of the infostan. You should have told Serbian citizens that in Nis last year 10,000 citizens protested against local authorities and that by cleaning out the plateaus, in addition to 1,000 bills, you found around 460 DOS membership cards, that they were all incinerated with a cigarette, which symbolizes that you smoked in Nis.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17410	I remind the MP of the obligation by the Rules of Procedure to respect the dignity of this assembly...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17411	Please don't interrupt me so I can finish my exposure. In the previous regime...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17412	If you intend to end it in a tone that offends the congregation... (Free Janjic: Just you stop the time you're talking about, and I'll wait.) .... Then you won't be allowed to continue.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17413	Stop the clock, then talk. While Joseph Broz ruled, when he needed railroads, he took out loans and made them. While Slobodan Milosevic was, when he ran out of track because of the embargo, he spoke - take off these (shows behind), put forward, let's move again forward. And now, Mr. Djindjic, as the train stands, drives the passengers out and says: rock it so the people think we're moving.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17414	National MP Goran Ciric is looking for a replica. The basis for the replica is - like the mayor of Nis. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17415	It is clear to whom the previous exposure is being sent. This exhibition is just talking about a clear strategy and what we have been looking at in this House since 1991, when this free democratic voice was to be extinguished by fully delegating the function of parliament; by putting one man from this party, whose member and previous speaker is; by bringing primitiveism and violence into this room, and that later passed on to the streets of all Serbia; we see what consequences Serbia is pulling out of it. I think it speaks of a clear strategy of this parliamentary group, and for your information, when we talk about electricity in Nis, it is a huge problem in Nis, that is, the problem we inherited, of course, because in 1999, in three unfortunate months of bombing, no one paid for the electricity. In October and November the month was charged interest and huge bills piled up. Many of us owe, and 120,000 households with whom you manipulate Nis eight months ago owed electricity and after the first initiative of 30,000 households and the user signed the contract, 60,000 signed a 70 per cent discount agreement on interest and solved the problem. There are 35,000 people left who were destroyed by low average salaries, which up to a year and a half ago in Nis were about 60 marks, and now on average are around 220 marks. They simply failed to serve their obligations and I fully understand these people; neither do I condemn them nor will anyone harass them the way you bullied those same people when they were on the street. They have their legitimate right to come out and say what they are not satisfied with. Or another example of behaviour in Nis, when one current petition is collected, that senior members of a former ruling party show their democratic principle and attack a youth who collects a petition, a known petition across Serbia. So these are two models of behavior, two images of Serbia, and you are the darker picture of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17416	A replica based on the party's mention -- the people's Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17417	Right away, let's clear up - in Serbia, since there is a multi-party, the only ones who have caused unrest, riots and the only ones whose citizens' assemblies have died are those to whom you belong. Never at any meeting of the Serbian Radical Party, never at any event of the Serbian Radical Party was there any excess, riots, riots... I didn't hear what the minister said, but I assume he was impressed by the views of the Serbian Radical Party. [[elevator.]] If we had once done what you did during the rule of Slobodan Milosevic, today the DOS would have preferred to ban the Serbian Radical Party. And as for the electricity, you really should show if you paid for the electricity, too, so we can give you the word. You belong to a political party that organised the burning of utility bills in Nis, in metal barrels that were placed in the centre of Nis. And don't talk about three months of power failure during the bombing. The whole of Serbia was bombed, so how come only Nislims didn't pay for electricity for three months? The whole of Serbia paid and charged so much for nearly three summer months that they could never be paid again. No, but you promised the citizens -- pay nothing, change the dictatorial power, and when we come, the debts will be forgiven. Now, pay that debt of your betrayed promises. That's all it's about. So, I heard Zoran Zivkovic say -- personally I never said it, maybe it was said at our meetings. You have deceived the citizens of Nis. The problem in Nis is enormous and the country is underestimating Serbian citizens again. Those who regularly pay bills punish new bills, and those who pay nothing, write off interest, write off debts, credit them, cause all of Serbia to enter a state where we will no longer pay our bills. That's what this is about. Nis citizens are dissatisfied with both the republican and local government in Nis. You can talk here about democratic tendencies, about democratic traditions, but Nis citizens are no longer satisfied with DOS rule. (Lowers from the O.R.: How many councilmen do you have? I would ask individuals to go to the zoo and close the door behind them.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17418	The word is by MP Zoran Micovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17419	Dear colleagues, dear guests of this assembly, this is an opportunity to discuss today this law, which is extremely important in the entire reform system in which we participate. I want to tell you that, as at the end of the financial year, the exact way of measuring the situation in a company's list, and every four years when they come, elections show the true state of the country. So, when it comes to local self-government, when it comes to the Republic government, government and parliament, this here, where we are today, the most explicit and the greatest sign of the citizens' mood, we are here, i.e. The ones they choose. On the other hand, you don't have to worry about what kind of mayor he's going to be tomorrow under the new law on local self-government and not be afraid of his ingenuity, nor should you be afraid of his will. The basic principle that will then guide citizens in their midst is the value, name, origin and effect of that man at local level. This results in his later responsibilities. Therefore, today, when in small or larger places the effect of the government in the past six years is looked at, and after these elections received by the DOS coalition, it is quite clear what I was talking about at the beginning of this story that there is no fraud. Mr. Prostanovic came out here, I'm sorry, he first told about the debt inherited by his municipality; yesterday from this pay phone, in a funny tone, Mr. Kruševec talked about the inability of the new government, and he did not say that by September the old municipal government in Krusevec had spent a one-year budget and owed a new debt of 55 million dinars. When we arrived in the municipality of Aria, we were met for a minus of the entire one-year budget, so, as a debt in the local community, for example, and the bills arrived in mid-1999; we came to power in 1996 and the last account came to us for some kind of raised transmitter, which had nothing around it. I'm not talking about it, dear fellow MPs, that the people who ran the municipality were unfair. I'm talking about the system, I'm talking about something that we're reforming that system, I'm talking about that these people absolutely didn't feel any responsibility, because they thought it was perfectly normal to be in debt forever, someone's going to pay for it tomorrow. We don't do it like that. Look at the final accounts. Why did the people back up so loudly and strongly support us in the 2000 elections in September? Because we knew we were doing things by law, doing things in public and being effective. There was a predecessor here (and he wasn't there) who said there was no effect. It's not true it doesn't have any effect. He said it was a failed economy. It's not true. Let him come to Ariel, thank God, and thank God for asking, business is healthy and right. Let's show him how businesses are run, but that doesn't make municipal leadership. These people who live there, who care about their firms, those people who voted us, they're smart people, and the basic reason for that fact is that they voted us. Of course my door, as mayor, is open to everyone, to all the problems and to all those who trust in this authority. All those who have closed their backs have always closed access to their ballot boxes with new ballots. Which is why -- well, because the effect of these people was catastrophic. Dear friends, when we're able to talk about mayoral intelligence, I'll tell you this -- the mayor's co-operation with all the institutions in the city was great before the change, October 5th, and, of course, after that. We succeeded at one point in the assembly's decision, unanimously, to award the award, the annual recognition to the local police station. And you know what happened -- the minister banned the commanding officer from coming to the reception and receiving that award. People did a great job, and they kept working. This also applies to many institutions in the city. When we speak today of what we have done, what is the role of local self-government - to serve citizens, to feel safe, to pass a fluid of trust between local self-government, between the local community and the municipal administration, between donors in certain affairs of municipal activity; we have managed to impose that trust, and tomorrow is the right of the mayor to re-law. If someone doesn't like it, let them choose the way someone will vote tomorrow, but we chose the right way, when people have the right to enter the president's office tomorrow, go to their councilman and complain about the problem in their midst. And, of course, according to what can be done, according to the means that are collected in the city, that will be done, and that is one of the basic reasons why people have trust in such ways of choice. It's a real opportunity to break up with one system, where it used to be solved on the committee, for four years in advance, who this new president is. This is not the end of the reform, this is a transitional story, which tomorrow, certainly, according to the Charter of Local Self-Government, the European Charter, will be able to be done in a high-quality way, which Milan Markovic, president of So Palilula spoke of here. All the mayors, all the presidents of the municipalities, and there were about 40 of us, from 1996 to today, have excellent indicators of their work. They are distinguished not only by what schools have made, like us in Ariel, roads, churches, homes of culture, libraries, reconstructed kilometers and miles of asphalt, but also by this new dimension of the citizens' relationship to local self-government, when the mayor, or the president's office, finds himself at hand, not every time to help, but at least in an opportunity to provide support to the infuriated; for it was more valuable for him at that time and for more men to remember when he went away and declared his condolences for an accident, but when he came to the wedding, so he made joy, turned over the tent and scattered guests. So today we know what we're doing. We know today that this law, which is here in front of us, is reform law and that we want to adopt it, namely that we would have the problem that has so far ruled in our environments, so that the way it's been ruled so far, would completely throw it aside and take a new path towards normal integration into Europe.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17420	The People's Messenger Tom Bushetić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17421	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the draft law on local self-government is unacceptable for SPS MPs for several reasons. I'll just name a few. First of all, a large number of good solutions from the applicable law have been annulled and divorced. The role of the council members of the municipality becomes peripheral, and their participation and influence comes down to a mere formality. The executive power is fully entrusted to the president of the municipality or mayor, which at first sight can mean a significant step or contribution to democracy, given the way in which the elections are made - a direct statement. However, taking into account the fact that the president of the municipalities under this bill has huge powers and almost no responsibility, then this form of democracy turns into its opposite. How else to interpret the president of the municipality as an exclusive commander for budget implementation; he decides in a administrative procedure in the second degree on the rights and responsibilities of citizens, institutions and businesses; he has local police. Well, he's just a real getaway, a real emperor. This kind of presidential system is particularly dangerous for Serbia, because we historically know about our destiny: as many principalities and as many princes as possible, the fewer states in Serbia. That is why we are constantly telling you that it is not directed to prescribe recipes from the West, because Serbia is specific; we have told you this when you have passed all the laws you have called reform laws. I don't want to talk about the privatisation that, as in our environment, led to the decline of industrial production and the mass layoff of workers. In this law, you introduce the Institute of Chief Architects, and at the same time you do not see or make sure that the liberalisation of the capital markets, imposed on you by the IMF, leads to the bankruptcy of companies and the liquidation of banks. We will now have in municipalities and our managers, civil defenders, but at the same time in Serbia prices are based, which is only one euphemism for raising food prices, energy and utility. That's why we can rightly say that in this law too, we're entangled in very side-by-side things and that the main problems are being pushed under the carpet. The law provides for the municipality's obligation to establish, monitor and ensure the functioning of institutions in the field of sport, culture, primary education and primary health care. Given that the basic precondition for functioning in all these areas is funding, we are confident that this funding will not be adequate with 8% of the turnover tax, with communal taxes, with self-dependence. That won't be enough. Starting from this very fact, many homes of health and many elementary schools will fall to the burden of the municipalities. This will certainly have the effect that many homes of health and primary schools will be shut down in more than a hundred municipalities across Serbia. The example works, in Pomoravska County, in Despotovac, Rekovec, Svilinca, and perhaps in Čupria, it is unlikely that local self-government will be able to finance their homes of health and, for example, remote primary schools departments. There goes the minister, and I wanted to say that this government too accepts everything the IMF and the World Bank say. It's a structural adjustment program. This programme is strictly adhered to by Argentina. You can see for yourself how far Argentina has come. And, on the very politics of the Western countries and representatives of the NATO Pact, we will talk more on 9 February at 12:00 in the Republic Square. Finally, the SPS parliamentary group received one letter from the Committee on the Protection of the Interest of Pensioners, asking for the removal of the EPS directors, the removal of the hired force and the reduction of the price of electricity. Since there is nothing we can do to help, and from the price reduction there will be nothing, there will be an increase, I will hand it over to the chairman, Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17422	I remind the MPs that they are required to speak on the agenda point, that it is a business obligation. The word has the People's MP Pera Cvetkovic. (Tomislav Nikolic: We have no quorum. You're required to interrupt the session. ) National MP Tomislav Nikolic is right this time. So, due to the lack of quorum at 13.50 to resume work, I set a break until 15.00 hours. The first speaker is Parliament MP Pera Cvetkovic, followed by Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17423	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in order to continue the session to discuss the proposal for a law on local self-government, please determine if we have a quorum. Please insert your identification cards into your MPs. I figure we have a quorum and we can keep working. I ask the People's MPs, who came in after determining the quorum, to take their seats. The word has a folk MP Petar Cvektovic, followed by a national MP, Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go. Ladies and gentlemen, please listen to the speaker. The word has been made by MP Petar Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17424	Ladies and gentlemen, please give me some attention. I was saying something yesterday, and I was fragmenting it, given that I've singled out my opinion on the Legislative Committee. My speech was particularly addressed to Article 45a and Article 45b of the amendment of the DOS parliamentary group, namely the DSS parliamentary group. I would point out, and this is the position of all relevant political groups in Serbia, that the existing Law on Local Self-Government is insufficient to develop further relations in the Republic and further decentralisation of authorities. However, I must say that, in addition to the shortcomings that exist in the current law and in the current bill, there is a series of shortcomings, and I would like to warn you that we are all trying to remove all these shortcomings together, in order to pass a law that will last and will be in line with the social relations and objectives that we have propagated in the previous elections. The main problem with this proposal for a law on local self-government, in addition to those I pointed to yesterday, is a discrepancy with the current constitution, as well as certain laws in some areas; there has also been a discrepancy with the European Charter of Local Self-Government since 15 October 1985. We, by the ministry and the government, have been given the reason by the draft law on local self-government that the new law on local self-government, among other things, is to comply with the European Charter of Local Self-Government, adopted by the Member States of the Council of Europe. We agree that, in due course, this charter, which at the moment does not oblige us, given that we are not members of the Council of Europe, will also accept us here, that is, our country. Therefore, by continuing, in particular, the comments made by the draft law on the president of the municipality or mayor of cities, I point to the provision of Article 3. The European Charter of 1985, where it stands, in the first paragraph of its position, that local self-government marks the right and ability of local authorities to regulate and manage essential parts of public affairs under their responsibility and in the interests of locals. It's totally fine, but there's a second paragraph, or position that says, this right will be a council or assembly composed of members who are freely elected by a secret vote, based on the direct, equal and universal right of vote, who may have executives who are responsible for them. This directly means, according to the European Charter, that this Article 3. Paragraph 2 does not provide for a mayoral system, but the European Charter provides that the assembly or council, depending on the state to the state, will bear the name of the vote elected by the voters, select their own body to represent the executive body - it will be the Executive Board, the Executive Council and the like, and thus exercise executive power in the local self-government, or local community. I do not know why MPs and the general public are not familiar with the provisions of the Charter, to which the government and the ministry are called. This provision directs the Charter to something other than the solution to accept the mayoral system in the local self-government, and to keep the mayor insecure, be careful, as an individual, executive and administrative authority. This solution appears in some European countries, however, this solution is contrary to current habits, with the political experience of citizens, because we have the solution that for many years the executive power in local self-governments has chosen SO, i.e. representatives of citizens elected in direct and secret elections. This issue opens up the possibility of mutual relations, which is not resolved under the draft law and the proposal for the amendment of the DOS Committee, so it is therefore necessary, if the presidential or mayoral system is already adopted in the local self-government, to adopt all amendments to the DSS which precisely regulate obligations, responsibilities, rights and the selection of councils and the president of the municipality, or mayor, as executive bodies. In this respect, their duties are precisely divided, and therefore the DSS proposal far more responsibly, more precisely and clearly regulates these relations.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17425	The word has a folk MP Natasa Jovanovic, followed by MP Srda Popovic. The remaining time of your parliamentary group is five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17426	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I expected DOS MPs, who are in an unwitting way trying to defend this radical legislative project, the Bill of Local Self-Government, to learn something yesterday from the lecture of Professor Vojislav Seselj, and that according to these lessons learned and new knowledge, the only possible enforceable and correct, will try to defend this legal project, which is actually impossible. By who knows which path confirms what the SRS is potential, and what the vast majority of our public sees, that indeed the non-communists in the DOS are in power. Because this cardio system of decision-making and running of local self-government is here to the end a perfect model and that cardio you hold back serves you with pride and honor, and today with the enthusiasm of many here have said things, mostly unrelated to a law that, of course, cannot defend, which is obvious. In all that excitement that again their majority would adopt this legal project, they seemed to me as supporters of this communist idea and as if they were at the sequel of the eighth session. If that were indeed the case, the DOS government, which, together with the minister of justice and local self-government, see wonders, Vladan Batic, wants to impose a radical legal project, speaks the tradition that local self-government has in Serbia, which was legally established at the end of the last century, in fact in 1889, to the first Law on municipalities, which you are destroying in this way. Not only will there not be a decentralisation of the public authority system, which was said yesterday by Proposer Vladan Batic, but the full power to concentrate in the hands of one man, the future president of the municipality, the mayor, as you yourselves who today are, will love, but today you will call yourself. The municipalities were property devastation, and that's true, but mostly in municipalities and cities where you, gentlemen of DOS and the Democratic Party, were in power while you ruled in the Together coalition. This political responsibility for the non-functioning of local self-government, which was some argument to Vladna Batic during his expose, not that it was not clouded, is already so obvious in municipalities and cities where, by chance, you received trust from the voters in September 2000 to exercise power. You do not do it at all the way the SRS advocates it, in a way that would allow citizens to achieve at the level of local self-government their constitutional rights guaranteed and that local self-government is as cheap as possible, faster and more effectively providing everything that citizens need. Not only are you introducing an autocratic principle of governance at the level of local self-government, but it is absolutely pointless for citizens to go to the council elections in their election units, because these committees will not be able to represent this right of sovereignty that citizens carry out in municipalities and cities at all, but they will only be a frontline behind which this concentrated power in the hands of one man, the president of the municipality, will decide everything. In addition, the prominent lawyers, and the president of our party and other legal experts from the SRS, have noticed that you are mixing the term entrusted and conveyed to the business, which is clearly seen in Article 3 of the Law. It's a matter of trust, and it's actually a matter of transferable business, where local self-government is allowed through this member to lay down regulations for certain areas, while she's the only one who can be entrusted with these administrative affairs. But one more thing, that the powerlessness in our country will continue, it is also obvious through Article 112 of this law, where it is said that if the authority of local self-government, or when the competent state authority assesses that the general acts of the unit of local self-government do not comply with the constitution, law or other republican regulations, which in practice is often the case, it has the right to open proceedings before the Constitutional Court for the assessment of constitutionality, which is absolutely impossible to do today in Serbia, since we do not have a Constitutional Court. It is obvious that it is not responsible for you to establish a Constitutional Court, so that not all of your anti-constitutional legal projects, those you have voted on and those you intend to vote on in the National Assembly. Since rarely any of you, almost none of you, mentioned our southern province, Kosovo and Metohija, I will ask you a question that probably you from DOS should have the answer because it is your coalition partner Rasim Ljajic who is there with some UN envoy yesterday to discuss the campaign, the upcoming local elections in three southern Serb municipalities, Bujanovac, Presevo and Medvedji. Do you know or do you not want to know what kind of situation the Serb people are in in these three southern municipalities and what elections it is and when it advocates Rasim Ljajic, and whether it will be the elections under the patronage of Steinar, the new occupier in Kosovo and Metohija. What happens next and where Serbia goes to all of us...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17427	Ms. Jovanovic, I warn you of overtime and on the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17428	Here, I'm finishing up... And those who today represent themselves as DOS and people who have been exiled from their centuries-old hearths.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17429	The word is by MP Srdja Popovic, followed by MP Petar Madzharevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17430	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is one more step ahead of us in a major reform of the state administration and decentralisation, and it is no wonder that such a number of polemics are run between centralists and anti-centralists. I would remind you that the Omnibus Law and the Law on Local Self-Government were also the original principle of DOS software that received the two-thirds majority in this assembly. No wonder it's on the agenda now. Another reason why this law is important, as some speakers have noticed before me, is that it is a basic condition for entering the family of European countries that have long since left centralised and inefficient power. The third reason is, of course, our citizens. The thesis the DOS represents - presented by the presidents of the municipalities, of which those who spoke for this speaker were elected for the second time - is that citizens want to influence their authority and that they can do so if the municipality has jurisdiction, and not only represents one service where citizens will receive an answer - we are not competent, we are not competent and we are not competent. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that here in the debate a lot of time has been spent on one of the least important segments of the law on local self-government, and I would like to remind you that this law, namely the local self-government unit, treats four important areas: the first very important area is the original jurisdiction; the other very important area is the original and transferred income; the third very important area is the status of municipalities. Only the fourth area is an organisation that should stem from income, status and original competences. We've spent a lot of time here listening to whether we should directly elect a mayor, like he has powers -- for me it's not a big problem -- especially in the discussions we heard yesterday, there was mention of the fire principle, the local pastures, which have their own police, the beatings. Ladies and gentlemen, our citizens are not foolish. They know who they're choosing as president of the municipality, and don't think they're going to make a mistake like that. The particular reason why this debate on the mayor struck me is that the biggest problem is obviously the parties who constantly convince us about this speaker that their ratings among citizens are growing, that they are getting more and more in the local elections. There is no opportunity among them in one municipality to find the honorary candidate to win most of the votes in the municipality by his name and name. So this is part of a very important process, and I have to, since the debate often goes to the other side, to remind you, the omnibus law, the law on local self-government and the law on capital change the character of our society. It's something that DOS stands behind and it's something that's going to pass through this assembly. Another topic that is very important and that I would use here as an example is the fact that in the area for which we have been working on amendments, in the area that, in this assembly, there has been a lot of debate on the subject of this law in the Committee on the Environment, therefore, in the care of the environment - centralisation or decentralisation do not exist as a question. decentralisation of the environmental protection system is not a matter of political determination, it is not a question of whether or not anyone likes it, it is a question of whether there is a system for environmental protection or not. So, everywhere, this system has been decentralised and I am very glad to say that the Committee on the Environment of the People's Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has considered six amendments submitted by MP Sinisa Mitrovic, who, by the way, is a very good amendment submitted by a group of MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia and that around these amendments, which increase and determine the original competences and revenues, as well as the status of municipalities in the area of the environment, an absolute consensus has been reached, regardless of what representatives in the Committee on Environment reflect the state of parliament. Now I will draw your attention to what these amendments are, precisely because it is a very important part of the bill's proposal, which is a very important part of the principled debate in this law, that we see through this important area why we should vote for this law. First of all, there is an indisputable fact, which is that local architecture is the key to caring for the environment. In one municipality, local self-government, which must have competences, local polluters, who are concerned about citizens, local self-government and the Republic and representatives of the public, means NGOs. Where that local armature works, there is a system of control, there is a possibility that they control each other and even without too much interference from the Republic we can get to very good results very quickly, as was the case last year in the municipality of Zrenjanin. What needs particular attention is to change in the jurisdiction, financing and status of municipalities when it comes to the environment. First, by voting for this law, where Mr Siniša Mitrovica's amendment to the original jurisdiction of the municipality was accepted by the government, for the first time by the Serbian unit of local self-government as their original authority, they receive environmental protection. That is absolutely true and whoever reads the law and amendment to Article 19, who has accepted the government, will see that it is true. Who thinks that planning and implementing plans, which so far has been the original jurisdiction of the municipality, in fact protection, does not know anything about protection. So these are very precise things, a team of lawyers working on it and it's a new original jurisdiction. There's also a second question about funding. When you give someone original jurisdiction, you have to give them the opportunity to fund the original jurisdiction. So far, those municipalities that were more aware of this problem have established their ecological funds have introduced special environmental taxes. Some other municipalities have not done so, and once we get a comprehensive law on the environmental protection system, it will be the obligation of the municipality. This is what is very important in the law on local self-government. The amendments, supported by the Committee on Environment of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which is the applicant of Mr Sinisa Mitrovic, are defined very precisely as the new concessions of municipalities, which will be deployed in a certain part between the Republic and the municipality, concern the environment, and have been completely centralised so far. Believe it or not, the adoption of this amendment and the law for the first time gives rise to pollution compensation as a possibility for the municipality's income. So far, pollution has remained in the municipality, and compensation went to Nemanja Street. It's exactly the same case with an environmental tax of 1% on investments, with a 5% tax on the collection of plant and animal species and, which is very important, and resulting from the Privatisation Act that we have adopted here, part of the funds achieved in the privatisation process of Beocinska cementara must remain in the endangered environment, in Beocino, as pollution remains in Beocino, not in Belgrade. It's something new and it's a new possibility for the municipalities. There remains a law on the environmental protection system to distribute as many of the funds as it remains where, but it is an exit from a completely pointless situation in which citizens have exerted tremendous pressure, especially on polluted municipalities, and they have not been able to give them any answers. The important thing is being resolved by amendments to Articles 98 and 99, the first was submitted by Mr Sinisa Mitrovic, and the second was submitted by a group of MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia and I urge you to vote for these amendments, because these are amendments that define the status of the municipality in the area of the environment. Believe it or not, in the current law on local self-government, which we intend to change, the municipality couldn't consider the possibility of having a larger share of the income paid, if it was a polluted environment. In the same way, the law treated one Pancheva or Bor, one Guch or Temerin, municipalities that have major ecological problems, municipalities that have very high industrial concentration. Thousands of Panchevi citizens signed a petition that the state of the environment in Pancheva was declared endangered and we from the government told them - we can declare you at risk, take one board, put you at the entrance to Panchevo and say that there is an endangered environment here, but no right in terms of your larger share of the incomes paid can come from it. That's what's definitely changing this law and that's what needs to be a priority. The last thing I'd like to mention is this local police force, around which there's a lot of stories. Whether it is defined by this law, whether a special law is passed on to local police, whether soon in the Assembly, which I expect, we are considering amendments and additions to the Internal Affairs Act, I must tell you that this country by the end of the year, which is the opinion of the people of the field, must be given a special department of environmental police. Foresters and fishermen no longer stand a chance of dealing with armed forest thieves and fish farmers, and that is one newspaper that is even the beginning of this law. What I'd like to finally tell you is that we're changing the system, decentralised the system; vote for the law in principle, vote for amendments to the Environment Committee, because that's a condition to create environmental protection. A step towards this is the adoption of the law on local self-government.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17431	The People's Messenger Petar Madharevic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people Sreten Mitrovica.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17432	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the new law on local self-government will decentralised power in Serbia, first in the financial part. Local self-government authorities will have the right to collect taxes, with the obligation to channel part of the funds for the needs of the central budget. The right of local self-government to part of the proceeds from the exploitation of natural resources will be established. Part of the state competences in education, health, security and culture will be transferred to the jurisdiction of municipalities and cities, in accordance with European Union legislation. I believe you have recognized the fourth chapter of the democratic government programme, the pre-election issue of DOS - December 2000. The European Charter of Local Self-Government is cited as one of the most important legal sources. The Charter itself was created out of the need to in some way standardise the local administration in Europe, and it established the principles that local legislation in this area should adhere to. The European Charter says that through the local self-government assembly citizens participate in local community governance. I think it should be stressed that Europe has not achieved any more significant uniformity as regards the organisation of local self-government. So, for example, in the Netherlands, we have a case that the participation of citizens in local self-government is achieved through the unity of government in the municipal congregation. In Italy, the municipal council is larger, which is the pandan of our congregation, defined as an organ of political-administrative guidance and control; in Austria, as the final and supervisory body overseeing the municipal board and administration and deciding on complaints about the mayor's decisions. In other countries, however, there is a more or less prominent role of the president of the municipality or mayor. In England, Sweden, Italy, Austria, the Hungarian mayor is elected at municipal council meetings, and then he determines his associates. Nowhere, however, there is a clean presidential model, as envisioned by the government's proposal for a law on local self-government. Practically the immutability of the president of the municipality could be avoided by introducing a qualified majority in the municipality's assembly; for example, if two-thirds of the council votes for the shift. The government, accepting Ceda Jovanovic's amendment, which even envisions a criminal measure for the municipality's already-authorised assembly, further stressed the irreplaceability of the municipality's president, putting him almost in the position of the medieval despot. The government, therefore, adopted an amendment that envisions the disbanding of the municipality's assembly in case its impeachment initiative fails. For example, non-elections, organised by the president whose shift is being passed. I am firmly convinced that this presidential model is not possible in practice in a sufficiently efficient way. I'll remind you that we're like a country at the very top of the world by corruption. The president of the municipality, which has absolute executive authority, which controls the administration on its own, which is also a budget officer, will objectively be most susceptible to this negative social phenomenon. The fact that our country is still in terms of creating democratic institutions is not important at the very beginning. Such an organisation of authorities at the local site is suitable for, above all, much more developed societies, where there is a strong democratic tradition, an independent judiciary, independent media and developed public opinion. Political parties, which are all over the democratic world, bearers of democracy's development, are now being put into a different plan. The municipality's assembly, as a central constitutional category when it comes to local justice, has been completely marginalized, has been deprived of all powers regarding the supervision and control of the executive authority. The government was taken over by the assembly and moved to the president of the municipality. If such a bill were to pass, it would result in the imminent weakness of one of the main pillars of democracy -- political parties. In a political sense, citizens would be completely passive. Once elected president of the municipality, it is almost impossible to control and subsequently replace it if it works badly. The SO committees would deal only with normative action on the proposal of the president of the municipality, without being able to monitor and influence more significantly the implementation of their own decisions. As a result, it would reduce interest in participation in the congregation. Many are the negative consequences that such a bill, in the long run, can cause. The bureaucratisation of the executive government, without effective committee control, will become a normal phenomenon for citizens in the SO. Such a solution is certainly in conflict with some of the principles of the European Charter of Local Self-Government, which say local self-government authorities should be representative bodies of citizens, and they may have executive bodies that are responsible for them. Therefore, public affairs, primarily, must be carried out by those authorities closest to the citizens. The Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group wants to fix this bill, primarily in terms of the balance of power between directly elected council members in the municipality's assembly and the directly elected president of the municipality, or mayor. We have offered, through a series of amendments, the introduction of a municipal council that would ease the enormous authority of the president of the municipality over the representative body of the SO citizens, which we will discuss in more detail in the discussion of individual amendments. As regards the financing of the municipality, there is no significant difference compared to the applicable law. We have suggested that 30% of the revenues from the sale of real estate in state property, which are used by municipalities, cities, institutions and other organisations whose founders are municipalities and cities, belong to them, so to local self-government. The government refused, as did the proposal, that 50% of the revenues received from the transfer of absolute rights tax would necessarily be invested in investment of capital character, which means that half of the money from the sale of local money companies would remain local. We have established additional criteria for keeping municipalities or in the city of funds collected on the basis of sales tax and income tax, where, among other things, environmental pollution is above the average level. The government has also rejected this proposal. The proposal on financial flow control by the board has also been rejected. Although the Democratic Party of Serbia has made a great effort to correct and bring the bill into line with citizens' interests, it has encountered an insurmountable wall of vanity with representatives of the justice ministry and local self-government. After the government's rigid stance towards a truly serious, comprehensive and consistent attempt by the Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group to fix this, our conditions, inappropriate law, it is really hard to vote for. Serbia, however, needs a new law on local self-government because existing solutions with their extremely centralised solutions have already been overcome at the time of adoption. All the changes in local self-government laws so far, apart from retaining centralistic, therefore ethical orientations, were aimed primarily at changing electoral systems and adapting them to the parties in power. This bill makes a certain step towards decentralisation by introducing local police, education authorities, primary health care, social protection and culture. The new solution is the direct selection of mayors, i.e. the president of the municipality, but the related personal responsibility unfortunately does not have a political dimension. Because, as I said, impeachment is not only practically impossible, but it's even dangerous for the council, i.e. The municipality's congregations to run it. In general, this bill deserves barely a weak two, because we still have to bear in mind that constitutional restrictions are very large and for a more radical step in this direction we need to adopt a new constitution, which would lay the foundations for one democratic arrangement of our country. Until then, unfortunately, we will have to settle for half the solutions such as this bill on local self-pour. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17433	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Sreten Mitrovica, and then Siniša Mitrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17434	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected members of the Association of Families for Kidnapped and Missing Persons from Kosovo and Metohija, another important law in the reform system is ahead, according to the government, DOS representatives. With this bill, the Government, or its representative, has failed to convince the opposition MPs, in his explanation, of the reasons for the adoption of this law. I'm sure they won't convince many citizens. It's just that nothing's said what's wrong with the previous law. And this law, as well as the previous one, will surely be passed by the will of your majority, and as this law will be brought to life in practice, the first court will give it to citizens who, as we know it, have first contact with the government in local self-government. One of the shortcomings in this law, and as a result of the previously adopted, is seen in the fact that no sentence anywhere, no mention of Kosovo and Metohija is mentioned in any place. During your election campaign, you promised many things to the citizens of Kosovo and Metohija, that you would quickly return the exiles to your hearths, that you would quickly solve the problem of Kosovo and Metohija. We know, all who lived in Kosovo and Metohija, that local self-government is one of the important segments that has influenced, together with education, health care, the fact that the Serb animal remains there and organizes its life. However, as the DOS came to power, nothing was done to help the local self-government, except that, without any legal basis, where it functioned, you changed the legally elected representatives of local self-government, and without any decision or legal basis, you set up some that would never come to those places with the will of the citizens. In the central part of Kosovo and Metohija, workers and representatives of local self-government, besides being left by the government of the Republic of Serbia, have not received personal income since September. So the last personal income was September income last year. In addition to being late, personal incomes are not at all consistent with personal incomes received in Serbia. So you're receiving personal income from the old, no increase. What did the Serbian government do in those municipalities that remained in the Serb enclaves and that contributed much to the people not moving out? What happened in Bezovica, in the municipality of Strpce, which worked and which of the government's representatives each day gets the wrong and different opinions - what to do. That's where UNMIK, since it can't put pressure on municipal leadership, starts to arrest, and particularly arrests are the representatives of kidnapped persons, those who demand to know where their loved ones are. They're being shut down. They beat and punish prominent citizens, such as Petar Saric. That UNMIK is not responsible for the local self-government, and our government does nothing to help the Serb population, it also proves UNMIK's attempt to shut down the municipality, or local self-government in Mitrovica. The citizens of Kosovo and Metohija are dissatisfied with so far's behaviour and assistance from the government, so they promise to come in large numbers Saturday to support us and I urge all Serbian citizens together to support their president Milosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17435	The word has the People's Messenger Siniša Mitrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17436	The Honorable Presidency, fellow MPs, the political transition process, which began in Serbia on 5 October with the People's Revolution, was founded by legislative production in the National Assembly, so that a package of laws was introduced in 2001 that significantly encourages democratic processes of political system institutions in Serbia and accelerates the process of change and transition to developed civil society. The law on local self-government marks the end of the country's centralized model, the rule of authority, which has ruled back decades in our lives, the system where Belgrade and the elected political elite have regulated this world's life of Serbia, tactically, precisely and wisely controlled everything -- and money, and social giving, and education, and culture, street editing, waste management. Such a model of collective dependence on the centre served the government of the political elite and the maintenance of power. During that time, Serbia was decomposed, rejuvenated institutions, and the rest were too old to manage themselves and all had to be asked about by a Belgrade friend. Dear MPs, the right of local self-government should be seen as an individual and collective right within the group of political rights of man and citizen. A sovereign citizen, motivated and involved in the local self-government system, will best know how to arrange life in his neighborhood, in the street, in the city community. The Law on Local Self-Government, the foundation of institutions in the municipality, allows citizens to return to institutions, their need to live in a better quality habitat. It is the right of citizens to know what capital investments are in their city, what air they breathe, what plans are being made, how much money is being allocated, how many states are being taken out of their pockets and how they actually live. New democracy, as a party to liberal principles, is the basis for original political philosophy, in principle, in local petriotism and European integration. The message "think globally, act locally" is pragmatized by the constant action that citizens by choosing a place of life become owners of their own destiny, to care for their place, to work usefully, united for the improvement of their end, that their place is the center of the world, which enables them to enjoy a happy life, a safe, healthy, satisfying cultural and spiritual needs, a life that will not drive them far from their home, in search of a better one. Dear colleagues, we must admit that we are all here, who represent the citizens of Serbia, the large or small local patriots, to work for our cities and that in every document of the National Assembly we want to root for our end. Therefore, the Law on Local Self-Government opens up the hope that the institutions of the municipalities will be in the position of citizens, allowing them to live happily in their place, where they create and rest, and to travel from it to the world and to be citizens of the world. The citizens' justification as a basis for the regulation of the human community will certainly be an answer to all the primitives that take place in transition societies, when certain political elites force national communities, an authoritative state, a sovereign economy and a conducting economy. The new democracy will support the law on local self-government, a law that brings us closer to Europe and provides a safe path to civilised society. The law on local self-government, we hope, is only the beginning of systemic changes, which ensued democracy in Serbia, and the citizen becomes important to himself and to the state. Of course, New Democracy will not give up the next consensus of political forces -- municipalities become owners of state property, and that is what elected colleagues today spoke before this assembly. We also think that contrary to a strong president, municipal councils or councils, which are directly elected by citizens, meet once a week and professionally run representatives of municipal affairs. This could be a balance between democracy and responsible business management. With all due respect, I call on you to support the law on local self-government and to provide democratic processes that bring the citizen back to the centre of events. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17437	There is a word from MP Milos Nesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17438	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the law on local self-government should be implemented, i.e. to enable decentralisation and deburocratisation of the state administration to the extent possible, because it is known, wherever we have the state administration, that they are following phenomena and centralization of government and bureaucracy. Indeed, this proposal for a law on local self-government has passed on a few life-forms to the city and municipality, i.e. local self-government, which is contrary to our wishes and programming promises by DOS, that many powers will be passed on to local self-government. I don't want to talk about municipal managers, I don't want to talk about the chief architect, I don't want to talk about the municipal police. I want to say that there is one proposal in this law that can be misused by local authorities, which is provided for in Article 13, Chapter VII and Article 13. 117 and 118, which discusses the co-operation and association of local units in order to achieve their plans, programmes, the formation of various enterprises in order to achieve common interest. I think only the word "co-operation" is enough to meet all the needs of the local population, while the word "jointing" and in the Semantic sense and in the political sense, I think that at a historical moment it can be misused so that it can happen to tear our country apart. For these reasons, I think it is necessary to remove the word "jointing" from Article 13, Article 117 and redecorate Article 118 of this Act. Since a lot of speeches were that the previous government had ruined the local environment, ruined local self-government and economy, I want to say that in the Kingdom government local self-government by this government, or socialists were not in power for five years; and five years ago, we had a situation that it was doing "Magnochrom" for us, that it was a car factory, "Jasen" furniture industry, we had a trading company "Stotex-trafficking-agricultural" and we had a big company to build the building facilities "Kablar". Gentlemen, this is no longer working. So I ask the question, what happened five years ago, and what happened after five years? Just one more thing about funding local self-government and local units, I think there's a lot to be said here. Kraljevo municipality, when we take the original and transfer revenues, gets the highest quality income from sales and services taxes. It's always gone from 17 to 27-28%. Now it's for the king's municipality only 8%; not just for the king's, but for all the municipalities, which I think is small. And 15% that are proposed for the city of Belgrade, I think, and that is already said, that these funds are greater than all the funds that will be given to other local units in Serbia on this basis.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17439	The word is a folk letter from Emilija Krstic, and after that, the Messenger of the people Bojan Pajtic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17440	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in my presentation, I will not appeal to what remains of our heritage after a 10-year or 50-year rule of previous systems. I will only call on the fact that this assembly assembly is tasked with bringing Serbia through the transition process as painlessly as possible; in it it is inevitable that this assembly assembly assembly in all areas changes and adapts our legal legislation to the laws of the European Union. One of those areas is local self-government. Today we have a law on local self-government, which was adopted in front of the Ministry of Justice and local self-government. At first, I will only refer to the fact, from the pre-election promise of DOS, which has won the two-thirds majority here, whether democratic institutions, strict decentralisation and government control are our primary task. With that in mind, what was said today and yesterday at this pay phone, I have to say what it was that we agreed on and what it was about that we disagreed on. The way institutions are educated locally under this bill, we will all agree, is democratic. A new institution is being introduced by the president of the municipality, in addition to the municipality's assembly and the president of the municipality's assembly, which is being elected as well as the committees -- directly by a secret vote. What is problematic is the seat of the president of the municipality and the assembly of the municipality in this bill. The Democratic Party of Serbia in all its public talks, as soon as the law entered into the assembly procedure, pointed to what its remarks were. We have also submitted amendments in this regard, but this would be closer to the debate in particular. That's what's not good, that the executive power that this bill provides for will be in the hands of one man, and that's the president of the municipality. It is not good that the president of the municipality does not have any control over the other authority in the municipality, which is also chosen by direct vote, so it came out of the will of the citizens, which is the assembly of the municipality. In this regard, the Democratic Party of Serbia also envisioned an authority that will come out of the municipality's assembly, i.e. it will be voted by the council committee of the municipality: it is a municipal council. But by reviewing the amendments, I saw that the government had decided on a cabinet system, which includes 11 members of the municipality's office, elected by the municipality's assembly and who helped the president of the municipality perform its executive duties. Of course, it is not precise how the body, or cabinet, helps the president of the municipality. What is not good in this structure, in addition to the fact that the president of the municipality has all the executive power, besides the fact that he has no control over the council committee of the municipality is the fact that there is no precise role of the cabinet. Furthermore, what is it that will result from these facts that I have cited? On the one hand, you will have the full lack of interest of citizens at the level of local self-government to run for the council at all, if it comes from the fact that they have no role in the control of executive authorities. On the other hand, you will have the consequence of the dying of the political activities of certain parties, larger and smaller, especially in small self-governments, i.e. in small municipalities. One of my fellow MPs talked yesterday or perhaps today about municipal administration and local self-government, i.e. on the difference between municipal administration and local self-government. It is true, according to the Centre for Liberal Democratic Studies, that municipal administration implies a high degree of centralisation, while local self-government is a system in which there is a large autonomy of local authorities and a vertical debacle of authorities. In that case, according to the Centre for Liberal Democratic Studies, local self-government is counterweighted by central authority. Local self-government has increased the impact of local factors on the work of local self-government, while the municipal administration has marginalised the impact and concerns a narrow circle of less significant businesses. I am saying this for one simple reason, which in the draft law on local self-government of the municipal administration's authority is regulated by art. 49-64. It is another sign that there is a slightly greater centralization of the government, which is not good and what needs to be changed, and there is a way to improve some things here in the debate in particular and the amendments. What's the good thing again? It is good that this legal project extends the work of local self-government authorities. It is, of course, necessary to implement the change in the regulation, which is the laws in the fields of health, education, home affairs, etc., all assuming that these changes will likely take place until the date of entry into force of this law in the meantime. It's only dangerous what we do in reverse order, and what can lead to certain drawbacks. Of course, these extended delicacies include wider funding, and from the point of view of funding, the DSS has proposed certain amendments and we will discuss this in detail. In the end, I will just say, knowing that it is necessary and necessary for the law on local administration to change and adopt, the DSS will in principle vote in favour, and the debate will ultimately depend on its position in the overall vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17441	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Bojan Pajtic, followed by MP Milan Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17442	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the modern critics of all the laws that have been in front of this assembly for days trying to convince us that this law does not represent a qualitative shift in relation to the existing legislation in the area of local self-government. There may be two reasons for this approach; one is that they are not familiar with difficulties, illogicalities, Scylla and Haribdas of positive legislation in this area; or others, that they are willing to obstruct the strengthening of the foundations of each state, including our local self-government, because of petty own interests. The existing law reduces to a minimum the number of competencies that local self-government has, on the other hand, creates complete confusion in a functional sense and in terms of responsibility for the functioning of local self-government. Only under the existing law can it happen that for the elemental area of local self-government, the municipal area, there are several responsible people at the level of the assembly and at the level of the municipal executive board or the city. For the purposes of this case, municipal affairs may be entrusted to the Vice-President of the Assembly, the Vice-President of the Executive Board, a member of the Executive Board and a secretary of the Secretariat of the municipal affairs; all are equally responsible for this area and no one is responsible for that area. I am surprised by the arrogance that those, who were economically suffocating the cities in which they managed, which in a political sense disagreed with them, are now seeking freedom from local self-government. For example, in 2000, the government of Mirko Marjanovic rewarded the town of Novi Sad with only 4.8% of the sales tax on products and services, below every minimum necessary for the functioning of the municipal system. On the other hand, in 2001, the new DOS government allocated 12.1% of the sales tax on products and services to the city of Novi Sad, yet not entirely satisfactory and it is absolutely certain that this percentage should be significantly increased. That's three times more than what happened to Mirko Marjanovic's government after the 1999 bombing. It surprises the arrogance of those who have centralized everything that could be centralized, so one clerk has defined thousands of directors in Subotica, Novi Sad, Belgrade, Kragujevac, Nis, Vranja, which is basic schools, which, by party principle, are not physically able to gain insight into their quality and competence. In that sense, they have derailed the Institute of Local Self-Government and have no legitimacy for this kind of debate. False accusations are that this bill is established by the Pharaohic powers of the president of the municipalities or mayor. Inaccurate as much as that part of the law has been corrected by the amendments adopted by the Government, which were accepted by the competent committees and in this regard by the deconcentration of the authorities at the level of the municipality. They're both inaccurate and essential. In fact, the bill provides for a whole range of new original competences in primary health care, primary education, culture, sports, ecology and a number of other areas. In fact, the only essential reason for the government's conduct at the local level, and it is just a deconcentration, is to exercise jurisdiction on the spot, that in this way the state's apparatus in the local self-government functions more economically and functions much more efficiently than it was before. This law offers a modern, managerial concept, offers a university institute of municipal manager, and thus local self-government ceases to be just a municipal system; it ceases to be only a municipal service of citizens, turns into an economic momentum of the municipality; it also becomes a creator of development opportunities and development policy at the level of the municipality, or city. The confidence of local self-government by the autonomous province, which is also one of the amendments, has been accepted by the government and resolution committees; it is an obvious sign of good faith and the willingness of the ruling coalition to decentralise at all levels; it strongly disproves claims that the passing omnibus of the law several days ago meant promoting the New Sad to some alienated centre of power in relation to other municipalities in Vojvodina, a estranged centre of power with which it will not be able to communicate and from which it will rule in absolute approach. Manchester and the National Council are therefore two new democratic institutes set up by this law; therefore, a civil defender who controls the state apparatus, which controls public service at the municipality level; a Council for National Minorities through which national specificities of minorities in the territory of the city or municipality will be better expressed -- will certainly create a much more favourable democratic atmosphere in our society. Therefore, gentlemen, do not claim this law to be undemocratic, controversial, discriminatory. That's how you confirm Spinoza's thesis, that there are often knives of criticism on the bra of nonsense. Vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17443	I thank the People's MP. There is no basis for replication, you did not mention, Mirko Marjanovic was mentioned, he is not a folk MP, as far as I know. (Branislav Ivkovic, from the place: Replica. No mention, we'll check the stenographic notes. There is absolutely no mention of any group or any of you in function. The word is made by MP Milan Jankovic, and the remaining time is one minute. After him, MP Miroslav Martic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17444	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, we have before us a bill on local self-government proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia or better to say one in a series of proposals served by the international community in further decommissioning and breaking our country. It has already been said that the SPS MPs will not support such a law, for the simple reason that, in many individual solutions, this is a whole step backwards. It is evident that all the good solutions of the previous law, which in practice proved to be good, have been made unacceptable by this proposal for divorce. The solutions offered aim to make the solution more complicated than to make it more quality and simple. Data are solutions where citizens become completely marginalized, where they lose any possibility of being the subject of any decision. The SO and its committees are practically just a decor compared to the authority given to the president of the municipality. The president of the municipality is establishing a presidential system, with huge powers and almost no obligations of the president towards the citizens. The drastically diminished influence of the citizens' initiative, the citizens' choir, the referendum, and the unacceptable solution is that the president of the municipality, as the executive authority, be above the SO, on the one hand, because it is completely marginalized by the SO and the committees; on the other hand, there is no personal responsibility, which, as I said, establishes a presidential system at the local level. There is great power in the hands of a man. He proposes projects, acts, decisions and takes care of budget implementation. Full power concentration... (President: Time. Here, I'll soon... the unlimited power given to the president of the municipality is further complicated by the recall, which makes the president almost irreplaceable because of the complex procedure. From everything, it is clear that the government, without its own vision, has rewritten a solution from Western European countries. Local self-government has a long and bright tradition in Serbia. It is incomprehensible that the government did not take that into account when making this bill. About the community's executives, the new law predicts... (President: I warn you of an excessive amount of time. )......................................................................................................... (Let me finish.) Fundamental rights under the obligations of institutions and organisations in the field of primary education, culture, primary health care, physical culture, sports, children's, social protection and tourism, which extends the scope of the rights in relation to the existing law, which also challenges the obligations and rights of the Republic established by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17445	Mr. Jankovic, I'm warning you of a time-out. Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Miroslav Martic, and after that, MP Predrag Mijalovic Lune.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17446	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, the Honorable Presidency, here I am one of the presidents of the municipalities called by Mr Milan Jankovic, MP of the SPS, to say what we think about this law: thank you for asking, all the best. The joke aside, the proposal for a law on local self-government is a fundamental law which, in some ways, reaffirms the economic and political principles that we have advocated in pre-election promises and is one of the DOS promises. This is a modern European law, based on modern European principles and modern European legislation. Anyone who has had the opportunity to get to know how the local government in modern Europe works, it will be clear to him that this law has been made in respect of these laws in a smaller or larger scale. By introducing certain areas and competences in local self-government, such as education, health care, local police, social protection, social care for children, it's a perfectly natural order of things for many reasons. One of the most important reasons is that practically local authorities had limited powers. We have been very often in a situation where citizens ask us what is the jurisdiction of local authorities, to conclude together with them that the jurisdiction of local authorities is very modest. And there's not much to worry about whether any of these segments will be abused by the president, or the mayor. Let us take an example of the police: it is not, at least as planned, in a position to be abused by the president, or the mayor of municipalities, because it is simply related to municipal affairs: is there something more natural than that local police, which should primarily regulate relations in the field of local traffic, municipal activities; citizens often damage green areas or woodlands, and you do not know who is in charge; it is certainly that the position of local police in this area has such importance. When it comes to funding local authorities, it is not right for SPS representatives to mention the funding they introduced ten years ago. When I say that, I mean the principle where part of the sales tax, which was the largest part of the budget source, is limited so that, when the level determined during one month is fulfilled, it stops that inflow and the rest goes to the Republic. That's true, but, gentlemen, you brought it in. In the previous period, so in 1996, I was vice-president of the municipality, when the coalition "Together" was in power, and that principle was in force. It is significant that if this planned revenue is not realised, this proposal, which is the decision that was adopted, the government is obliged to provide the part to the municipalities. You have one other unlimited part, in which the inflow is not limited at all, the municipality based on these incomes has no limit at all. If we talk about the mayor's election, I think the most natural thing is that he is elected by direct and direct statement; in modern Europe, in many European and other countries of the world, that principle has long been represented. That's good for a lot of reasons. You've had the most objections that great powers, the mayor of the municipality; that's true, but it's a great and responsibility if such a man is chosen by a direct and direct statement. In addition, there is another reason in this solution: for the first time, it is ensured that the mayor, elected in the direct elections, is as much political autonomy as it is from the political organisation to which he belongs. So far, it has mostly come to the city's president's post thanks to the winning political option, not thanks to personal qualities and abilities. This time, however, this situation is changing despite the fact that there is a political organisation that promotes the mayor's candidate, it is necessary that he has very important, organisational and professional skills to be elected to the post. The third thing: the current president of the municipality was imposed on human resources, and all the responsibility was mostly on him and the citizens experienced the functioning of the municipality through that man. The largest number of officials, vice presidents to the president of the executive board, were imposed on him as personnel solutions, even when it was the same political option. Allow, if he takes the maximum responsibility, to have the maximum right to choose his associates. And, in doing so, the remark that the president of the municipality will be elected by the secretary and chiefs does not stand, because in this situation the president of the municipality is proposing to the secretary, the secretary proposes to the commissioners, which means that again the president of the municipality proposes to the commissioners and in this segment nothing important changes. Don’t mind me just saying briefly what the situation was in the municipality of Uzice in 1996. Since a dozen elementary schools, half of them have been sneezing; since half the high schools, four have been sneezing; the halls of sports have been sneezing, the two kindergartens have been sneezing; that we have done nothing else for the past few years, I think it is enough that we have managed to bring these institutions of social activity and school in order. I can't say that we did it thanks to funds exclusively from the budget; we put it in order thanks to help and donations on the side, but we put it in order. If we measure success according to the criteria of the single segment, which Toma Nikolic put out here, which is the pipeline, I can say that I am a very successful president of the municipality of Užica and that Užice is a very successful city; we managed in the previous year to do 13 kilometers of gas pipelines in the direction of Čačka towards Užica. If the SPS MPs already want to hear what the result is, above all in the economic segment, was in Uzic during the previous period - and I say the SPS MPs, because in most cities, mostly the directors of large social firms were named after the political line by the SPS, their biggest economic success in the previous period was apparently the sale of ammunition; it was "The First Partizan - Designed" sold to Muslims and Croats, which we were at war, the most terrible thing we read today in the paper -- apparently that the other Milosevic or their party chief was informed about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17447	Right on line, MP Branislav Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17448	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, it seems to me that Minister Batic has more and more of his employees in this room because, for his part, the judge and the judge is the most popular role for this speaker. We really need to have a lot of courage and mention the destroyed New Sad, and unkindly forget the bridges that were built after the destruction of that New Sad, the renovated oil refinery and many industrial plants that were destroyed. You're talking about the percentages of sales taxes, that percentage may have been smaller, lower in quantitative terms, but you can figure out what traffic is today, and what it was then, given the standard of citizens and the level of production that is being achieved today. As for rights and finance, which the previous speaker mentioned for this speaker, it is true, local self-government is also getting what rights it is now, but with what money it will finance. The SPS parliamentary group has just proposed an amendment to this law on local self-government, which was aimed at obliging the Government of the Republic of Serbia if there is not enough in local self-government by all means to meet those rights received by local self-government, to make it up to the necessary amount. However, the amendment was rejected and a rabbit lies in that bush. Who will support your primary schools unless you raise funds? Are you considering that this is the beginning of a transfer of responsibility for reducing the rights acquired in the fields of education, social and health care.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17449	I give my word to the People's MP Predrag Mijailovic-Lunet, and after that, the MP, Marijan Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17450	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'll speak briefly about what no MP has mentioned, about primary health care, and all of us here are concerned. It's nice in article 19 that they're given to local self-government. That's good, but whether these powers are accompanied by financial resources; no. Paragraph 14 of Article 19 of this Law states that primary health care is handed over to local self-government. Gentlemen of the House of Commons, the legislators of this law must first and foremost know what primary health care means, that this is a complex scientific and professional problem, that primary health care depends primarily on one nation's health. You had to, Mr. Prime Minister, know that there are different levels of health care and that depends on the financial resources. In Article 99, it is precisely specified which for environmental science, which for education, education, and here is not mentioned in any word in primary health care. A hot potato has been given to the local government and will be able to carry out what is entrusted to it. We need to know that preventive healthcare starts from a prenatal period to the rest of our lives. We need to know one more thing - that it is human health; we still need to know that Belgrade is easy to carry out preventive healthcare, as it receives 15% of the sales tax, and half of Serbia buys here in Belgrade. How will Užice conduct this I ask you, in the hill-mounted area, where new health stations are to be built, there should be sheltered villages for a child to be examined or vaccinated. We only know before the elections to say "brothers of peasants," we'll help you and it'll be fine. And when we get here, let's forget the village, forget the small towns and say, provinces, you can live, no problem, from one choice to another. I did for this law on local self-government, but not in such a way as to remain inaccurate, so I believe that if the government said that it is a health priority, it must solve the problem and decidently state how money will be given for primary health care. I won't discuss it anymore, because I need my next colleague to say something.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17451	The People's Messenger Marijan Rističević has the word, and after him, MP Zoran Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17452	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my former colleague has delivered a good opposition speech, forgetting, or not being informed, that he is the authority. He fell into the fire here, so I didn't know who was behind the pay phone, and then I looked and I saw that it was my colleague and that it belonged to a group of ruling MPs. I have the honor of having this second law on local self-government. Less than two years ago, we adopted here, out of necessity, a law on local self-government, which they tried to verify victory and tamper with a centralist system. We are now adopting another law, which requires us to demonstrate their non-democratic centralist system, where one man ruled over everything and everything. I have the rare honor of equating. When they passed this law last time, I told them it would take a very short while, and it lasted as long as it did; it lasted even longer than it did. It's not our idea from DOS to defend this law with tanks, water cannons, or to verify power by means of this law. My colleagues from the opposition ranks are contradictory. They come out and claim -- we have the most voter support right now; okay. And then in the second sentence, they say -- you, through the direct election of the president of the municipalities, want to keep power at all costs. How come: if you have the largest number of voters, then the presidents of the municipalities, whom you claim to have the highest authority, will be your people and then we have reason to rebel. Why do you object even when you claim to benefit from something? The point is clear, citizens of local self-government have certain local interests and in order to achieve these local interests they set out certain revenues to realise these local interests. Also, citizens choose the president and the committees directly to take care of the realisation of these local interests. The powers of local self-government are greater, education, health care, culture, there is little security, but the responsibility is greater. They can no longer be removed from the local authorities -- see, we have no authority, go to Belgrade and ask. It is their authority, but it is their responsibility. I have a different objection to this bill. For example, in one member of the law, it says that foreigners have certain rights. I have to blame the minister of justice, he had to make sure it was reciprocal. Let's say, given the increased migration towards the Netherlands, according to The Hague, other Socialists have the greatest chance of winning power there if this measure is reciprocal. I won't be long. My predecessors said everything. Here, a well-known, large Serbian politician has scattered, mentioning some of the Führers, dictators. I thought the jaws would dislodge. I believe he understands dictatorships, very, very strongly I believe that he understands dictators, because he served himself for 10 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17453	Right on line, MP Predrag Mijailovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17454	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have to tell my fellow Parliamentarian Marian that I am well informed of primary health care, that I am well informed of which party I am, where I am, whether I am in power or not. Gentlemen, you who cast me in power or not, is there any such democracy on the globe that an MP, although belonging to the government, should not tell the authorities that he is wrong? He who tells anyone that everything is good, and this one is doing bad, then, gentlemen of the people, he is the one who is against authority; those who keep quiet, who go round and when they see their president, do not tell him "Mr. President, you are sinning", then they push him out of power. Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are not here to protect power but to protect the people. We're here today, and tomorrow we don't have to be. Once again, I must tell Mr. Risticevic - by passing a law on the return of jurisdiction to the autonomous province of Vojvodina, and I am well informed that our citizens are not in an equal position, because the level so-called. primary health care, which depends on the health of children, middle-aged people and the elderly, is not the same and they cannot be equal. One level of that protection will have a municipality, one level of AP Vojvodina, and one level of the Republic. Where are we from? Where are we? It's easy... Mr. Batic, it's enough when a man is in a minister's chair, not to hear the truth, or -- what the people think. [[growls]] I don't mind, but I'm telling you that it's simply a part of Serbia, like Western Serbia -- and you and I are in western Serbia, I think we're in Sapco -- absolutely oblivious to Belgrade and others. Okay, maybe you're in a ministerial chair right now, in Belgrade, but I'm not. I'm living in Uzica and I'm going to stay, defend the Uzici and the Uzi.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17455	The People's MP Branislav Ivkovic, on behalf of the parliamentary group, has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17456	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it was not surprising for those of us who remembered for a little while that the MP, Mr. Marijan Risticevic, noticed that under this proposal, the law on local self-government and foreigners had the right to take part in local self-government. We remember very well, when the current Law on Local Self-Government was adopted, Mr. Marijan Risticevic proposed to introduce the sheriff's office, probably cowboys, so probably foreigners of such proclivities could be very welcome to local self-government. Let me only invite him to come to the Republic Square on Saturday, February 9th at 12:00 p.m. and see what the citizens of Serbia think of The Hague and The Hague tribunal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17457	We continue the debate in principle. We have two more registered speakers. These are MPs Zoran M. Nikolic of the DOS parliamentary group -- the Democratic Party of Serbia. The remaining time is five minutes. After that, MP Borislav Novakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17458	Ladies and gentlemen, the esteemed people's emissaries, respected presidency, respected ministers, one of the most important tasks this assembly has to do is to adopt a law on local self-government, defined to respect that clear, modern principle of decentralisation of our country. Of course, the law should be in line with the European law. I cannot and do not want to say that this law is contrary, of course not, it is in line with the European Charter of Local Self-Government; and as one of the colleagues said in today's debate - this law is one big step towards approaching the European Union and Europe. It's our responsibility. But our obligation is also to step deep into the sense of organising local self-government towards the citizens of this country. The question is whether this bill on local self-government is an important and deep enough step towards achieving citizens' rights when we talk about local self-government. In this law we have one good news: it is the introduction of the authority of the president of the municipality; we have one bad news: it is that the entire executive authority is given into the hands of that body, or the president of the municipality. If we have respected the principles of the European Charter, it seems to me that we did not adhere to the tradition of the Serbian people when we talk about local self-righteousness. If tradition, history and our experience tell us anything about it, then they tell us that it's not right to give authority to one man and give him full executive power in his hands. It has turned out to be bad, we are still living, and we will still suffer the consequences of such a relationship with the executive authority. On the other hand, we have a congregation of municipalities. She's absolutely marginalized by this law. I think the aspects of this marginalisation are greatly worsened because local congregations should be schools of democracy, where people will be selected for the most agreed places in this country. It's logical that someone who will be the bearer of the highest state functions at the state level must pass the school of municipal administration and at all administrations at the local level. It seems very logical to me, and therefore the amendments to the Democratic Party of Serbia are heading towards a balance between the president of the municipality and the assembly of the municipality, which must have certain powers when we talk about the powers of the executive authority. It's, it's simple, it's logical and it's democratic. The people choose the president of the municipality, but the people choose the council. We have an obligation to speed up parliamentary life, both in the country as a whole and at a local level. We must give this right to our citizens on a local level, that is, when they choose their representatives in the local congregation. I said the local assembly must be a school of democracy. She's this bill of law, and unfortunately, I have to stop it, and she's become this party for grown-ups who don't get to decide anything. So, it's not a good position for a municipality like this where its function is marginalized, because the president of the municipality doesn't answer to the assembly but corresponds to the citizens in such a way that they can change it in the next election, so after four years. When we talk about the financial aspect of this bill, of course there are steps here but also insufficient. So by restoring certain competences, it certainly increases and is expendable when we talk about local self-righteousness, and in this relationship, the legislator of this law has given enough money to cover these expenditures. But there's no money here for investment of capital importance. Simply, local self-government has no potential and has no power to invest in what it projects, or in what it wants, and certainly those who work and live in one local environment, who are trained professionally in the best possible way, can assess what priorities these are when we talk about investment, for every municipality. When we talk about the former law, about 4% of gross social product remained local. According to this new bill, I've had opportunities with people to make certain budgets, about 6% of gross social product remains local self-government. It is far lower than European standards. European standards range between 8% and 10%. We have an example in England, where that percentage moves 12%. So in this context, the DSS has submitted 53 amendments. I appeal to all MPs that, indeed, when we enter into a debate on details, we take seriously the amendments. Because we have an opportunity, if on the one hand we are taking a serious step towards Europe and the Council of Europe, in terms of respect for this Charter of Local Self-Government, that, on the other hand, through amendments, we should quality-correct this law and also take a big step towards the citizens of this country when we talk about local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17459	The word is made by MP Borislav Novakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17460	Dear Presidents, honourable ministers, I think this is an important day in Serbia's parliamentary life and I think this legislative project is an important reform law, which will distance us or bring us closer to the desired goal and show whether we are ready to look into Serbia's history. Then when Serbia had no statehood, then when only the outlines and outlines of its state institutions were made, after the 1838 hatisherif, one of the first legal projects in 1839 that Serbia had been established, slowly but surely as a state, was the Law on the establishment of municipalities, as they then called it. Then, in 1866, the Law on Municipalities was passed, during Michael, and then, after the 1888 Constitution, followed by the Law of 1889; and already the Serbian state knew the institutions of municipalities, cuts, districts, even at that time when Serbian society was extremely poor; even when a certain degree of centralisation would be a natural consequence of a poor society and state, needs and desires to concentrate all the material capacities at the level of the central state government, so that it would be distributed according to the principles of social justice to all; even then we had one dissociated system of local self-government and then we demonstrated that we were a modern European people, that we had a modern European state. Are we at the height of the historic task today? I don't think we're completely, but I think we've taken a step in the right direction. Basically, the question is, what kind of state do we want, do we want a cheap or expensive state? If we want a cheap state, it's a country where most of the authority is at the level of local self-government. The main problem now is that all, or most of the ingenuities, are concentrated at the level of the central state and how you go from the central state level to the locale, according to the region, is becoming less and less competent. On the contrary, a cheaply regulated state solves most of the things at the local level; anything cheaper and more rational to solve at local level is entrusted to local self-government; as it goes from local level to central state levels, so the level of jurisdiction declines, thus moving revenues from central state authorities to local state authorities. This is also important from a psychological level; therefore we make local self-government active; it is interested in its position and therefore it is not just a mere transmission of central state authorities. It is important politically, because decentralisation of the state essentially means sharing responsibility between central and local state authorities. At this point in Serbia, there are entire areas, such as education, such as health care, which are before the subject of headaches, rather than virility, rather than the source of the need to manage them. On the contrary, at this point in time these areas are in such financial debt that any government, in this case local, which takes over the management of resources, when it comes to primary education and when it comes to health care, will have to correct all of this and will have major problems. It is also important, and it seems to me that this law is going to meet this, an economically more independent position of local ammo-government and the fact that it is not only a place where a certain portion of income is being held and spent, but through the institution of the general manager, the possibility of economic activity has been created, that cities for the first time not only worry about preserving their property, but also about how to increase that property. The question is, is the mayoral system good or bad? I'm afraid that's where this is placed on a demagogue-political level. I ask you, does the higher authority have a politician who builds his authority in the electoral body or in the party structure? Why do parties, which have few authoritative individuals, talk so much about a proponent system, when the nature of local authorities is such that voters need to be in direct contact, to know their own committee, that they can address it. In a proportional system, politicians build their authority in party oligarchy. It doesn't matter what the electoral body thinks of you and how you're positioned in the electoral body, but what the party's structure thinks of you, whether you're influential or less influential within the party, which then puts you through the list in the Assembly. On the contrary, the majority system is good because you have to build authority with voters, and I am telling you in the case of Novi Sad, which is one of the perhaps most urbanized centres in the entire country, a daca in 60% of election units condemns the individual's personal authority, not party membership. We know many councilmen who won the election against their party membership, but people voted for them because they know them as school friends, because they recognize them as the people they stand with at the bus station, at the football game, because they go to the same clubs, because their kids go to the same school. That is why the majority system is important and it only bothers those parties who do not have enough authoritative individuals and who are afraid to look the electorate in the eyes. It's the same thing with the mayor. The political question is - does the higher authority have the mayor elected by the citizens and which authority is based on the choice and support of the citizens or mayor elected by the Assembly? And the best mayor can be transferred to the Assembly, where the council members sit. Why -- well, because it's a matter of political agreement, because it's a strange coalition thing; if it's unfavorable within the council benches, it can perform its function perfectly, it will be replaced. On the contrary, when the mayor bases his authority on the electoral body, then that authority is sourced, then that authority is doubtless and then no one can play. As far as the mayor's jurisdiction is concerned, I think there's a large dose of misunderstanding. We inherited a self-adjusted way of thinking; we definitely, instead of the principle of sharing responsibilities, which is why we are all otherwise prone to psychological and political reasons, we have to accept the principle that is inaugurated by the new mayoral system, which is the principle of taking responsibility. We live in a world where only results are measured, where efficiency is measured. Problems have to be solved in the same day, sometimes successes have been measured for minutes. No more time for procedures, no more time for formal-legal scales, commissions, working groups, executive committees, to pass two, three, five, six months, so when the decision goes through, the institutional filter of all the instances that need to be made known, then we make a decision. There's no more time. Decisions are made in one day, the work of the mayor must be measurable, comparable and valued from day to day; therefore this system is good and therefore I am personally prone to him. I also see the great virtue of this legislative project in extending jurisdiction, which is a range of sources of revenue higher and that these revenues are more generous than those that were before. Mr. Pitiæ was talking about 4.8%. I'd fix it - 40% goes to the federal register, and of those 60% that go to the republican register, you get 4.8%. In absolute terms, it's below 4.8%. The new Now and City Administration of Novi Sad survived exactly 3.2%. I'm asking you -- how? Because we're a powerful city, because we're a strong city, we could've done without your 3.2%; we would've survived without it. That's why it's so important to keep going through all this. In the second term of my internship, I gave my hands to the workers of the Bridge and congratulated them for making the Varadin Bridge, although we were for the project of the Academy of Heidin. We haven't made a difference, and we won't make a difference when it comes to these things. Gentlemen, we are essentially at the beginning of the decentralisation process. One who thinks it is possible now to pass the law on local self-government as a final solution and definitely correcting the processisation that lasted for decades in Serbia, I think it is quite unrealistic, not to be offensive and to say naive. Just as centralised was a process, decentralisation must be a process. This is step one. Someone may not be brave, someone may not be determined enough, legally consistent, but let's take that first step, and then, through specific legal projects, through the capital law, through the law on cities, through the law on municipal activities, we make all those changes and the modality of these changes that we normally advocate and that will mean even stronger decentralisation. Thank you for the attention you've listened to me with.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-06-0.u17461	This was the last registered speaker. Does one of the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, come forward for a word, although it is mostly used? Nobody. ) I am concluding the principle of shock. I put the draft law on local self-government in principle. For 138, against 60, abstention one, three of 202 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted most of the votes the draft law on local self-government in principle. Since we've worked hard and hard today, I'm setting a break, because there are 25 minutes left to end and we'll continue work tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 157 MPs attend today's session. Please, in order to determine the quorum, insert identification cards into MPs. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I would like to inform you that they are prevented from attending the following MPs: Rodoljub Šabić, Dragan Jočić, Vladimir Dobrosavljević, Dragan Šormaz, Slobodan Pavlovic, Vlasimir Budimović, Kermeci Karolj, Dusan Budišin, Biači Anton, Ratimir Svirčević, Milos Lučić, Zoran Bošković, Juhas Atila, Dragas Binić, Radosav Savatijev, Dragan Marković, Borislav Pelevic, Dragan Sutanovac, Goran Vesić, Nenad Bogdanović, Milena Milosevic, Milan Ernjaković and Nada Kolundžija (before noon) Stanko Kovacevic and Siniša Mitrović, ( this afternoon) Vlatko Sekulović. The delay was announced by Vukosav Tomaševic and Gjorge Cukvas. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. Also, in accordance with Articles 83 and 84. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that I also invited representatives of the National Movement "Resist", as well as representatives of the Association of Families of Kidnapped and Missing Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija, as well as representatives of the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities of Yugoslavia on the third item of the agenda. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Local Self-Government (single) Since we accepted the Bill of Law at yesterday's session in principle, I am opening a review of the proposal for a Law on Local Self-Government in Details. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zeljo Huric.
