ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24112	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the Third Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, the session is attended by 183 MPs and I ask you to insert identification cards into your MPs to determine the quorum. I find that the application of the electronic system has established that we have a quorum and that 192 MPs are present. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Stanko Kovacevic, Neda Arnerić, Miodrag Jaćimović, Borisvoje Drakulović, Slobodan Pavlovic, Radoslav Vesenović, Višnja Nežić and Branko Pavlovic. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. Also, according to members 83 and 84. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that I invited representatives of the Centre for Free Elections and Democracy, representatives of the National Movement "Resist", the National Democratic Institute, the Association of University Professors and teachers of Serbia USAID. I welcome the guests present. You were presented the minutes of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002, held on 12 November 2002. As more than 126 MPs attend today's session, in particular 200 MPs, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from the previous session. I would like to inform you that the review in the Management Board's work department found that none of the Members of the People's Committee delivered in writing an objection to the minutes of the previous session and I am voting on the minutes of the Second Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002, held on 12 November 2002. For 146, no one with abstention voted 58 out of 204 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the minutes from the previous session. Reporting according to the Rules of Procedure, has been said by MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24113	On behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I call on the President of the National Assembly to apply the provisions of paragraphs 109 and 104. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and expressed a measure of distance from the session of the People's MP who yesterday physically opposed the SPS MP. Yesterday, at the meeting of the Administrative Committee, which was held on a proposal from the SPS parliamentary group, and at the request of the National Assembly President, Ms. Micicic, a serious incident occurred during the session, which must be properly punished. Namely, during the session of the Administrative Committee, the MP of this assembly, Aleksandar Stefanovic, first moved from one end of the hall to the other and physically confronted SPS MP Rajko Baralic; MPs at the time prevented a direct conflict. At the request of the chairman of the Administrative Board, Mr Ristic, Rajko Baralic set out of the Assembly. As he passed MP Stefanovic, MP Stefanovic physically attacked MP Baralic. First he hit him and then pushed him away. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia must punish this, it must apply an appropriate measure. It is obvious that the intention to put in another plan what the Administrative Committee yesterday did not want to discuss, although the president of the National Assembly asked him to do so, which is the fact of stealing the five parliamentary mandates of the SPS. I must conclude that the mentioned MEP Stefanovic in the media last night said that this fight and this beating were to begin on October 6th, saying that it was a single scenario and that it was an integral part of the torture, both physically and legally, and each other, being conducted according to the SPS. I believe that the National Assembly must give proper punishment and thus show that it does not stand behind such peoples' MPs. Because otherwise, this gets the character of what we Socialists keep saying is that it's a deliberate DOS campaign to destroy the SPS and individuals of punishment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24114	Mr. Obradovic, there is no breach of article 109. The Rules of Procedure, to which you have called, which states that the provisions of this Rules of Procedure apply at the sitting shall also apply to meetings of the Committees and other working bodies of the National Assembly. This is just saying that the chairman of the board is authorised to apply the Rules of Procedure and to impose sanctions on the Rules of Procedure during the Committee's session. There's no discussion about this, so there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. If you are not satisfied with the answer, the Administrative Board will decide within 24 hours on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24115	Dear Mrs. Micic, you have injured Article 104(2). The Rules of Procedure, which states: "The measure of distance from the sitting can be expressed to the MP and without measures previously spoken, in the case of a physical attack, or another similar procedure, which endangers the physical or moral integrity of the participants of the session, in the building of the National Assembly". So he doesn't have to. Of course, he can appreciate what's up there -- water baths or kicks, of course. It's now a matter of the president of the National Assembly to appreciate. But you can't say that you can't tell by the Rules of Procedure. You can say, by the Rules of Procedure, a measure of distance for every incident in the National Assembly building, from the entrance to the roof, but you now appreciate - does what happened yesterday deserve the punishment of disfellowshipping from the session? If you think he doesn't deserve it, then make sure he can be a terribly uncomfortable precedent. You can't turn someone off for the same case tomorrow, and you can't turn it off today. And the question arises -- what criteria do you apply, are these objective criteria, which apply to all MPs, or do you adapt those criteria depending on which political party the MP belongs.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24116	President of the Assembly, on the basis of Article 109. Rules of Procedure, he appreciates that he was in charge of a session and of giving all the sanctions in this case to the chairman of the Committee. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Zarko Obradovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24117	Dear fellow Members of the People, in accordance with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, I remain in Article 96(6) on the claim that the Rules of Procedure have been injured and I consider it a shame not to apply the measure of distance from the Assembly. Yesterday in public, there was a real fuss over a football coach's statement directed against a sports journalist, and here an MP fights, and the assembly acts like nothing happened. It's very bad for the Assembly and it shows that part of it is, absolutely, a broader scenario. I call on the President of the National Assembly to call on the Administrative Board in accordance with Article 96(6) of the Rules of Procedure and to establish a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The apostle must step aside for what he has done. We, MPs of the SPS, in such conditions, when the Prime Minister says that the National Assembly will not accept the views of individual parliamentary groups, as ours for the release of President Milosevic, or when our MPs are fighting, and the Assembly is not responding, and you expect normal working conditions to be created, we cannot work on such conditions and the SPS parliamentary group will leave the meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24118	Mr. Obradovic, I have already called on the Administrative Board to discuss the violations of the Rules of Procedure that you have advertised within 24 hours. We're continuing our work. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. (SPS MPs are leaving the hall. ) Before setting out the agenda for the session, in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we need to decide on proposals for putting on the agenda of acts in accordance with the urgent procedure and on proposals for amendments and additions to the proposed agenda of the session. The president of the DOS parliamentary group, Mr Cedomir Jovanovic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24119	Mrs. Micic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the beginning of today's work, we owe an apology to all Serbian citizens who have suffered because of our political inability to find within parliament the necessary path that would allow us to work uninterruptedly. Given just the time lost, the DOS parliamentary group, in accordance with Article 87. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly and in line with the agreement reached with the proposing of the disputed agenda point, that is the last item of the agenda ahead of you, which is the result of an initiative signed by 180.000 citizens of Serbia, will ask Mr Batic and his party, who is a member of our parliamentary club, to withdraw this proposal; but I am obliged to introduce you to the political agreement reached within our coalition, an agreement that absolutely safeguards the credibility of parliament and the decisions that parliament makes, on the other hand, respects both the Constitution and the rights of citizens of this country. The idea of a referendum initiative is an idea presented in Article 81 of the still valid Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the still applicable Law on referendums and the People's Initiative. These are the rights given to citizens of this country in situations where political parties or other actors in political life do not want or cannot launch a particular political initiative to get answers to the political issues they have the right to seek. With that in mind, we find it completely irresponsible and unacceptable to ignore an initiative supported by 180,000 people. Of course, we are aware of the political consequences that would accompany the adoption of the debate and the possible vote on such a item of the agenda, because it would effectively devalue all of our serious efforts to constitutionally define the union of Serbia-Montenegro. In view of these two intentions and the clear consequences that can be followed by the vote of one, or another decision, we have tried to find a compromise solution which, on the one hand, we do not show disrespect for citizens, nor do we question their rights confirmed by the Constitution and the Law on Referendum and the People's Initiative, and on the other hand we do not dispute ourselves as a parliament which, by adopting the Belgrade Agreement and definitely underlines a political project that cannot be devalued or challenged by a referendum initiative, which would be done if, for example, at this moment, the Republic Parliament discussed it or if, on the basis of a decision by the Republic Parliament, a further decision on the calling of referendums in Serbia. I think that the issues that are open to this initiative are serious, that we must provide reasoned and serious answers to them, because, unless Parliament does something like that, I am asking you which institution and which individuals will make decisions for us. Serbia's assembly has no reason to be afraid of it. We, as a member of the DOS, have very clear political views. We consider the December-month statement on this matter a kind of referendum, with which, of course, we cannot challenge any right within our coalition or society that is contrary to this one. So we appeal to the promoter, Mr Batic, and his party to withdraw from the agenda today's session a proposal for a referendum debate. In this way we show respect for citizens who are thinking about it, who are acting politically, but on the other hand we respect reality, because at this moment our colleagues in the Federal Parliament are dealing with a project of constitutional definition, which should not be made more difficult. Thank you. (The People's Messenger Seselj asks for a word in the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24120	Here you go, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24121	Mrs. Micic, your intentions and intentions of Cedomir Jovanovic may be the best intentions, but you and Cedomir Jovanovic are obliged to strictly respect the Rules of Procedure. (Kedomir Jovanovic, from the post: We did not agree. To respect the Rules of Procedure? You didn't make a deal? If you have not agreed to respect the Rules of Procedure, then it is high time to agree, Mr Jovanovic, and I warn you that you have already violated Article 86(2). The Rules of Procedure, which states: "Proposals to extend the agenda to acts which, under the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, have met the conditions to be included in the agenda, shall be submitted no later than three days before the date specified for the meeting of the National Assembly, and proposals relating to elections, appointments, resolutions and termination of functions, the withdrawal of certain points from the proposed agenda; the merger of the debate and the modification of the order of points shall be delivered no later than 24 hours before the start of a session of the National Assembly". So, you're too late with that. You can't do this today. It may be if you persuaded Vladan Batic to withdraw, so he can withdraw himself, give up his ideologies and resort to that ideology of yours. That might. But if you now, despite the rules of the Rules of Procedure, do so instead of Batic, it cannot be legally done. He can do it against the law. And it would be very interesting for us to have a debate about this Batic initiative, to tell you the truth. Because he's in your government and in your coalition. Your coalition can't have two diametrically opposite attitudes on the fundamental state issue. So what's yours in common, if you're different by what's most important, let's consider that too. But, of course, now I'm not opening a debate on essential issues. I'm just opening a debate on formal, procedural issues, and I'm intervened that there wouldn't be another breach of the Rules of Procedure that is extremely clear. And you can break it, it wouldn't be your first time.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24122	There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure, no provision of 86. The Rules of Procedure, because MP Cedomir Jovanovic did not withdraw the proposal, but urged the motioner to do so in accordance with Article 139. The Rules of Procedure, which says, "The legislator has the right to withdraw the bill until the finalisation of the draft law at the National Assembly session." So it wasn't about retreating at all, or any procedural failure, Mr. Seselj. Please, a representative of the motion to call a republican referendum in order to declare citizens on the issue of state independence, Mr Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24123	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honored guests, I do not appear here as president of the Democratic Party of Serbia, nor as a member of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but rather as a first-signed citizen - who is proposing an initiative to call a referendum for independent Serbia. The fact is, for the sake of truth, that the organizer of the initiative is the Democratic Christian Party of Serbia. What surprises me is what was heard last night through the media -- that some agreement by the heads of parliament clubs reached an agreement that the eighth item in the proposed agenda was "a statement on the motion to call a referendum"; off the agenda, kicked off the agenda, kicked out of the agenda, depending on how the media transmitted it. Madam President, I don't know who he has agreed with or who has the authority to deal with it. Did you agree, not with 184,000, but with 400,000 citizens who signed this initiative? They're the only ones you could make a deal with. Well, if they're agreeable, or if you'd like to call me as the first signed one to answer whether I'm with the proposal that this item of the agenda be downloaded in agreement. This way, I don't know who he was agreeing with so much before the withdrawal of one item of the agenda from the proposed agenda on a proposal from the MPs, a group of MPs, a group of MPs, 24 hours before the meeting, must be declared by parliament. Only by declaring parliament can that point be removed from the agenda. It's about form. We also learned through the media that several Social Democratic Party MPs submitted the written proposal to withdraw this item of the agenda. If that's true, then there's a formal legal basis for this point to be removed from the agenda. I've heard of arguments as to why it's proposed. It's said, at least those official arguments, that it's not time to discuss it now. Who is it that determines the time? When is the right time for Serbia to plead its statehood? Who is this timer for such an initiative? As long as Serbia should wait for the Constitutional Commission, which is due under the Belgrade Agreement to be called, to end June, and now is November. It does not appear that this Constitutional Commission, whose members cannot cross the street alone, brings such a serious document as the Constitutional Charter. But, well, we have also heard the argument that, allegedly, the initiative is not in line with the Law on Referendum and the People's Initiative, that certain deadlines are foreseen in accordance with the provisions of the law. I have to tell these legal dilettantes that they need to distinguish between these two institutes, the referendum and the people's initiative. The law itself clearly distinguishes this if it is interpreted telelogically, hence, targeted, Semantic, i.e. conceptually, etomiologically, or linguistically, but it is sufficient to interpret grammatically and logically. They can also read from time to time Slobodan Jovanovic, who makes a clear distinction between the referendum and the people's initiative. Next, gentlemen, this is the highest expression of national sovereignty, demand, initiative to call a referendum. A referendum was held in Ireland the other day, where the citizens of Ireland declared whether they agreed to expand the European Union from 15 to 25 members since 2004. Therefore, the European Union has declared itself to be the fate of other countries and other peoples. Citizens of this country are not allowed to declare their country and its fate. The truth is, having followed this proposal, the DOS presidency, at its last session, has given the Constitutional Commission time to make the famous text of the Constitutional Charter by the end of November. I am a skeptic and I argue, and we will see more, that the Constitutional Commission in its composition will never agree with the text of the Constitutional Charter, and every lost day for Serbia is one lost year. So, tax laws are on the agenda predicting tax reliefs for Serbian citizens. I never want to bother that this important law is passed and that the agenda fails again. I remind you, the taxpayers of Serbia are hostages not of the republic's government and not of tax laws at the level of the Republic of Serbia, but of tax obligations, excise duties, customs duties, federal-level taxes. They have set aside over a billion euros for a country of no use, but only damages, this year, and someone wants these types of hostages to continue to be made from citizens of Serbia. So, since there is a formal initiative and since there is such a decision by the DOS presidency, I can only accept, on behalf of 400,000 signatories of the initiative, that the debate on this subject, as proposed by the Social Democratic Party MPs, be postponed for the time after December 1st, to see if this prominent Constitutional Commission will make any document, which I do not believe. Whether it is discussed today, whether the point is withdrawn from the agenda, whether when parliament is on the agenda to declare against the referendum's calling, Serbia will be sovereign, independent and independent, not because the Democratic Christian Party of Serbia wants it, but because its citizens want it and because it is its only right path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24124	Mr. Batic, may I say that you have withdrawn this item on the agenda, on behalf of 184,000? (Vladan Batic, from the post: Not my proposal, but the Social Democratic Party, which I can agree with. All right. So you're staying on the proposal. We'll vote on the proposal. According to the Rules of Procedure? Here's a word from National MP Natasa Milojevic, president of the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24125	Mrs. Micic, I thank you, respected presidency, respected colleagues, Mr. Vladan Batic, of course, gave me the opportunity to replicate in his presentation. I'll just say a few things. A proposal by the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, i.e. on the Social Democratic Party's proposal, will be voted on by the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, amendments and amendments to the agenda will be voted on and the Assembly will declare this. A few things are not too bad to say, and that is: first, the initiative, back in the last session, that the 8th point is removed from the agenda is an absolutely well-intentioned initiative that shows understanding of the Constitution and that shows understanding of the people's initiative. In fact, more than 180,000 signatories seek a referendum and submit an initiative on a referendum on Serbia's independence. We respect that. Of course, the Social Democrats would not ignore the fact that 180,000 citizens want to make a statement and want to discuss it in the Assembly. Before that, we consider that the debate on the future of the common state and the adoption of a constitutional charter is a priority. We believe that not only are the requests of the European Union, which are so loud and so directly addressed to the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the entire community, that we finally agree on the prospect and future of the common state, to happen in November. We don't think it's time for that reason, not because there's some counter or timer that's gonna talk when it's time to discuss people's will. It's politically responsible to have one job done. It is politically responsible that what we have agreed as a national agreement, which is to be a member of the Council of Europe, and to be fulfilled. It is politically responsible to discuss amendments and amendments to tax laws, because it is during that time. It is politically responsible that we go to meet with the relief proposed by the Ministry of Finance and it is politically responsible to make you easier and accept. One doesn't go with the other, it doesn't work. We agree that this initiative is being discussed during the regular session of the Assembly. We agree that it is a constitutional obligation and that it falls under the referendum law. We agree that it may be at one of the meetings of the regular session, and we agree that the Assembly will discuss it later. Let's get to the point and let's finally discuss from points 1 to 7 of the tax laws, so that we finally cheer up the citizens of Serbia, our voters, once a real skill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24126	Before we decide on this motion to withdraw the 8th point, we have one proposal to consider the urgent procedure. A group of 13 MPs from the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group proposed that the National Assembly, by emergency procedure, make a decision obliging the Government of the Republic of Serbia to formally request that, in co-operation with the Government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, the end of the procedure before The Hague tribunal be brought against former Yugoslav President Slobodan Milosevic in order to facilitate his adequate treatment, i.e. providing adequate medical care in the country; the proposal was submitted to the National Assembly on 11 November 2002. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 23, against 112, a abstentioned one, did not vote 61, a total of 197 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. We move on to proposals for withdrawing certain points from the agenda of the session. National MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic and National MPs Natasa Milojevic, Olgica Kircanski, Slavica Tatomir and Miroslav Christodulo have tabled similar proposals to withdraw the 8th point session agenda - a motion for a decision to call a republican referendum to state citizens on the issue of state independence of the Republic of Serbia, which has brought more than 100,000 voters to the National Assembly on 26 July 2002. I ask the MPs to determine the quorum before the vote. I'm guessing we have a quorum. The session is attended by 184 MPs. I'm putting the motion to withdraw the 8th item of the agenda. For 136, against 19, with five abstentions, he did not vote 31, a total of 191 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the motion to withdraw the 8th item of the agenda. National MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic suggested that the agenda be extended to a new point -- a proposal to supplement the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted to the National Assembly by a group of 71 MPs, on 14 February 2002. Does the People's Parliament want a word? The word has a folk MP, Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24127	On the basis of point 86 of our Rules of Procedure, I asked for the extension of today's session, putting on the agenda of the proposal submitted to our assembly on 14 February. The proposal is for a new committee, a gender equality committee, to be formed in the Serbian Parliament. But later, after putting the agenda on the table, in some consultations with my colleagues, I learned that there are four other initiatives to change the Rules of Procedure. We agreed to withdraw the proposal for the agenda, but simply say that we expect this item to be at the next meeting of the Assembly on the agenda. If not, of course, we'll ask for an extension of the agenda. So I'm withdrawing my proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24128	I thank the People's MPs and I find that MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic has withdrawn a proposal to expand the agenda. National MP Ivan Andric, based on members 86 and 136. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that a joint principled search be carried out on draft laws under points 2 to 7 of the proposed agenda. I would like to put to the vote a proposal to carry out a joint principled search from point 2 to point 7. For 151 against 31, the abstentioned were not voted seven, a total of 189 MPs. I find that most votes have accepted the proposal to carry out a joint principle search at points 2 to 7. Since we have agreed on an emergency procedure proposal and proposals for amendments and additions to the proposed agenda, I would like to ask the Members of Parliament to make a statement on the agenda of the session in general. I'm putting on a vote on a draft agenda in general. For 153 against 30, the abstentions were not voted by six, a total of 189 MPs. I find that the National Assembly by majority has established the agenda of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: the proposal for a Law on the Tax Procedure and the Tax Administration has been passed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Cedomir Jovanovic, together Dragan Marković, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukić and Adam Urošević, together Dragan Jovanovic, Rajko Baralić, Jovan Todorovic, Nebojša Jović, Slobodan Tomović and Hranislav Perić, together Dragan Todorovic, Jovan Todorovic, Ljubomir Mucic, Hranislav Perić and Milan Janković, together Radojko Petrić, Ljubomir Mucic, Rajko Baralić, Jovan Todorovic, Nebojša Jović, Joca Arsić, Rade Bajic, Dusan Cvetković, Hranislav Perić and Miomir Ilic, together Rajko Baralić, Ljubomir Mucic, Nebojsa Jović, Živodarka Dacin, Radojko Petrić, Hranislav Perić and Milan Janković, Hranislav Janković, Žalovar Žaljuljar Žar Žalić, Mirović, Mirović, Mirović, Mirović, Miržaldić, Mirović, Mirović, Mirović, Ljubić, Ljubić. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a total time of debate in the principle of parliamentary groups for five hours, and that the time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I'm asking the presidents of the parliamentary groups to send me a list of applications for a word. In accordance with Article 136(1) of the Treaty, I'm opening my rules of procedure. Does the motionary's representative, Finance Minister Mr Bozidar Djelic, want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24129	Mrs. Micic, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, there is a tax package in front of you today. It represents the second stage of our tax reform to count three key steps. Given the agenda, I will say just a few words about the whole package and immediately move to the first item of the agenda - Tax Procedure and Tax Administration Act. Let's remember, last April, there was this first step in this tax reform, when you adopted a whole series of material laws that united matter that was scattered with numerous texts, laws, regulations, decisions. There was a lot of chaos, a lot of fiscal forms that simply no one could see in general anymore. The first thing that happened is that we simplified the system, went back to several key tax forms, and thus significantly brought our tax system closer to the systems of countries that are in our environment and the countries of the European Union. Of course, if we're looking at whether that first step worked or not, we have to ask the citizens first. Taxes always hurt, especially in poverty and in a difficult economic situation, where today is our country. So there aren't any triumphal evaluations to be made here. We simply need to ask three key questions about this first step under the circumstances. Is tax fairer today? The answer is, I think, yes, because no one can enter my office today and come out with a tax advantage. It used to be possible. Some companies, some sectors were able to get much less tax obligations, thus the burden was falling to a smaller and smaller number of taxpayers, and so we came to something that was not fair at all. The other thing was, is the system more transparent today? The answer is yes; because simply, if someone wants to change anything, they have to go through this home, through this congregation. Third thing, I can say that this is often lost from sight, these connected courts between, on the one hand, the tax system and on the other hand public finances or budgets that need to settle some obligations and some legally regulated rights, did this tax system justify trust for now? The answer is yes. This is already the second budget that we carry out without fractures, the second year in a row -- pensions are paid, salaries for those who live on the budget, milk premiums, wheat buyout, necessary subsidies, the structure of our businesses, in one word, all that is drawn in the budget is financed. There'll be more stories about it when we get to the budget in the middle of next month, I'm sure. I want to tell you that our predictions now show that we will have, as we did last year, the same thing we predicted. So this tax system of ours is now much more stable and fulfilling its obligations. Thanks to him, those 217 billion dinars of expenditure will be financed. Given that inflation will be some percentage less this year than predicted, some 16% instead of 20%, that means that in real terms our tax system has given something more. Is it because we taxed more, did we introduce new taxes? No, on the contrary. What happened after that first initial step, that's that we reduced or abolished some taxes on three occasions. Often this flossula is present in our public opinion; it is - reduce rates, the base will expand and thus the tax will be more painless, people will pay it and it will make it better for everyone. There's truth to that. However, we must do so in a responsible way. We can't deprive those who live on the budget and who expect something from him. This newfound security can't be disturbed just like that. That's why we did it in three steps. Let me remind you, on the 1st of June of last year, by uniting various untaxed elements of profit and a realistic reduction of about 12% of the contribution rate for compulsory social security, we reduced the wage charge by so much, realistically, from about 100-105 dinars to 100 dinars net, we went down to 71.9. It's not all a real reduction, it's about 10 to 12% a real reduction. This enabled many of our companies to raise wages. The second step took place in December of last year, when you voted to abolish sales taxes on numerous goods, fruits and vegetables, eggs, meat, drugs from positive lists, communals. In this way, prices of these products fell by about 16.7% in January. We must always follow it closely, because it is a bad habit with us, quasicartel behavior is still very present with us, that manufacturers and traders do not use this new space to raise their margins and prices. That's why I think we're going to come to this in the middle of this week, and this proposed tax exemption is not in itself a cure, it has to be very closely monitored, and control has to be consistent, to cross it into lower prices for our consumers. The last thing, which is the third step after only the first wave, was the elimination of taxes on financial transactions, on giving and repaying loans, on a lot of things and the reduction in the aggregate in the weighted amount by 1/3 of taxes on financial transactions on orders. This cost of capital for our entrepreneurs, for our citizens, for our farmers, that price of capital that was 7% to 8% at last January's monthly level, has now fallen to still higher but much more acceptable 1.5% to 2%. To sum up; last April the first tax package; a much better tax site that justified expectations. After that, an American economist named Laffer, who didn't make it up at all, but I'd say he drew well on one napkin, so they all realized: the idea is to make the rates as acceptable as possible at a given moment for the citizens, so the base is as wide as possible; we did it three times. So we will continue to work every time space is found, but in a responsible way, not at any time endangering the newly created balances of our public finances. Today you have a package, that second step of tax reform. You've got one piece of information. I just want to say that in May this year we started, I don't like that word much, one campaign. You see, there's that cup, you've seen those T-shirts. It's the least important thing. It was just one occasion to restart the debate for this second step. We were in 15 Serbian cities to meet both trade unions, citizens, entrepreneurs, people from social and private companies, to see what it is that can be improved in our tax system. Today, this ends, and that's how this circle is circled, and it's where it has to be discussed, and it's in this esteemed home. We have four key elements in this tax package. Our goal is simple, which is for Serbia's tax system to be the most attractive in all transition countries. It's not just a steam, it's a hard work through the discussion we had on the ground with tax administration professionals, with numerous domestic and foreign experts. We wanted, objectively, when we look impartially at our tax system, that even those who do not know enough about our circumstances conclude that it is approaching that goal, which is that it is to be the most favourable, most attractive and efficient in all transition countries. We have four elements in that tax package. The first is that as a government, we will suggest that you adopt a number of tax exemptions. I'm not talking about it today. I just want to say that the best social policy is the one that happens on the bulky side of the budget. Tax exemptions are only there at the moment when the state still doesn't have a system according to which it can be precise enough to target those who really need help. I mean, at a given moment, for everything that's a non-elastic part of what's so-called. consumer baskets, things without which you can't, that it's justified to get rid of sales taxes at this point. So we expect at what is proposed today, there are some amendments, some of us have accepted, there will be some more discussion, that this price will fall by about 17%, as much as by the end of next week. The second element, which I can say, is the heart of this second tax wave and tax reform, these are significant incentives for our economy -- reducing our rates to the lowest level across Europe, a major incentive for employment and investment. We'll talk about it a lot more later. The third thing is to curb the gray economy. Simply, at the moment our economy is recording the growth of industrial production, you saw that it is projected by about 2% to 3%, and the real growth of our gross national income will be 4%; the same thing, with slightly less inflation than anticipated. It's the right moment, when we stabilized this system, to propose a number of incentives for what is crucial for all of us, which is to create new jobs and investments, so that our businesses are as competitive as possible. We know that after 10 to 15 years and very little investment there is not a single company where new equipment is not very necessary for them to be competitive and to be able to export. As the basis of all these things, we have an effective tax administration and tax procedure. Let me now move on to what's the first item of the agenda, and that's this one, I'd say, really systemically, the law that's before you today. The Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration is a text we've been working on for about a year. He should become a sacred letter to our taxpayers and our tax collectors. What was done last year, which is the unification of tax material laws, and in several recognizable material laws and forms, this law should regulate what is the procedural part and the organisational part of tax matter. I would just like to give a few examples of why such a law is necessary and beyond what Serbia needs today, which is why; we have worked very hard in the last few days to reach a consensus in this house, that the larger the number of parliamentary groups, and I hope that everything will support this law, because he seems to me, there is little that is really controversial. I can tell you that 7,000 women and people in the IRS, and as many of them in the PDO and a large number of our taxpayers, are waiting to see how much support this text is in this home. And the wider the support of this text, the more it seems to me, the fairer and better implemented this law next year, and that is very necessary for all of us. What would I like to say about this law? Let me start with a few examples of why he's necessary. Personally, I couldn't believe that since World War II, none of our citizens are in the regular process, I repeat by regular procedure, checked from a tax point of view. Did that person pay taxes or not? One person in Serbia after World War II had no tax control. Yes, there is a legal origin of property, post-revolutionary, which had a lot of problems. We are the only country in Europe where we do not have a regular physical check and that is something that this law should remove, and it is no wonder why many of our citizens, entrepreneurs say - yes, I want to pay taxes, thus showing that I am a full member of this society, but how it is possible that there are people in my town who are very clearly avoiding tax payments and who have never been controlled. Dear Members of the People, ladies and gentlemen, this law will finally remove this abnormal situation and this abnormal phenomenon in our country. Another example, if we look at another example, is that in our legislation today it is not possible to tax illegally obtained income, believe it or not. And it happened to me, and to the IRS, that some people who apparently earned in an illegal zone, with a smile, said, yes, but you can't tell me anything by law anyway, and they were right. Simply, our legal provisions at this point only look at what goes over the bill, what goes through the paper, and that's where he tries to figure out what's going on. So the fact is, factfulness, as lawyers like to say, was nothing respected, and it was just amazing. And no wonder some who worked against the law and against the interests of society and themselves, and that is another matter, were in a privileged position. This law will remove, if you vote it, and that problem. The third example, if you look at just the functioning of our tax legislation, we see that since World War II, we are no longer talking about natural persons, but about responsible persons and legal persons in companies, and no one has been more seriously threatened by tax evasion. And of course, it is difficult to expect that the necessary fiscal discipline, which will allow us to continue to expand that base, continue to reduce those tax rates, unless there is a clear penalty. And of course, if we look at those penalties, they are already in our tax laws today something more firm than they are in some other laws, but they certainly weren't high enough, nor serious enough for those who have made tax evasion that they decide when they come and when they start to weigh: to pay taxes or to have some risk if someone catches me not paying; what is the penalty; and of course, unfortunately, that balance was not in favour of the law, for the benefit of an orderly society. It's something I'd like, as a key philosophy of this law, to stay with us. He proposes to our people and our citizens, our entrepreneurs, our businesses a new tax balance, where on the one hand we propose some of the lowest rates in Europe, but at the same time we propose one procedural law that will allow these benefits not to be misused, where we will have something that will finally be good enough, legal provisions that will allow one deeply reformed tax system to enforce the law in the same archaic interest of all our citizens. I would also like to say that I should point out several key points in this law that will allow, if you vote, for Serbia to finally get that procedural law and the new tax administration that is so necessary. I have several elements, and I would like to single out a few elements that have been the subject of debate, and sometimes disputes on committees and in some of the contacts that we have had. The first question was, why is there even one procedural tax law; don't we have one law on one general procedure, is that not enough? The answer, it's decadent - no. I can say that what is very important here is that it is in the interest of our citizens that this tax procedural right be united in one place. I couldn't believe it, let it be the last example I'm going to use here, when one businessman brought me two tax settlements in the same case, from the same tax center of Nis, where one team from Nis, and the other from Leskovec, was controlling in the space of two to three weeks and giving different solutions to the same case. Today, ladies and gentlemen, tax laws are not implemented in the same way in our territory; not only did we have, while that process was scattered according to various material tax laws, a different procedure in tax forms, which in itself was absurd, but we had because it was not clear enough what the procedure was, the pattern of application in the same tax form, depending on which RJUP's regional unit is a word or depending on how they interpreted the law. One of these procedural laws that clearly indicates and unites that matter in one place, be very important to finally make what must be the main member of the law happen, which is that it is the same for everyone, at every point in our territory at any moment. So that's why one of these procedural laws is so necessary. The second element I would like to point out is that we do not only what a taxpayer is obliged to do, but also his rights and they are in line with OECD standards. Many things have also been tarnished and about our conditions, but to tell you as finance minister: I am tired of getting letters from our citizens, our businessmen telling me about a wall called RJUP, where they can't get to their data, where they can't know how far their case has arrived, they can't know who decides, what way they feel they're in some situation best described by Kafka; one administration where they don't know how to get in, who decides and what will eventually come out of it. And for that reason, in order to regulate some rights, besides all obligations, are determined here; of course, a real test if you vote this law will be in what way it will be applied, but you can see that taxpayers are entitled to all information concerning him, as well as what is not less important and which is often very little, I would say deeply, understood in our country, which is that the taxpayer has the right to privacy. Tax obligations and financial personal matter are merely the subject of a given citizen or a given legal person. No one can roll and get any information that doesn't concern him and that's one key element of democracy. Of course, on the other hand, if there is a judicial decision and a trial, where it is proved that there is a tax evasion, at that point it must be very public and to know who has hidden the tax, which amount and what are the sanctions that this natural or legal person should now bear. That's why there were a lot of questions - is this law breaking any civil rights? I say - on the contrary, this law is finally in real life in many ways that will advance what is a key civil rights citizen of our country, which is that the administration, however empowered it is to drag its hand into his pocket, must do so by law, in a well-founded way and where some of our citizens' rights are guaranteed by law in this process. The third element, and we were just talking about it, is finally the principle of effectiveness; that our taxpayers don't come into the situation to look at what's least important, some books that don't actually have a slight relationship with life, some documents that don't have a single clue to what's really going on in the given company and, finally, have a legitimate and orderly way of looking at the real situation of the taxpayer and where the tax liability is being monitored according to its essence, and not some legal actions that should ensure that it is disqualified and that there is tax exemption or reduction of the rate. The fourth element is finally, after ten years, huge holes and delays in the reform of our tax administration; we have the unification of what should never have been divided, which is the previous control of the PDO, the sealing ritual every 15 days, for those who pay salaries twice a month; something that should be controlled, which is largely blind, routine, did not enter the core and which, behold, for those who discovered this system, did not give the slightest element to our funds, or to the tax administration, that it could act in that control that would come later; so that we had a total breakdown, and I would say, absolute separation from something that should in no way be separate. Simultaneously, since 1 January of next year, we will have several very important things and this law is the cornerstone of these major organizational changes. First, the PDO is abolished and payment traffic passes to business banks. This reform that has been delayed for ten years is finally being implemented, but at the same time it means that certain functions that were state-owned in the PDO are activated; it means what is income control, especially in what is a tax deduction: salary tax and contributions to compulsory social security, which is the backbone of our public finances. When you take these two forms, they represent about two-thirds of everything that's being collected by our citizens. So we're not talking about anything harmless here, we're talking about key things. Control needs to cross over and will move to the tax administration, and that tax administration needs to exercise much more precise control. Let me give you another example - this is that on October 1st we introduced a centre for large taxpayers in Belgrade, and it gives a much better service to our taxpayers, but at the same time a small payroll is finally seen. And questions for some of our most successful companies -- how is it possible for your leading people to, as the most successful firm, allegedly pay a salary of 14,000 dinars net in paper? It's something the PDO didn't control at all, it's reality, and it doesn't have to celebrate what was actually some routine control. Finally, one tax administration will ask the right questions. On the other hand, a tax identification number is introduced. He's already been assigned to legal entities that pay salaries. The process has already been implemented enormously and next year our citizens will receive their unique tax identification number, which will be their basis for discussion with the tax administration; and in this way, on the one hand, they will better exercise their rights, but it will also be easier to exercise control. And finally, this administration of ours is not going to transfer to our citizens the entire burden of carrying paper, proof of some rights, but will finally begin to collect in well-organized databases, where the root will be for all of that tax identification number -- what is paid, which is the right in this way created, so that we finally get out of that absurd, which is Kafka and the 19th century, that for the retirement of one person one inspector from the PIO fund must be separated from to go and dig into every company -- where that paper, 20-30 years ago, where something is proven to be paid, or, is asked from our students to bring a payment to the PIO fund to see if they can be written anywhere. It's time for our country to become a state, to have some information about our citizens, at least to harass them, and most of all to make their lives easier. And believe me, with a tax administration like this arranged, it won't happen in a few months, but in two or three years, we'll finally have a situation where our taxpayers will get to one counter and where in one database, wherever on which point our territories are, they'll be able to know: what their obligations are, where their objects are, who decides what their rights are, when they have to pay; but also what their rights are, as long as they are, how many months to retire, how much they have to pay; finally, something that will look like a civilized state. That is why this law is of paramount importance, and I expect you to very broadly support it, because without it, we will not be able to go into what will be at least two to three years of deep reform, which will finally allow our citizens to see in their own country one service, and not just something that requires data from them; instead of the state itself supporting what is the record, which is necessary to implement some law and some rights. The fifth thing I'd like to mention, and there's been a lot of stories about it, it's cross-evaluation of the tax liability. And to be very clear, no witch hunt is being introduced, there is no retroactive effect of this law, in the way the tax administration should now ask all the people of our country, all the entrepreneurs, to choose to prove what they've done in the last ten years. This is neither necessary nor recommended, and in the end it is not feasible. But on the other hand, I can say, through countless contacts with our citizens, businesses, this "laxmus test" is put in place, as those who read Latin -- what about those people who live in my city, who obviously haven't paid a dime to the state for years, whose way of life has nothing to do with what's in the books; where is justice in this country; should those who are employed and who work under the law be those who pay for them? For this reason, here you are offered what has been successfully applied in some other countries, which is that next year is a year of recording and giving the chance to that vast majority of our entrepreneurs and citizens, who want to sleep peacefully, who want to settle their obligations to the state and to themselves, and future generations, to pay taxes and to be a full member of our society. Many of them for the last 10 or 15 years may not have paid until the end, but those were difficult times. And in this law you have given your hand to those people who want to get in line, who want to have, like our country, a new beginning. And, by June 30th, all citizens who have property in Serbia, but also abroad, and to mention, an account in the Cayman Islands, that this is qualified as property, as in Switzerland and Liechtenstein, and he must apply to the tax administration. It will be a registration base and it must be reported by all those who have more than 20 million dinars at the market value of that property, that they can then go one normal way to pay taxes and thus the increase in assets will be compared to their incomes. That way, finally, those who pay will be in a privileged position, and those who avoid the law will remain in the gray zone, but this time, the tax administration has the law, and the procedure, to follow them. And I often hear: the smugglers will escape, the smugglers and those drug traffickers, the weapons, they will escape, they will not be caught. Well, of course most people here are going to report their assets, of course, that a huge number of our people are going to start paying very moderate rates of our taxes; and then the tax administration is going to go to that much more limited list of people who don't want to go by law and who want to stay in the gray zone. It's a key task that the IRS will have. Not to go after those people who smuggled three buckets of oil or oil, but to those few hundred people who, apparently, will not use this way or if they use it in the future won't be able to explain what legal activity that makes these revenues possible. It seems to me that we have proposed one real balance between the economic future of our country, on the one hand, and one social justice on the other. Believe me, one of the key tasks for the tax administration will be just that - that next year, July 1, when these applications come to the tax administration, then choose to act on them; to see what are "huge fish" that simply won't get in line and see what is behind it and what can be done there. But this time, much better equipped with both law and procedure. The sixth thing I want to mention -- there were a lot of stories about whether this law violates some key civil rights by introducing an element of solidarity between taxpayers. In Article 103 alone, this solidarity is very limited. It concerns moving things, where the owner cannot be individually appointed, not where there is well-established property. The example works, the video recorder, the TV, we don't know who they belong to in the family, but as far as the car's concerned, we know that's not falling off. We must have a law that is applicable in Serbia. If we say that there is no solidarity, it is clear that the national sport of moving reality, the effectiveness of some property and some income to family members will continue. If we remove the elements of solidarity, then it's clear what's going to happen. Let us see what happens if there is no such provision and you will understand why it already exists in our legislation today; we have not introduced it by this law; and why we need it so much tomorrow, that's how we are. Perhaps in other circumstances, but this element and this solidarity are necessary for us at this moment in Serbia today. The last thing I would say is that we are introducing here some new elements concerning criminal offences, penalties and tax police, which is a special unit in the tax administration, which should give enough power to our tax administration to carry out what needs to be done, which is tax collection in the country of Serbia, in which half the tax goes into force day and day. That's our reality, out of two dinars one has to tax administration to "pull." We can't have a debate on one side, as if we're Denmark, where 99.6%, I've checked the figure, the tax goes in voluntarily, with Serbia where 50% is forced and it's clear that in one such situation, at least in the next few years, we have to have enough power, both in the process and in the tax administration itself, to charge that tax. That's why we introduced what was so lacking in the previous law and set of laws that edited this area, which is -- new criminal acts of tax evasion, where we didn't invent anything, but simply took the best taxes that exist in the countries in the environment, including Republika Srpska, which has had significant success in countering tax evasion in the last year. I want to thank Mrs. Bisic here who runs that tax administration, who has helped us with a lot of things in the making of this law. Not to say that it has helped us a lot to stop the phantom companies between Republika Srpska and the Republic of Serbia. Ask some people in the Bijeljina what's happened to them now. We have not only new crimes, but we have a procedure by which the tax administration is in a state, and there is a distinction with the police, with the MUP very clearly, to lead to some logical conclusion. I would point out that through a particular discussion, we have accepted amendments that take away the right to carry arms to the tax police; and, indeed, if someone should have a vision of what the tax police should look like, I would personally prefer that the profiles of people entering that tax police are such as to love computers, to be those who know "what bush lies a rabbit", which are not there to roll some guns, but to have their main weapon be knowledge and computer; because it is clear that today in the modern world, in tax control, the first thing that goes on is a hard-disk, not books, goes on a computer and there is what is parallel accounting, which is being carried out in many of our businesses. These are the profiles, and in that IRS, expect you to see a lot of IT guys. These are people who will be able to intimidate people with their own knowledge, not by showing some force, so it's perfectly acceptable that the law indicates they don't need a gun for it. We have a MUP and they'll have co-operation with their police colleagues, if tomorrow someone needs to be brought in or if something needs to be taken. I would therefore conclude and sum up, of the many laws I have had the honour of proposing on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia in this House, believe me - this law is one of the most important. Simply, it is a tax administration that is modern, which has a good law, where a processive thing is done in the right way and that will have the resources to carry out its tasks. It's a huge step, a civilization step, I'd say, for the state and for us. In that case, a huge responsibility falls upon the government, on my ministry, on the women and men who work there, and the vast majority of them are congratulating and just waiting for it to have the right tool in its hands to do its trade. This tax procedure law and the tax administration will allow for the same to be done as best as possible, with the transition, following the abolition of the PDO. It won't be easy in the first trimester. This is the experience of both Republika Srpska, Macedonia, Croatia and other countries where the SDK were present and where it is shown that this is not going so smoothly, but here we will have everything that is necessary to create new systematisation, new regulations, and that finally Serbia, at the end of next year, when we propose the last, third step of tax reform, has one administration that it can be proud of. This is the second step, the second package, and the third package next year will deal with value added tax and a lot of what we have in this law and this package is preparing to apply that law; and also synthetic taxation of citizens and, finally, when we look at all of this, in case this kind of approach is further working on expanding the tax base; and on the dissipating side, but we'll talk about it when we get to the budget, let's do a rationalization that can be done at that point; I'd say here is the promise a year ahead. Believe me, the key goal will be - at the end of next year, if it works well enough both on the scale and on the income side, we will propose a reduction of wage burdens, which are not more than those that exist in the environment, but which are still quite large for our entrepreneurs and our businessmen. The last thing - at the moment of introduction of value added tax, the maximum effort will be made to reduce today's rate of 20%. I would add that in 2003 we could end up introducing those two key laws that are not yet effective with us - VAT (a value added tax) and income tax citizens, the synthetic one; and also the maximum effort to make those two key fiscal forms, which is not possible today, which is a significant improvement for our citizens. Thank you for your attention. I sincerely hope this law has very much support in this home. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24130	I thank the Minister of Finance and Economy. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ) Do the presidents of the parliamentary groups want a word? Here's a word from MP Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24131	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there are good things in this legislative project, and I have to admit right away that what's good is really good, unlike the previous legal projects we've received from the finance minister Djelic, who were often confusing, often unsystematized, often inadequate to our society, fundamental social needs and principles of legal order. This time most of the law is logically sited and represents the settlement of one segment of the state administration and the simplification of its work, which is good in every legal system, positive and what needs to be supported. However, I did not answer the question that I am speaking extensively about what is acceptable in this legal project. I'm going to give the weight to what's the subject of my criticism, which I don't think is good. Mr. Jovanovic, you are agreeing with this of yours from Kostunica's party, not with me. What it says in "Nacional", it's from Alexander Tijanic and Momčel Mandic, and I will deal with them in particular, but not now when I'm talking about this tax administration law.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24132	I'm asking the MP to really talk about the tax administration law.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24133	I'm opening the file of Momchil Mandic now, perhaps today, as far as tomorrow. (From the O.R.: KOS works for DOS. Do you think you can stop me from speaking that way? You can't stop me. You can't even look funny because it's not in your blood. Your government is rocking and that's what's most threatening you. But let's go to what's wrong with this law. This law should not contain criminal legal norms. Unfortunately, in our legal order, there are already more than 45 laws, which federally state-of-the-art, which contain criminal-wash norms. Where most laws contain criminal-legal norms, the principle of protection of human freedoms and rights is at stake. Since the bourgeois Revolution, one of the main principles of the modern legal order is that all criminal-legal norms are systematized within one law, a criminal code. The prime minister in the area represents Napoleon's criminal code, which is called Penal Code in the profession, which Djelic may know better, Penal Code (Code Penal), because in other circumstances I learned from those in which he, in diametrically contrary, is it so, Mr. Djelic, that I would not engage in these language fines. You have not so far shown the will to implement one of the basic principles of the modern legal order in our legal system. As any law comes to mind, to enter into that law, you are normally setting criminal-legal standards. Here you even went so far as to predict that the adoption of this law ceases to apply some of the provisions of the Criminal Law of Serbia, Article 139, for example, point 3. It's something that's unacceptable and that we haven't had in practice so far, not even the communist regime since 1945, that any law changes criminal law. Keep in mind here that the tax administration law you put out of force the provisions of many other laws that have nothing to do with the tax administration. According to the logic of the matter, the tax administration law could be off-limits to put all earlier laws governing tax issues. However, you are also amending the Law on PIO in an inadequate way, then the Health Insurance Act, the Employment and Rights Act, etc. It's by its nature not tax laws, and that's how you create confusion in the legal order. This confusion is not good, because the basic problem of interpreting the right is the problem of harmonising once-controversial legal norms. Here in Article 3. you have formulated as one of the basic principles of this law: "If the other law is a question from an area governed by this law in a different way, the provisions of this law shall apply." That's what's particularly problematic. You should know, and unfortunately, you don't seem to have very good legal experts in your ministry, that there are generic laws and legal norms, i.e. laws and species, or as we have popularly called the back specialis here. You cannot in general rule out this provision the possibility of certain things being made by some new Lex special and for certain details provided for by this law being different offices. Nor can you generally promote a position like this - anything that is in other laws against this law does not apply. It can't. In our legal system, all laws are mutually equal. Where the back specialis is brought, he derogates the lex generalis. It's one of the principles that must be respected. You are now preventing the National Assembly, in principle, from passing a law in which it will say in one specific case or in several specific cases, that too will not apply. That can't be done. So despite perhaps a good desire to sort out the situation in the tax administration, that it works better, if you really wanted it, you create a problem in many other areas of life that are regulated by legal norms. The worst part is that you make people consult a large number of legal texts for one problem and to solve one problem. A clever legislator will never do that. Second, you're talking about the IRS right now. We had earlier financial police, and that name was taken more for someone to like the name of the police, and I even think that financial police were introduced while we had a militia for regular police work. As much as my memory serves, maybe I'm not exactly accurate here. The financial police carried out financial inspection operations. You're now introducing something that looks like the right thing to say to the police, and it's not the police, it can't be the police. If you really think it can, then we'll find that we have the tax police, so the Minister of Ecology will propose environmental police, the Minister of Health will propose health care, the Minister of Education will propose educational police, and the Minsitor of religion will propose religious police to determine who is baptized, who is not baptized, who prays, who is not praying, etc. Don't play with that term of police, and especially - what will the tax inspectors do with weapons. In the modern legal order, it is logical for the tax inspector to do his job, and as soon as someone prevents him from being helped by regular police. There should be no greater number of police services, because it threatens to be contrary in practice to their powers, to their wishes who will first discover someone. In a particular situation, a police officer and a regular police officer and their conflict in practice can be confronted in this way: whoever pulls it out sooner, who shoots first.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24134	People's MP, are you using another 10 minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24135	Yeah, and for the next 10 minutes. That's why it's not good. All police powers must be concentrated in one body of physical coercion. Of course, we have an exception at the Department of Justice, where there's a judicial guard and a prison guard, but they're only limited to a facility. In practice, we've had cases when a convict escapes to be chased by prison guards around the city. It's not right from the point of view of the basic principles of the legal order, because a prison guard has jurisdiction in a prison or in a prisoncar carrying a prisoner. Everything out of prison and out of court has to be a regular police matter. If we're going this way to specialize in police services, then it's going to get us a long way, and then we're going to turn into a police state. Tomorrow, any minister can submit a legal project and seek the police's authority. That's what Minister Vesenov, the agriculture minister, is looking forward to. He could introduce the agricultural police, arrest anyone who plows before dawn or who sows before nightfall, etc. Or who feeds those birds whom he hunts and exports. Half a million birds were killed by a singer, and in Vojvodina, you can't even hear birds chirping, just ravens, crows, crows, and some glare. Of course, this is a little bit of a cartoon to let you know how dangerous it is as a maneuver. I invite you to give it up. It's enough that you have inspectors with broad powers and every time an inspector comes across the problem in practice that it's the Ministry of the Interior's obligation to support him, to add his physical coercion as an argument to the inspector's hand, not an inspector himself to apply that physical coercion. Every civilised state tends to charge a 100% tax. Tax collection is one of the basic problems of every country. However, the tax administration under this and under the laws of other states has so much authority that it is very dangerous, if you add both regular and police powers. We can't let the IRS become a state state or the IRS be fear and shivering. You are looking for a measure between achieving maximum tax collection and maximum protection of human rights and freedom. Tax charges must not be placed above the principles of protection of human rights and freedom. If you don't have a tax code like this, but you rely on the help of another ministry, then there's already one kind of control. Of course, he needs to commit regular police to help the tax inspector, but a regular cop, if he has any doubts, will file a written report to his boss and signal that that happened. Then it's about a ministry that's not under the control of the finance ministry. Here we come to a new principle, that the ministry needs each other in certain situations to control themselves, and that is what the relative independence of each ministry is about. Each minister is almost sovereign in the area of his jurisdiction until he is brought down by the next assembly. It is precisely because it has large, almost unlimited powers under its jurisdiction that it is not insecure to be maximum control and in cases where it is controlled by other ministries. You're creating a closed system here. The tax administration, i.e. the tax administration, is one closed system compared to the total state administration, which is not good. You've introduced a tax identification number here. It is not necessary if there is a parent number. It can be necessary for foreigners, residents, those who carry out certain economic activities that come under the influence of taxes, and are not our citizens. If there is a home number, then that home number must be identical to that of the birth, death, marriage, and so forth. And tax obligations, health insurance and everything else. It would be ideal for that unique home number to be used for identification in all areas where a man comes into contact with state authorities, whenever he has a duty to the state, whenever he requires the state to exercise his right. Now, if you're going to build up these various identification numbers, the question is, how long will that take us? You know, in the Western world, there are identification numbers on social security -- social security, as it's called, and that's a basic identification number in America, there's no home number. Since there's a home number with us, we can cover it all. So, the home number -- and in the infirmary when a man goes away for treatment, and when he goes to the IRS, whatever else it is, he has a unique home number. A huge number of people in our country didn't even remember this birth number that exists for about 10, 15, maybe 20 years. A huge number of people don't know it by heart, so now you're going to enter a few identification numbers, so you're going to see what kind of confusion you're going to cause. Secondly, you will be in practice to fill out the tax form and to enter the home number in confusion, and when it goes to exercise the right of health insurance to enter the tax number, etc. People don't have to be professional in all areas. Then there's the state to simplify their procedure, to simplify their legal form in which it appears before it. That is why, in my opinion, this law should be corrected in that place, that this unique identification number applies to all natural persons, and there is a special register of legal persons. The register is run by courts, and the court register number should also be valid in front of the tax administration. The tax administration cannot in this way isolate itself against judicial jurisdiction, what today is the jurisdiction of business or commercial courts, as you have now called it. These constant changes in terms bring great confusion to the public. The identification number would have to be unique and could be controlled by the balances in various bank accounts. You put in what's called the line, and in one bank you can get information, theoretically, since it's not possible for us yet, because you've made a mess of the banking system, and you haven't taken care of it. You can get information about how powerful someone is and how much money he has in every bank in the country's space. That's the best control you can get. ( Bozidar Djelic: From January 1st) I'll explain later. Just explain, but fix this bill. It's not about explaining, it's about what your legal project isn't good at, and it's about showing your will to really improve it. This can be improved very simply, but you have not shown the will to do so in the sphere of the most ordinary electoral lists, and you will especially do so in this more subtle sphere when it comes to finance and tax obligations. What else can be seen from that? There is no coordination between individual ministers and ministries. We passed the Pension Insurance Act a few months ago, you voted it, and we were against and now your tax administration law changes that law. That doesn't make sense. This means that for these two years, the Ministry of Finance has had no coordination with the Ministry of Social Security or, as it is called, for labour and pension insurance, for pension and disability insurance. You didn't have any coordination. Why would that part of jurisdiction, which you are now treating in the Tax Administration Act, be covered by the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act? We brought that somewhere in May, June of the month, a few months ago. So this law could be accepted if you agreed to improve its contents, in this sense in which I was speaking.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24136	The word has been made by MP Dejan Mihajlov, president of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24137	The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen, it is unnecessary to talk about the need to pass this law. The DSS has always insisted on laws that are truly reformal. This law is truly reformal, because this law provides for reform of the state administration and, what we certainly want and what the goal is, building strong institutions. This is something new for our country, this hasn't happened yet. It is therefore the law, in relation to the laws of other countries, that is, specific and must be adapted to the organisation of our country. The effects and results of this law will certainly not be visible in six months, but in a few years. Therefore, implementation of this law requires first and foremost one endurance because there will be many obstacles and consequences to the realization. First of these, the abolition of the Payment Service or the Office for Accounting and Payment and the introduction to run business through business banks. The control that existed by the Office for Accounting and Payment now moves on to business banks and the question of whether it would be as safe as the PDO's security control, especially when paying off profits, where the PDO did not release profits until all obligations were met to the state. Now we'll see how it works. Therefore, the control that will be carried out by the new administration is something that will have to push financial and tax discipline into order for the state to function. The solutions that are here, as I said, there are those that are similar to solutions in other countries, but there are those that are specific. What is important and what this law must change and what has already been done in one conversation, i.e. more conversations we had with both the minister and his associates and what the DSS insisted on, it is that he must not jump out of the legal order, it must not be contrary to other laws, so as not to paralyze the entire system that we now have. This must be the most important law proposed by this ministry and the most serious law. He's so taxed as to reorganize the administration, there are no new charges. So it's not much about finance, it's about the organization itself. It is therefore important that this law, which leads to the construction of institutions, must comply with other laws, of course, as one beginning, because it is necessary in many other areas to move forward with the reorganisation of the state administration. This is the first law in two years to move towards the reorganisation of the state administration and the construction of new institutions from the foundation. We all insisted on it. This is one first step, maybe a little late, but it's a good thing it's done now. We can't judge now whether these solutions are good or bad, since they're new. We'll only be able to judge them for a few years, when we see how they will live in practice. The DSS has insisted on the amendments it has put in place, many of which have been accepted, which is that the tax police must not be armed, that there must be no authority that has the classical police, that there must not be one pervasion that can lead to a conflict of jurisdiction, to set up a conflict between the classical police and the police tax imposed by this law. The procedure must not be the one to be identified by a police-led procedure. They must not be offended by the rights of citizens. There are many parts relating to property rights and personal property of family household members, which according to the Constitution is as protected and non-injurious. So these provisions in this law should be deleted by amendment. On the matter of the tax police, it must be determined that this is appropriate to the police and that it is one procedure appropriate to this administration, that the procedure does not fall out of the jurisdiction of this administration. The big problem is also the introduction of new crimes by this law, which is certainly not good, especially since some institutes in this law have vague definitions. Criminal acts in regulated countries are introduced and exist only in the Criminal Law. It is something that is best and practical with the position of citizens' interest, because there is a clear cross-section of criminal acts in one law, and that citizens do not have to know or pursue by a large number of rules to find some crimes that they will eventually do, but that there must be for the sake of clarity of the legal system and legal order in one place. That's why it's bad to introduce new crimes by this law. That's one. Under two, I can't put myself out of force by this law by any provision of the Criminal Code. It's something that's unnecessary and bad. This reference from one law to another creates confusion in the legal order and calls into question the possibility for citizens to be informed and to know what is harmful to them if they resort to certain actions. So, there are more things that have been agreed and that the Ministry of Finance has accepted, the amendments the DSS has proposed and there are those that the Assembly still needs to discuss, to be declared. It certainly needs to be supported by the adoption of this law. The DSS will vote in favour of this law in principle, since we believe that it is new, good and beyond, along with these remarks and amendments that the government has already adopted, as well as those which it undoubtedly has to accept, in order to obtain a text that would be in line with the legal order, so as not to impose legal uncertainty on it. So the DSS will vote for this law in principle. The amendment has, most of it has been accepted, these few more, to reach one agreement that will allow us to pass a law that will certainly be something new and whose effects will be positive, not negative; because the consequences of the bad law that should affect the construction of institutions can be very bad and lead not to tax discipline and strong institutions, but to one bad law leading to anarchy and to the destruction of the state administration, which is certainly not our goal. That's why we need those of us who are working on adopting this law to be completely serious about the amendments, without political acuity, because this is a law that builds a state, not a political point; it's something that's above all of us.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24138	Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. ) The word has a representative of the government of the Republic of Serbia, Minister of Finance and Economy, Mr Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24139	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to intervene several times for some clarifications, and I'd like to say a few things about what's mentioned now, following the resignation of the heads of Parliament. The first thing, as regards the very place of this law in our legal order, of course our legal tradition is continental and one of the nice things about us is that we try to have a well-organized system, where we have material laws on the one hand, and on the other hand we have procedural ones. If you look at the parallel right, and it's continentally, I'm not talking here about some Anglo-Saxon and some other traditions, the reality is that tax-legal procedure has the property of the back of a specialis. See also the debate that existed in Republika Srpska's parliament, Macedonia, not to mention some countries that are further away from us. For Professor Dr. Seselj, tomorrow I will bring him from my now very rich collection in the tax domain, not only that "civil" but the "desampo" that was built for decades in that France, and also "de professional", i.e. The same two codes that regulate tax matter and not only on one side of the material law, but on the other hand what is really a code of procedure. It wasn't a model, because there's a lot of things that aren't applied to us at all, but it's indicative that from this tradition that has fed our tradition a lot and that we have to cultivate, it's shown that the tax-legal procedure has specificities and that these specificities don't need to be run away, but that we need to accept that in this law we have elements that are specific, that come out of what is the general administrative process, and that there are some elements that are not in the Criminal Code at this point. We have identified the tax code and many others, and there are elements of criminal provisions that, by some tradition, should be found in the Criminal Code, not in those laws. But it's our reality and it's not just our reality. For a while, there may be a reform to be carried out, comprehensively, that criminal code, and to return everything that, by some tradition, should be in it. I just want to point out that this is in no way directed against our legal order; we've been very careful not only not to increase the element of ignorance or, I would say, the chaos system, but to make this better. And with this law, you have what I just called -- a sacred letter from the taxpayer and the tax collectors themselves -- in one place things are regulated. It seems to me that this is a significant advance for democracy. And therefore, with the many changes that we have accepted in order not to intertwine with the Criminal Law, to accept what is necessary in this matter, to prescribe some more precise things that are necessary and cannot be found in this Criminal Code. I said earlier today that we have a very unfavourable situation, so what should be done by the same procedure that was done in one material law, you today have a great charm of approach, and hence the results on the ground. And that is why I urge you to support this approach which is very well founded in our legal system, where everything will be very clear; now I will illustrate it through the questions of these tax police, what is different and why it should exist. In today's tax administration, you have a so-called Civil and police sector. Of course, that was well-intentioned, at first when it was established, but as is often the case with us, only half follows; the guard di finance may have the Italian, which the Romanians have imitated in many ways, but what happened today is that we have one administration that has really two separate works. And you have an absurd where the Kadiya who cuts the tax, this Kadiya judge and has to charge, so guess what kind of discussions can happen on the ground. And in this way, this law will allow one much more normal organisation of the tax administration itself, where, on the one hand, of course, you have one number of people who will finally collect data, the next point will be the relationship with mandatory social security organisations, to collect what is data of all public revenues, not just taxes, but all that our citizens and businesses in the country pay. Well, then we have another part that's made up of tax inspectors. So, there's no more division between civil and police, but people who should be more interested in seeing the essence of things, which will spend a lot more time on the analysis of what, including the brain, not going on the field and saying -- let me see books, maybe eight times in the last year, because we didn't have enough procedure here either; and yes, we have a lot of harassment on the ground. We should have a way of involving the brain, comparing the facts, comparing it to the sector, comparing it to the previous period, and seeing what's going on here. With the transition of these fiscal functions from the PDO to the tax administration, these people who are supposed to be doing the job will finally have the right information and will be accessible to them in the right way. The information system -- it's one of the ugliest things we've inherited -- poverty, lack of investment in people. No one in the IRS has had one day of training in 12 years, I repeat, no one in the IRS has had one day of training in the last 12 years. In the last few months we've finally started, but you can imagine how long it takes for them to become what we want, a professional, well-equipped, real tax administration. And the other thing, one of the biggest things, is to say, the shame I experienced as a member of the government; when we had numerous meetings within this campaign, just to see what their real life with the tax administration was like, the taxpayers showed me, six weeks after the reforms finally received, changes at the federal level -- where in the Tax Law, which totally jumped out of the joint, if you want to talk about some legal norms that were no longer in their place, finally returned heavy interest to something that was much more acceptable, and not to those 0.2% a day, because they didn't have real information support -- people on the ground were throwing out solutions where there was still counting that interest under one law that no longer existed. It wasn't their fault, it was the lack of investment in activities and the future that adapted these information systems, so that honest people had to experience shame and shame in front of tax bonds and redecorate those solutions with their hands. So, here and in this law, we are talking about the process, the organisation, and also the necessary investments that are expected of us; I have personally tried to make a huge part of these investments fall on some foreign taxpayers, not on ours; to invest especially from the European Union funds, which are donations, not loans, so that, finally, what is a big mess, it stops, and what is a great injustice, every day, with our citizens, it is finally a thing of the past. And to mention several elements related to the relationship, that's what one speaker was talking about, with the PIO fund, with the health fund and others. The problem is not that this law goes into someone else's domain, but because the tax administration itself has not been able to carry out the right control for reasons that I've explained before; and the PIO Fund, and the RZO, and the labour market and who hasn't yet developed its control function, so we have entrepreneurs and businesses that literally have in their control offices. They have all the equipment to serve the many controls that are being arranged: and when you're done with the financial police, the PIO fund comes, then here's the RZO, if he comes by the labour market, and when it's all over, there's the tax police again. And there they can stay as long as they want, there's no normative, there's nothing that needs to be arranged that way. It's not respecting the rights of our taxpayers, and that's why you have changes in those laws. Finally, and this is one great news for our entrepreneurs, for our economy, there will be one control that will watch books, not flash controls that look at one and the same thing; and without surprise: different solutions are coming to Serbia country. We even have a situation where the tax administration says -- we need to pay everything right away, and a few weeks later, the PIO Fund controls come and says, we give you five wars. So what now? If you're a citizen, an entrepreneur and a businessman who wants to respect the law, how do you decide to do that? Through this law, and because of that and the transitional provisions, we finally have the unification of that control, how to be effective, to be unique, to act on one known procedure, by some norms that we will follow very closely, and of course we will wonder, if we see that control often going to some and never to others, what happens here. It also happens as a result of a lack of investment in knowledge, in the reforms of such a key institution, literally, feudalism at local level, I am a little exaggerated, but the situation where the simple control plan was something exclusively local. And, yes, we've discovered through some controls that we've had vicious local environments, I'm sure there are today; one of the elements contained in this law, which is to break it, between, on the one hand, tax administrations and some businessmen, and don't give God sometimes and local self-government, and don't give any less gods sometimes with other bodies of our country. That and through the information system, we'll finally have the elements of what's going on. After March 31st, there's a little talk about it, because it's not some sensationalism, the tax administration on one database opened up its accounting, and what we discovered - 28% of the booking was incorrect. So more than a quarter of what existed in our tax administration was incorrect. And finally, here, every week we clean up that database, let's see what's going on here. And to move on now to these relationships around the PDO, to say that banks will not be new controllers, because that's not a market economy either, we can't transfer what's the essence of government functions, which is to control the collection of public revenues, to business banks. We're establishing something, and it's with the unification of these controls another great news about our economy and citizens in this law, which is that they're finally going to be able to operate like the rest of the world. Let's not go any further than Republika Srpska, Macedonia, Croatia and some countries where SDK exists, which has become our PDO today, which is that they will be able to pay their salaries and taxes at deduction without prior control, but of course it does not mean that there will be no control. And here you have one legal provision that is very strict, under the threat of very severe sanctions, at the same time, within 24 hours, they must deliver a statement to the tax administration, i.e. to report that they paid those taxes and those deductions. So that's how everyone in their place -- the tax administration will control whether it's paid, and the banks will do their job, which is to carry out payment traffic and to do what they exist as institutions, within a single market economy. Of course, a delicate moment awaits us, January and February. I thank you here, hundreds of people who have been engaged in the PDO, in the IRS, in my ministry and in the ministries responsible for these funds, mandatory social security, who have been working for weeks and weeks to make this transition as dangerous as possible for our state finances, but it will be a moment of truth to us as citizens, so that what happened to us in the Republic of Serbia, when, despite the preparations, in the first two months, there has been a significant decline in public income. We are working on that not to happen, but believe me, we are in a state of high alert and you will see through which week on the bulky side, in amendments to the Budgetary System Act, which is just as systematic as this one on the revenue side, at the same level, we will have some provisions so that the elements of the function of the PDO vault go to the state vault of the Republic of Serbia. The PDO - of course, it was one good control, but take the example of Valev. In Valjev we have established, and this is not at all something specific for Valjevo and the district, that we have more than 40 companies that have no employees, and where monthly turnover in accounts is greater than 50 or even 100 million dinars. What are we talking about here? Of course we're talking about phantom companies and of course we're talking about tax evasion. To point out that in Novi Sad, not only was Valjevo, one tax evasion was discovered - Centrobanka (and the man who ran that business unit in Novi Sad is on the run), it formed 632 phantom companies, which committed evasion, hear me well, of the 6 billion estimated taxpayers tax evasion from sales taxes. Because simply in our system and our state he paid little attention to the details, institutions and their construction, to the training of people and to the provision of material and financial. We have to work on it, because simply, our country is largely blind to this day, to say deaf, not to say a little dumb, the way it works on the ground. Because of that, the tax identification number that we're talking about here will be the best way to finally clear our traffic, pay and other traffic, from these phantom firms, that finally our law-working businessmen know there's no such hole in that system that anyone who has enough connections with someone from a court or from some local self-government, and I don't know where else, they can do business for years, allegedly, getting all the stamps they need in the PDO, and actually doing a big tax evasion. Because of this and the transition of these functions to the tax administration and this procedure, there are great steps. I agree with those who have said that the proof of the success of this law will be what will be on the ground, but I am optimistic that in the first six to 12 months we will see some progress. I think a lot's already been prepared. It's waiting for this legal provision, so it can work. It's the last thing about the IRS. There will be no more financial police and I can say that there is a question that we have today about their role. That's what I was talking about at the beginning of my presentation. Are financial officers supposed to go with a market inspection, see if there are packs of cigarettes without an excise stamp, is that really something to do with the tax administration? For me, the answer is no. That's what someone needs to do, but not the tax administration, the way it's done. Here we have, as I have pointed out, at last one new function of the tax inspector, the division of what is cut and control and charge, so that it cannot, on the one hand, cadium say how much, and on the other hand, determine when and how much to pay. Separate functions. This will cause corruption to fall drastically; and not only that, you have the tax police who perform the procedure in pre-criminal actions. And we've accepted it, and I think it's very correct amendments, and all in all, it seems to me that the right moment has come, that the tax police are called police because they're working on detecting some of the criminal acts. They will be 200-300, no more, and of course their mandate is not to go and shut down the trades, but to help the local tax administration discover the most difficult cases of tax evasion; and of course it will be centralized; and of course it will not put that burden on people at the place, that those who live every day with some powerful people are not those who will be exposed to daily pressure, they and their family, but rather some other team who will cooperate with this local, and discover and implement the procedure, and co-operate with the MUP for detention. I think for the liquids, not just the tax order, but I would say democracy itself, it's not bad for Serbia not to create one parallel police force, with the right to bring in and carry a gun. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24140	Are there any other presidents of the parliamentary groups who want a word? Right to the replica? [[Emissary Vojislav Seselj seeks replica]] The basis for the replica? Wrong interpretation of your question. He has the word MP Vojislav Seselj, the right to reply to the answers from the presentation of Minister Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24141	The minister, in response to my remarks, said it would be inappropriate for the tax inspector to come across the street with a seller or a cigarette dealer to call and a policeman to confiscate, but must be able to confiscate it himself. You see, we've had in practice another kind of abuse of authority and taking over other people's powers. You organized the burning of seized cigarettes and instead of a seized cigarette to burn the competent authority, the non-competent organ burned. It is an abuse of authority when the Prime Minister or individual ministers burn seized cigarettes. It can't. That's right, he can't. It's also an abuse of authority, and it's also a hijacker, an illegal possession of a seized slave. For instead of seized goods to destroy him who is in charge of it, the seized slave is abused by someone who is incompetent, for you have misused the seized goods in order to achieve the propaganda effect. You've brought in TV cameras, Prime Minister, ministers, and they're putting in a thermal furnace with helmets on their heads. Is that your official clothes, that helmet, what's that for you? And rubber boots. It would be good for you to come to the Assembly with helmets and rubber boots, Minister, if you're already going to the thermal power plants. You shouldn't have done that. It had to be done by someone who was in charge, and you, eventually, side by side to observe. I'd understand that, and I wouldn't criticise you in particular. But to get you into the heat plant's oven, it's an abuse of official authority. You're actually in an unauthorized position to confiscate a slave, you've misused it. You must make up for the value of the seized goods and you must criminally answer for your abuse of your function and destroy the seized goods. I'm not even sure that there's a legal deadline in which you've had to guard the goods until all court proceedings are completed on regular legal medications and on emergency legal remedies, because the goods must not be destroyed until the deadlines are over and for emergency legal remedies. You've just seized you've been destroying. You shouldn't have done that. Maybe that poor guy, the owner, ran off with his head no matter what, maybe you promised him you'd forgive him just so he wouldn't object, who knows what else you were doing there. But you couldn't have burned it. If we now had a serious legal order, you would only have to be replaced because of unauthorized incineration.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24142	The word is made by MP Branislav Ivkovic. (Glass: Which group is it? ) President of the National Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24143	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is certain that the modernisation of the tax procedure and the improvement of the work of the tax administration is one of the good ways to create a stable state, because tax policy and its implementation are also the basis of the functioning of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and a stable budget. In that sense, and I understand the presentation of Minister Djelic, however very detailed, which in a certain way was also emotionally colored; this indicates that he has done this job with great will, desire, knowledge and experience; however, I cannot accept that, in a desire to show how good it will be, he forgets that some things have been done well before and that there is no need to paint in black everything that has been past, that anything brighter today or tomorrow will be. In this tax package that is proposed, which contains the tax procedure law and tax administration, as the only legal project, and six amendments and additions to existing laws, there is indeed a number of quality solutions to be supported, but it also comes up with solutions that talk about smaller terminology interventions, where more significant moves would have to be made, in order to even talk about tax reform. In addition, there remains an open question - if everything before was bad, is this perhaps an excuse to require individuals who have more than 20 million dinar capital to report their assets and, in that way, to verify what they have acquired in the past, without any control and obligation to pay the tax debt? However, we will discuss this later. It is clear that the fundamental and significant change is primarily in the fact that this is an attempt to regulate significant tax areas, but there is no real reform until they are amended and completed in key legal projects, such as: the Law on the Ministry of Pensions and Disability Insurance; the Law on Cataster and Immobilities; the Law on Trade Courts; the Law on Local Self-Government and at the level of the Federal State Federal Law on Personal Work. It is only when these legal projects make significant changes regarding the tax system and the work of the tax administration that we could start talking about a serious tax reform that needs to be implemented in the Republic of Serbia. This is how, with the tax procedure law and the tax administration, and the amendments and additions to the law, where first and foremost the releases of unwarranted large duties imposed by Minister Djelic and his ministry cannot be talked about serious tax reform. In the tax package that is proposed, and we will talk about it in more detail, there are good solutions, and above all there is thought of those solutions relating to the exemption from sales tax or the reduction of sales tax, but the solution that here is certainly more serious is the introduction of the concept of tax police, tax police status, the giving of certain rights and obligations, in some members of the proposed law, which are primarily related to the Law on the Ministry, whether the life of a tax officer or an ordinary police officer is more valuable, because they are always someone's child, father or mother and, therefore, it is certain that in this legal project, there are indeed the previous speakers who were right, taking over certain solutions belonging to other laws as parent. I would especially point out, which requires a more serious approach by Minister Djelic himself, who now has no time to listen to the president of the parliamentary group, but is running a second story here, it is a fact of the obligation of taxing those persons who have more than 20 million dinars. What does that mean? Does that mean that it was a black hole before, so you don't know how much property it has, or is it now an attempt for all those who, surely and honestly, have acquired that 20 million in difficult times, and someone and 200 million, someone maybe 2 billion dinars, to now, by reporting their assets, in fact, be amnestous from proving how to acquire that property. This is especially true in the moment when, as is happening in this way, the Privatisation Act applies, because we come in a position to sell, transparently and through tender privatisation, as modernly said in the Assembly, and in the newspapers, people who are calm souls with 10, 20, 30, 50 or 100 million dinars are buying businesses. Does anyone in our citizens ask you where they got those funds? Will all of them now, applying under this law, which we need to decide on, effectively verify their assets and be taxpayers only for the future, as opposed to the assets they already have and only pay taxes for that difference. Why isn't there a favorite retroactiveity here? If we introduced retroactiveness into the Extraprofit Act, let's check how people, let's say, legal flows, but in an illegal way, made property, why don't we introduce the obligation of retroactivity here as well. Why don't we say here-- gentlemen, you who report 20 million, 30, 50, 100 or 200 million property, prove it, gentlemen, where did you get that property? Pay taxes on that property, then you show up as buyers at a tender auction and privatization of social property and in the process of property transformation. Is this how, silently, in this law, in those people who report that property of 60, 200 or 500 million dinars, we are practically legalizing property acquired by a grey economy, because the Extraprofit Act covers only one week of the way in which we acquire property? We all know that six weeks, because of the embargo and a lot of other things, were in the gray economy zone. The extraprofit law didn't include those who had 1,000 squares and pool houses, to ask them where you got it. He covered that worker who might have got a three-bedroom apartment of 95 square meters, so he had to pay the tax on those five squares more, although he has seven children, because that relief for you who don't deal with social policy doesn't exist. And why we're just saying here now -- the obligation to report assets worth more than 20 million dinars and dots. There is no obligation to verify modern information systems, which Minister Djelic is sure to introduce, and he, I believe, has the undivided support of all MPs regardless of the political commitment; whether they can't verify from where the assets came from to the buyer "Health" from Leskovac or some other factory, and the citizen of Serbia who acquired the property in the past period. Are we essentially helping to create here some new layer of citizens of this country, who have become untouchable, or have they been supported by various things, here they are mentioned, but not to speak last name, in fact to some to come to power, so in this way they amnesty. Therefore, the fundamental objection that the people's socialists have on the first item of the agenda, this is the law that we're considering, is exactly what it is -- if someone has an obligation to report assets greater than 20 million dinars, then they have to have an obligation to prove how they acquired it. And he can't show up at the sales process, at some auction and privatize businesses, that he gets even tax breaks because he buys businesses without proving he's acquired the property that he buys the company. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24144	Are any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? No, I don't. ) We are moving to debate with the order of MPs according to the application for a word on the proposal for a tax procedure and tax administration. First reported is MP Djordje Mamula, followed by MP Dragan Tomic. Total DSS time 54 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24145	It would be good if we found out that the government voted on this bill, what the minister of justice thought. Otherwise, when it comes to laws, I think it's better to have an original plagiarism than to have a bad original. This bill enters the order of mediocre originals. The debate on this bill is held at the moment when it is revealed that by economic freedoms, and which is very important when it comes to taxes, we are in 144 places in the world of 155 countries. The data was published in January 2002, with 50 elements taken into account by July 2001. We're probably not going to get any further from this place we're in in January 2003. Otherwise, it's the result of research by the Heritage Foundation, and they're said to be very close to Republicans, so they're extremely liberal, but I don't think that's relevant. When it comes to tax regulations, including this bill, investment and where we are at the freedom of potential investors to invest here, we are in 66th place in the world. The first is Singapore, the third is America, the eighth Slovenia, 25 Croatia, 45. Colombia, and we're 60 and some. It is likely that this bill will also affect the business climate and the identification of foreign investors because of the solutions this bill has. Otherwise, the proposal comes at a time when, according to some independent organisations, about 70% of people live as they have lived before or worse. In my opinion, the impression is that this bill should be some sort of correctional exam for the Extraprofit Act. As I recall, under the law it was planned to charge about 800m euros, and 60m were charged, so 13.5 times less. The Privatisation Act has just been mentioned here; I just wanted to remind you that the DSS parliamentary group, which is also related to this topic, in my opinion, was a proposal for privatisation that no one could enter into the privatisation business; if he did not pay the extraprofit obligation. It was later amended that it was enough to make a statement that he had reconciled his obligations to enter the privatisation process. The DSS amendments in their content go in this direction that, when it comes to the tax administration, this country does not become a police state and that those human rights protected by international human rights documents are respected in this area, so that soon the European Court of Human Rights will also be in charge of us on many issues, including in this area. I think this law with the powers to be given and the vague formulations of criminal acts can affect the business climate and investment. As for its application, the issue is raised, due to the development of corruption in this society, as it will be applied. Namely, as you know, 1999. Serbia was 90th in the ranking of 99 countries per corruption list, and the 90th place is high, and a single-digit place has those countries where corruption is almost gone. In 2000 we were 89 out of 90, and in 2002 we were 93 out of 126, which is an improvement. You have recently, Mr. Minister, and when it comes to this law, you have announced that you have been in the sports societies of Red Star and Partizan and have promised to run tax books since 2003 and that there will be no more double tax books. So you were admitted to falsifying their tax books. It'll be very interesting what the procedure will be like for them. This has been published, and it hasn't been denied at Blica since 14 November this year. When some of the provisions relating to criminal law and the Code of Criminal Procedure are considered, it is obvious that the legislators were not satisfied with the rules of the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure, but this law cannot improve the criminal law or the laws of criminal proceedings, which have really bad solutions. It would be necessary to amend criminal law and law in criminal proceedings, not to do so in this way. I have to say that the remark that was made here during the debate that the secondary law cannot change the main law, it remains. This law in relation to the Criminal Law is secondary, so I believe that the crime of tax avoidance, which is called tax evasion by the Criminal Law of Serbia, cannot be changed. In addition, since this part is actually the wording in this tax fraud proposal, it is completely wrong, because when the intention of these works is stated, then it is clear that the work is done in the intention of obtaining illegal and property benefits. According to the proposed formulation, someone who avoids paying taxes does not do so to keep the money to himself, but to avoid paying taxes. However, the key thing is that it does so to keep the money for itself. So that formula is completely wrong. In addition, it has been pointed out that there will now be taxation here and those dealing with illegal activities. If taxes were to be charged from those engaged in illegal activity, this would mean that their activity would be declared legal. In addition, I must remind you, Mr. Minister, that illegally obtained revenue or other incomes cannot be, by logical things, subject to registration, because no one is obliged to report their illegal business. So this isn't about criminal law, it's about logic. In addition, when it comes to the tax fraud that is presented here through Article 175, it is important to stress that the act has been carried out by filing a false application or by intolerance of the application. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I'm telling you this because this opens up the possibility of an extraordinaryly good defense against the court of people being prosecuted for this. Otherwise, it would be good if you had looked at the tax evasion solutions in the French criminal code and looked at the rights of the defendants and witnesses in the French Code of Criminal Procedure. That would be my exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24146	The word is made by MP Dragan Tomic, and then by MP Slobodan Adzic. The parliamentary group has six minutes in total.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24147	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when it comes to this tax procedure and tax administration law, it is broadly trying to resolve important issues in the previous control and public income bill. I think it's an important area, because obviously there was a lot missing in the previous period when it came to the power of an individual official, clerk or administration, tax administration. However, I must say that the most significant areas envisaged to treat the gray zone are not covered by this law and I do not think a full guess, the full effect of this law will be achieved in practice. What's this about? So it's still going to stay with the municipal local self-government, it seems to me, the most important thing, which is to register or open trades. I don't think that's a good solution, because the tax administration will take over the tax identification number, but it will be able to get to any taxpayer who gets a solution from the local authority of the administration or from a commercial court, who still retains the right to make decisions about opening businesses, companies or anything on the business scene in Serbia. You've been trimming these organs, individuals in the service, trying to keep their significance, burdening the tax administration in several ways for years. The first and basic way is, in my opinion, the possibility of more than one person in the same facility, only by changing the founders, doing business or moving to another location, and the minors of the same persons continue to act, leaving the disputed taxpayer in part of the evasion, in the part of tax avoidance, to hang in some form in which you can't pay taxes, and the essence is tax collection. Also, when it comes to legal persons, entities, I'm talking about businesses, economic operators, there was practice, and I think there's still practice, because it's hard to overcome that category, to go to some court at night, and in the morning you already have a solution to change the founders or change the performance or to add forms to the expansion of activity, from which a certain type of evasion occurs in the previous period. That, if he doesn't get rid of it, won't be good. I have to say, when it comes to the control function, I think the essential control function has to be with the tax policy bearer, and that's the tax administration. She's still distracted and still staying in pieces. So taxpayers can treat many state authorities, from the Department of Economic Crime to the newly formed tax police, and I think it should be a single service and do the same job. So he treats the taxpayer and checks whether he pays, doesn't pay taxes, whether he's executed evasion or not and whether it's regular. The moment the largest number of controls in this country ends with zero, it will be the highest success of the organ and then we will come to an absolute stage of tax discipline and tax records. Finally, to say that this law has a good idea and a good form, but without those key segments, this real tax procedure will not be achieved and I think we're going to stay in part of the idea. He's got quality in him, but he didn't catch the gist. I think that, as Professor Ivkovic said, another part of the legislative regulation must move significantly towards reform, in order to get a comprehensive procedure in the tax sphere.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24148	The word has a folk MP, Slobodan Adzic, and after that, MP Milos Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24149	The Honored Presidency, honourable fellow Members of the Government, is before us a proposal for a tax procedure and a tax administration, which wants to reorganise the tax administration, to prescribe its conduct when determining and charging taxes and to regulate tax offences. The bill is a conglomerate of procedural law and material law, which regulates the tax administration as part of the state administration, as well as tax offences. I don't think it's the happiest conglomerate, but I accept it may be necessary. Not contesting the proposal's intention, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to want in a better way than so far to regulate relations in the field of tax policy implementation, i.e. to introduce tax discipline, as it has so far existed, I do not think the proposal will have the expected effect in the short term when adopted in this assembly. By putting the law into the procedure, the Proposer acknowledges that this area needs better regulation. The government believes that the adoption of the law will improve the work of the tax authorities, and that this will allow for a greater inflow into the budget. Contrary to such an attitude, I am of the opinion that, even after the adoption of this law, in this area, the existing situation will not change quickly. In practice, we already have examples, such as the Privatisation Act, which is very difficult to implement and the Extraprofit Act, whose application is very controversial. If we want bigger revenues to the budget and greater financial discipline, we need to pass a number of other laws, above all those to which we will create conditions that we have healthy taxpayers in Serbia, and I mean, above all, taxpayers who have full protection of the state. Unfortunately, we have those today, but very little. There is no favourable legal environment in the country. How difficult the tax bonds are today can only be seen if we inform ourselves of how many judicial and judicial verdicts in the trade courts in Serbia are standing and not being executed. Therefore, there is still no legal certainty and what is expected of the taxpayer rather than to treat the state the way the state treats him. Here I would mention another important fact, according to the taxpayers, which is that there is still no property security in Serbia. The society is not yet decriminalized, property owners continue to face the occurrences of racketeering, and these same owners simultaneously appear as our taxpayers. We could also cite a number of other examples, but it is clear from this example why there is no tax discipline in Serbia. I agree with the Serbian government that it is not available to the extent necessary, so that one state could be called a serious state. On the content of this law, MPs of the parliamentary group may conduct controversy and the bill may dispute or support. If I focus only on the provisions of the law, not taking into account the wider environment, I would still support this law for a number of reasons. First, it is no doubt that the tax procedure is better regulated than was governed by the Law on the establishment, control and collection of public revenues. Secondly, if the adoption of the proposed law ceases to apply a series of provisions of 11 applicable laws and one law in general, it is clear that the Proposer intends to codify this matter to some extent. Thirdly, the promoter, and when I say this, I think more of the Ministry of Finance than of the Serbian government, has made maximum efforts, offering some specific legal solutions, so that the poor work of the judiciary in this area, then the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior, in a way, compensate. Here, first of all, I mean the solutions to certain state affairs, the detection of tax crimes and the conduct of the affairs of the investigation are transferred to the tax police. It can also be seen that this law better defines the criminality of taxpayers compared to laws of purely criminal - legal matter. Fourth, the mover is making efforts to reorganise a part of the state administration, hence the tax administration, facing the problem of an unimplemented reform of the state apparatus in Serbia. In these circumstances, the proposals for a solution in this tax law, and above all, about the tax police, can be good. In view of all the above and all the objections, this law should be supported in principle. The law can also be supported in general if the amendments to the DSS parliamentary group, which it has tabled and explained in the previous presentation of Gjorge Mamul, as well as some other amendments that go to correct this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24150	The word is by MP Milos Todorovic. The next reported word is Petar Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24151	Honorably Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, esteemed journalists, dear viewers, the Honorable Mr. Minister, this law in its proposal and form presented to the MPs is quite good. But I will try, as a longtime civil servant, to look at it from another aspect and see what it looks like from another perspective. A package of tax laws, which we are considering at this session, is a typical example of life being denied by unreal projects that government experts pulled up and tried to transplant with us last year. This hybrid has not been received, it has dried and now its creator is vegetating in the form of alterations and additions. Something that has experienced a total debacle should not be changed and complemented, because it is not possible. A new expert team with new ideas should be hired, which will give Serbia adequate tax regulations. Before we move on to the very proposal of the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, I can't help but look back at some events from a few days ago. After the National Assembly session was postponed on November 12th, Minister Djelic and a senior official of the assembly said the people would suffer huge damage because they would not be able to buy oil and sugar cheaper several dinars that day. The culprits, they said, were those who did not want to adopt a government agenda that was more strangely sociable than a package of tax regulations and a caucus referendum. On that occasion, they did not say anything about the damage done to the people by the tax system adopted in April of last year, according to the same government and the same minister. These policy promoters and bad tax makers are now giving up a firm hand course, liberating the people from paying practically unpayable taxes. I'm just wondering why. Minister Djelic has been campaigning these days to explain to athletes how it is safe for them to pay income tax. That's how he says he'll get out of the gray business zone. The athletes, gentlemen, were never in the gray zone. This could possibly be said of various mechanics in the area who have sold and traded for years with the most talented athletes of our country and invested money in foreign banks. Take their taxes, Mr. Minister, and leave the athletes in Serbia alone, because there's little for them here who pays, if anyone pays them at all. In Europe, they can pay 30% tax, because they have a thousand times as much income as our athletes. In the course of their careers, they provide materially for life. But let's go back to the Bill of Tax Procedures and the Tax Administration. It is indeed too much for poor Serbia, with a ruined economy and citizens with the lowest standard in Europe and perhaps in the world. For the administration of public income, which is staffed and technically very poorly trained, it is too much of a task to assume all the obligations that this law provides. By abolishing the Office for Accounting and Payments, the former SDK, on the weak shoulders of the tax administration, comes jobs that it certainly will not succeed in carrying out. In view of the new large way of tax control through the inspection and tax police, a new way of forced collection of the debt tax and a large list of tax crimes and tax offences, it is difficult to assume that the tax administration will take over all these transactions on 1 January 2003 and will have any success in the work at the end of next year. The draft law provides for certain provisions to have a return fact, which, according to the MPs of the Soviet Union, is both against the constitutional and against the law. One provision in the draft of this law really brings us into a big doubt -- what about extra-professors, is this problem going to get stuck in the seal? In fact, Article 9 literally states: "When income, i.e. property acquired, is the opposite, the tax administration will determine the tax liability in accordance with the law governing the proper type of tax." So, after all the noise around and extraprofitting extrafits from the same, special commissions and the final collapse of the venture, everything comes down to the tax administration. As the people said, he ate a donkey wolf. It'll be the same as in the '70s, when the social income management questioned the origin of the property. The job lasted ten years, and the result was zero. Finally, honourable fellow MPs, I urge you to carefully consider this package of tax regulations and vote even more carefully on it, so that next year we do not again have new changes and additions that will say that, as last year, we do not know what we are doing. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24152	The word has been made by MP Petar Cvetkovic. The next to be reported is MP Tomislav Nikolic. There has been a replacement, the word has been made by MP Dusan Bujudin, as MP Petar Cvetkovic is not present.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24153	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, we finally have one law that the DSS will support, and it will support it because, although it has a grudge on it, it is a true reform law. I understand it, when I first looked at it, a few times and as a correctional to the law that we passed last year, which caused a lot of controversy and which, now it has already become finally clear, missed and one unnecessary law passed. Of course, it's about the law on taxation of extraprofessors, which we pointed out back then, as a fundamental regret, had a retroactive fact. That's why the first commendation to this law. From his provisions, there is no retroactive fact. That's what's good. It is also good that this law regulates systems that have internal logic. That's for sure. It is good that this bill finally saw the light of day, although it had to be seen much earlier. However, a few grudges stand. You've seen the DSS amendments. Some of these amendments have been adopted. There was unnecessary controversy about it. I remind you it's about that weapon. However, the amendment has been adopted, and that is why it is unnecessary to say it. But there are a few other things that the predecessors pointed out that, I think, because of its significance should be repeated. What's this about? It is that in its flight, I would say, that this law is presented as reformically as it is - and in general when it comes to the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the least of the objections on our part have been to the work of this ministry, they have been far more difficult to object to the work of other ministries - in all these ambitions, I think it has gone too far. It's said, but it needs to be underlined. What's this about? It's about unnecessarily introducing criminal-legal norms into this law. It's dangerous for many reasons. The old principle says, "Nulea pona son lies," which means "No punishment without law," and there's also no crime unless it's legal. So here's that zeroum crimen son of a lie, that principle is only partially respected here. He's respected as much as he is, though taken as a felony, but he's not in the codified Criminal Law we have. It's very dangerously said; it's said here, it gets into citizens' rights; but I would say another finding, believe me, in practice it will bring a lot of difficulties and create legal confusion. I'll remind you, in the famous exploited Arms Act, we had an article 33 that referred to holding and carrying weapons, which was in practice one of the most widely applied members for the last six or seven years or something more, how long this agony lasted. It's too ambitious and I think it had to be left behind. Also, I point to Article 133. The DSS has submitted an amendment that has not been adopted. And what's this about? Here the right to property of members of the household is directly denied; denial of property rights is therefore a violation of the Constitution. It doesn't necessarily mean if there's one thing, a moving thing, if it's especially more valuable, that it can be taken away if one of the members of that household owes a tax. It is very dangerous and would create a precedent, and in particular it will have great difficulties in practice. There's something else in the bill. I would like to remind you that a member of the 45th puts the position of the taxpayer in the situation that he practically cooperates with the tax authorities, means with the tax administration, in the direction of his punishment, or judgment. I'll remind you of the long-forgotten, but still by the evil-known laws the communists so skillfully brought, and it was about the Law on the Investigation of the Origin of Property. Several of the most fundamental postulates of modern criminal law have been breached, but human law has also been severely violated. In that law, the obligor was obliged to give himself information and defend himself, practically without charge. It's also one of the ujduras of the previous regime, and the gentlemen who belonged to that regime will remember, and I think they're red when the law is mentioned today. Finally, Article 47 is in direct confusion with Article 46, as a circle of privileged witnesses is narrowed down, and there are also vague provisions of Article 47. And we've just intervened with the amendments, one of which is accepted, the other isn't, but then the logic is disrupted because these two members are in a close relationship. One more thing in the end, it's controversial what Article 186 wanted. In fact, this changes Serbia's Criminal Law directly because the tax crime is practically being disclosed. That's exactly what I was talking about at the beginning that it would create a lot of confusion, especially that it would bring a lot of difficulties in practice. So I urge you and ask you to see and carefully study the amendments submitted by the DSS, especially those which are not accepted on the Legislative Committee and to express your agreement with these amendments, because believe that only their adoption will improve this, otherwise essentially good, law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24154	The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic, and the next one registered for the word is MP Angelkovic Zoran.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24155	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, this is the bill that the minister tried to avoid the debate by having a debate on him in the debate on many other laws, the DOS Trouble is that he seems to have placed the most diligent minister in the place where state revenues are collected under his authority, the "dericosis" of the people, and it would be good that if such a minister, who loves to work and love his job so much, exists in the government of Serbia, to take care of the economy, to care for the security of citizens, and apparently the profession for this minister, whose tax is iber alles. And you have billboards in Serbia's cities where it doesn't say whether he loves Serbia, whether he fought for it, but says, "Did you pay the tax?" So far, the Republic Public Revenue Administration has been outside the finance ministry, and now the Ministry of Finance with its tax administration is outside the system and outside the government of the Republic of Serbia. One round system that will only grow and grow, uncontrollable by others. One system that goes into all other ministries through this bill sets into the rights and freedoms of man and citizen, and tax collection is more important than anything in Serbia after the adoption of this law, both from the water and from the air and from the country. How do I prove it? Members of the draft laws to which we have submitted amendments; Article 3 which does not make arrangements, but introduces chaos into the legal order and one block is subject to tax law and is applied in the event that in any other law someone dares to mention the matter which this law now regulates. They are not tax-listed members, but they say - if some other law regulates something that is regulated by this law, this law applies. And why the billmaker, it is the Government of the Republic of Serbia, why it did not immediately propose amendments and additions to all those laws that will no longer apply because this tax administration law will apply. Once again, Article 5 introduces retroactivity; there is no legal certainty for taxpayers. The constitution really says that certain provisions of a law can be applied retroactively, but here the notion is that tax obligations can be applied retroactively. Well, now find a businessman who dares to smell the taxes of this country, not to steal anything, to leave nothing for the black days, and does not know whether any law will be introduced and, prescribed, that even though he has settled all the tax obligations, ten years after that, someone legally prescribes him a new tax liability he has already settled. After all, the chaos that continues after your revolution, the laws that you have passed and which have retroactively applied and which the courts are now correcting, and you don't care, you act as if you haven't done any harm to the state, is a lesson for the MPs of the SRS. Article 8: the frequency and duration of tax controls shall be limited to the necessary extent. Is there such a broad provision of the law that will tell the taxpayer - no one will harass you; and what is the necessary measure? By rejecting our amanamn, the biller wrote -- we will take care of what is necessary. You won't take care of it. Here's a situation where anyone wants to help in any way the SRS, five books if they buy from us and pay through the bill, all the leeches of the state enter his firm and don't come out until they suck all his blood. That's the necessary measure. So the necessary measure is that the taxpayer will have to be the one to help those in power and then the police inspectors will behave completely differently. The unique tax number or the tax number you introduce is sufficiently said; you can only imagine what it would look like if each ministry introduced an identification number for each Serbian citizen, what would we bring it into? You see, in Article 35(3), you say that the authorised person of the tax administration can bring an extraordinary and oral act to the scene. If you go back to the 34th Tax Act, it's also a tax solution. You are introducing the right to the tax administration, the authorised person of the tax administration, to issue an oral tax settlement on the place. Now, in these regulated legislations, which you are referring to, it doesn't exist. You're saying the tax settlement was delivered when it was delivered to the mail recommended by the shipment. Where's that? And where it is for you is proof that you delivered a tax settlement by handing it over to the post office. The tax settlement is served when it is signed by a taxpayer, or by one who is his representative, or by one who is authorized. Usual information; absurd Article 45; because it says that if he has not given written information, he will be in the official place to give oral information. Immediately, the record is drawn up, meaning the written record of what he said, and he gets a copy of the record, which says what he said orally. Well, isn't there a taxpayer's right to dictate his statement immediately and be a written statement, not an oral statement, according to which the record is made? Just so things get complicated and messed up. Art - Tax Administration decides on the need for skill. The IRS determines the expert. If the taxpayer objectes, then the head of the tax administration's organisation unit, which has appointed the expert, resolves by objecting to the taxpayer. You must understand, in this dispute there are equal tax administrations and taxpayers. He's not a lower species, he's funding the state and all its needs, and the judiciary, and the health care, and the schooling, and the military, and the police, all state spending. Notice without a court order, without the presence of a person whose premises have been audited, and there is no obligation to introduce in the record that there was no tax payer present. Article 52 is for laughs. I have to read his point three. - "the suspicions resulting from the denial of information, i.e. the lack of evidence by the taxpayer, may be in the process of determining the tax liability at its expense. "So, the taxpayer doesn't deliver any information to you, and then, when you determine the obligation, you say, "now that you haven't even delivered the information, "I doubted that you're working in accordance with the law, "and you find that it works in accordance with the law, something else is added to your tax liability, Who's the suspect that can hurt? The tax authority's suspicion that someone wants to tax evasion can't be at the expense of a taxpayer. It can only be at his expense if it is found that he has failed or has not paid within the time limit, or how we regulate it to this member of the law. I don't believe a member of 62 can interpret a minister. I deliberately skipped 2-3 members, which cannot be interpreted linguistically, but article 62 says: "The income tax of citizens cannot be less than the amount calculated on the basis of the formula, by which certain indices are applied to factors that represent the indicator of the luxury lifestyle of the taxpayer." Well, Minister, brother, it doesn't make sense. So where's our formula now, so where are those indications, what's a luxury life? Who's going to determine? He says the government will, on a proposal from the minister, determine who lives more luxuriously than the tax. Which taxpayer is determined to have an indication of a luxurious lifestyle? A luxurious lifestyle, I should know, is a pastry that's 10 times more expensive than plain bread, is the luxury life-style of a taxpayer? Milka Marinkovic throws out of the O.R. ) I would ask you, Milka, to conform to your dress and behave. Article 67. - "In order to ensure tax collection that has not arrived for payment or which has not been determined... "Minister, I am in charge of Milka, and I would ask you to pay a little attention, because you are introducing a tax dictatorship here for Serbian citizens, that is what you should tell them. "In order to ensure tax collection, which has not arrived for payment or which has not been established, and there is a risk that the taxpayer defies, or makes it inefficient, its collection, the tax administration can by way of a solution establish temporary measures to secure the collection. These provisional measures also include a ban on the availability of money in the account. In order to ensure tax collection, which has not been established at all, Mr. Minister, which means to all Serbian citizens, suddenly the solution - the ban on having movable, immovable assets, money, and now I'm going to determine your tax. And in what country does it exist? I apologize to the MP's group, I'll finish right away, I've taken away their valuable time. You're here calling the laws that Italian financial police are fighting against the mob. Well, tell us first here who are members of the mafia in Serbia; and secondly, who you arm the financial police, and thirdly, whether every taxpayer will have to determine a stand for delaying the arms of a police inspector, while he is searching a hard-distored taxpayer.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24156	The word has a finance and economy minister, Mr Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24157	Madam President, honourable Members of the People, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to a few objections to the law, to thank for some of the praises we have received and to point out perhaps again why some of the solutions that have been proposed here are as they are. First of all, as far as crimes are concerned, it's indisputable (maybe the second or third time we're talking about it) that we shouldn't have an intertwination. The truth is that we already have, I would say, something that exists in our legal traffic, which is that we have laws that predict criminal provisions, that's a fact; maybe for some future discussion we need to discuss the comprehensive reform of this criminal code, so that it can be innovated, because maybe there is a reason why there are some legal acts that regulate and procedure and some penalties in this way. Therefore, by respecting, of course, the objections that exist, I can only tell you that there is another principle, which is the principle of efficiency. All directors of tax administrations and finance ministers, who made even more progress in tax collection, and when I say so, that means the possibility to reduce the rate in a gradual period of time thanks to a better coverage, there were such provisions everywhere. And in some legal systems, which are similar to us or ours is similar to theirs, you have such provisions. So I understand why such an observation, I would say, in some very pure interpretation of what a legal order should look like, why it should not be found in this law, but it requires the principle of efficiency, the fact that it exists in many other laws, and the fact that, if you look at the ranking of one of these acts in all countries, it has a very high status. We don't have anything between the Constitution and the law, we don't have a so-called. organic laws, we don't have so-called organic laws. By the constitution of an orderly system law category, but this law is on the same level as all that lies beneath the Constitution, and therefore, because it should be a sacred letter of what is one of the most important things in our country, and that is the reconciliation of public obligations, I appeal to you to vote the law as it is. We've respected a large number of amendments, but at this point, it seems to me that further dismembering this law can actually degrade everything that exists in it. I hope we can come to that conclusion in our debate. Of course, the next step, in case it should, not only in this law, but also in those 40 and the change of others, where there are such provisions, why not, then consider a comprehensive reform of that criminal code and put again into that procedural law what should be in it again. Personally, I don't mind that, but let our tax administration and our reform wait for that moment so they can do a much better job of their own. It's something that's most important in what's left of some controversial points. I want to mention the question of the bill, or I didn't answer that question. How is it possible in Serbia that you have companies that don't have any employees and have a turnover of several hundred million dinars a year? As someone said earlier, I think it was a group of SPS, or already as this group is called, in any case in that domain, we have to notice that we have a big problem in everyday life with some solutions that, indeed, some courts are easy to give, that I'm not talking about allowing the temporary suspension of business activity of a given firm, with that paper from local self-government, to then provide a tax haven for a given taxpayer. Indeed, through some formal changes, owned by the company itself, i.e. With the founding stakes, it's possible to move the weight to another place. And, in the making of this law, look at some members that refer to it. We watched Serbia as it is, with all the faults, the petty, miserable tricks that those who want to avoid the law use; and therefore we have enough concrete answers in this law; that this tax administration is finally looking at more and more where the evasion is and that the weather location is not always and constantly towards those who have some books and are working so hard to comply with the law, rather than that ever more time and the highest quality resources of that administration go where the biggest tax evasion is, they chase these phantom firms and they have a well-organised procedure, well-organised penalties, suitable, than what, so that they can punish them in the right way. Therefore, if you look at all of this, it is of course to me, and how dear and very important that we do not lose at this point what is above all, and that is particularly important after the period that we have experienced, that the rights of citizens, basic human freedoms are respected. On the other hand, we also have to have one tax administration that has enough power to carry out this procedure, and if criminal provisions were deleted, what are crimes, then I'm afraid the whole law will lose its full meaning. Simply, and in some of the most pathetic democracies, if you will, ask Father Stefi Graf, in prison, how he feels about avoiding taxes. Ask Karl Lagerfeld how he felt when the tax administration -- and he said he lived in Monaco, but when it was checked out what and where he was from, when he was on the phone, when he saw how many phone impulses went out of his house in Paris -- he qualified all this to be a French taxpayer and cut him a few dozen, even I think it was 200m euros in later taxes. For those who speak of extraprofit, it is said in the debate itself that this law will be a natural complement to some regular procedure of this lex specialis, of course, some of which are vitlas with the fabulous sums, but never me. And what has been charged today, I also thank some MPs for paying that tax, according to the documents available, says that the law has achieved its goal. Also, when we have this thing, about what a question of another parliamentary group has been asked, that in this way everything that is a crime is simply erased; because someone who has broken the law, just because they have reported the property and started paying taxes, that does not mean in any case that it is not indulgence, it does not mean in any way that they should not respond if they have broken any law; and of course they will not report what they have and that, of course, they cannot explain in any way what legal activities they are drawing their income from. Finally, in Serbia next year, there will be a difference between the vast majority of people who pay at much lower rates, among the lowest in Europe, which is the new balance that we need to find with us for these taxes, and those minorities who in no way want to enter the legal business. And as for books, those who buy books, I think it's a question that we're going to discuss through what week and see, or wonder -- how it's possible that during the previous period some ministries bought thousands of books, some statistics, which was actually funding some political parties, but on that path, it's for a few weeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24158	Thank you. I'm setting a break by 3:00. [[After break 15,40]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please insert identification cards into your MPs to determine the quorum. I figure we have a quorum and we can keep working. The word has a folk MP, Zoran Angelkovic, and the next reported is Zoran Nikolic; Zoran Angelkovic is not present. The word of Zoran Nikolic is: he is not present either! The word has a folk MP Milos Lukic - the word is Zoran Angelkovic. I apologize to Mr. Lukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24160	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs of the government, the New Democracy, as a party to the liberal orientation will not support the bill, as it threatens the interests of private entrepreneurs and threatens to stifle their action. This is not only not in the state interest, but contrary to the Constitution of Serbia because of the proposed retroactivity in the collection and introduction of the responsibility of members of the family of taxpayers. At a meeting of the New Democracy MPs with the representatives of the promoters, the Ministry of Finance, we came to the conclusion that it is a fundamental and conceptual difference: the bill promoter protects exclusively the state interests, while the New Democracy is on the side of citizens and private entrepreneurs, because it is only the best protection and state interests; the representatives of the finance ministry themselves said that around 200,000 private people who are threatened by destruction will find themselves under the influence of this law. This is unacceptable for New Democracy because it is contrary to our true reform definitions and to the belief that the way out of the economic crisis lies precisely in creating the best conditions for the development of the private sector, not for its asphyxiation. The new democracy will continue to put all its programming and personnel capacities in the overall reforms of Serbia and, of course, into total European and Euro-Atlantic integration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24161	The word has a folk MP Milos Lukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24162	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must first note that we do not have a representative of the government and the question is how many discussions without a representative of the Government make sense, given that they should, I suppose, hear what we think, and apply it. As for the proposal for a tax procedure law and tax administration, the minister said this was one of the most important laws; he used the Bible several times, etc. On the other hand, he said that it was done for a whole year, but we all have to agree on one thing: this law did not follow up on a proper public discussion; then, no consultation was made with people who are competent for this matter, because we have to admit that this country has experts in this area and people who have been working for years to collect public income and in the financial police, people who do business in addition to operational work and scientific work are being investigated in this area, and could offer appropriate solutions. The very way this was delivered to us, and you remember that it was with a very short deadline for the amendment, also says that this law needed maltene theft to pass into this assembly, that without much noise was adopted. Surely the area it regulates deserves to be one way to comment. I must also say, in the bill of law, we have no concept of tax administration, no definition of tax police, and later jurisdiction is being discussed, etc. It was not necessary to define what it is, since, in another period, it will intertwine both the competences and all the actions that this authority needs to carry out in relation to other existing authorities in the country. In an adequate way, the group of people to whom this law applies - people who are now working in the Republic Public Revenue Administration; in the financial police; to the Ministry of Finance; to the PDO; to other bodies, etc. These are people whose fate is in some way related to this law, and they've only been hinting at the last months of what will happen when this law comes into force. This law, like many others, has been announced through the media and it seems to have become popular that we are familiar with legal texts, even with the day of the beginning of the session of the Assembly and so on, getting to know each other through the media. We believe that all these people should have been involved in this discussion because it was their destiny. As for the Accounting and Payment Service, we have to agree with the conclusion that the current way of payment through this service is working and that one of the fastest, if we compare ourselves to the countries in the environment. This knowledge of experience and this technique, in some ways, was to be preserved and applied, regardless of the idea, which is in place, to move payment traffic to banks. The fact is that banks are currently not ready to accept this job; we expect that there will be a sure delay in the application of this regulation. Through the media are also mentioned fiscal cash registers, whose price was also talked about. It's something that's got a lot of people worried, because you need to know that there are, say, rural shops that should have this register, which should take years to work to make that profit that they'd set out to buy this register. Several questions arise when it comes to the application of this law; it is mentioned that we have about 7,000 employees in the PDO and about 7,000 employees in the Republic Public Revenue Administration. The question is, who of these people is out of a job, are tax cops just going to be people with high professional training, what's going to happen to people with medium or higher professional equipment? Also, it's not just a political issue, it's one life issue for a large number who is employed in these services. We also have to agree to one finding, which is carried out through all discussions, which is that we should avoid the practice of prescribing crimes by special regulations. This time, we have a situation where this law provides for criminal acts with a suspended sentence for up to 10 years. The opinion of the Soviet Union is that, however, the Criminal Law should be a letter of God, not some other law. Criminal law should codify all criminal acts, because we must also refer to the application of those other laws that prescribed criminal offences, and in practice they have never been imposed. Let us remind ourselves of the Law on the Construction of Objects where punishment has been threatened for up to three years, and so far no proceedings have been carried out, nor has anyone been convicted under this law. Also, when it comes to the formulation of criminal acts, we think, however, that criminal-legal matter is specific; that in the formulation of these crimes and in everything they have to contain, it is not adequately done. In this way, an exception becomes a rule, and we will increasingly have the opportunity to change the Criminal Law, even if certain members are abolished by other special regulations. I'd like to take the opportunity to welcome the minister and his associates. Mr. Minister, on several occasions, and in my personal opinion, simply as a phrase, mentioned an incentive for the economy, mentioned growth in production, new jobs, new equipment, new machines, etc. We don't think we're even close to this situation where the economy, the growth of production, the recovery of agriculture, the resuscitation of the trades. We will easily collect public revenues, and the existing regulations have made it possible. In any case, the passing of one of these laws is not intrusive. We have one public recognition that this law removes certain authorities, and we also have a statement from the minister that the tax police and tax administration will be alive by the end of next year. In practice, we have a whole year of legal vacuum, a situation many can use to hunt in a blurry and I am just afraid that the next landscape from the moment of adoption of this law to its practical application will actually be one vacuum that will allow the state to be significantly impoverished, i.e. that the inflow of public income is not adequate. It is mentioned that the objective of passing the law is a smaller tax rate, and a larger base - is what we all repeated in the discussion of tax regulations, when it was on the agenda. The issue of introducing value added tax has been explained on a flat-rate basis that conditions are only being created and that this will be possible at the end of next year. We, in the Party of Serbian Unity, believe that it is high time, that it is the last moment to introduce value added tax, in fact to prevent tax evasion, because recently there has been a special expression of the appearance of wild or quasi companies, which register to unknown persons, unknown addresses and, very large sums of money being poured out of the state register in this way, and many businessmen have been damaged by the work of these companies. Another finding, which I must point out, is that the minister has taken on many powers by this law. In each other - third member you have an explanation: the minister will prescribe this, the minister will edit it more precisely... etc. If the minister just worked on the realisation of this law, if nothing else were to work, we don't think that one person can handle so much normatively and operationally, and we think there can be a lot of problems if this law, as it were, is generally acceptable and necessary, applied in this way, I don't think it's going to give the right effects. I'd like to ask the minister one more time to answer a few questions I asked, and he wasn't here! What about the labor force that runs out of work? Who's going to work with the IRS? Is the criteria high school ready? Will the people of the PDO stay on the street?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24163	The word has a folk MP, Bozidar Vucurovic, and the next is Marin Kresic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24164	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Minister Djelic has completely broken my concept. I was about to talk about the law, and now I have to talk about what he said in the afternoon session. Says the minister, the tax system is fairer. I say, it's not fairer; because, if it's just, how did those big companies on the extra-profit list get lost in the vacuum, especially those companies that are close to the regime?- I'm sorry. How come the largest extra-profit per all criteria, the National Bank of Yugoslavia, doesn't pay a single dollar in the budget of this poor republic? The National Bank of Yugoslavia bought foreign exchanges in the official course and bought between three and four billion dollars, forcedly, from business entities that, whether imported, exported their goods. She didn't give any dinars to Serbia's budget. Says the minister that he's more transparent...?- I'm sorry. We cannot determine that until, as promised, the law on budget expenditure audit is passed, the law exists everywhere, and until at least once a year, it is notified of the way and dynamics of budget spending. Says the Minister that the tax system is the most attractive among all transition countries?- I'm sorry. That's just not true! Take a look at the rates of tax exemption in countries in transition, in the surrounding countries, and see, besides, the rates of sales in developed countries, which are far lower than our tax rates and how you expect our tax system to attract foreign investment, if foreign partners know about the extra profit law, even though you say in this law that you are about to determine tax or on the basis of assumptions. Although you call it an indicative method, all foreigners know it's an indication of conjecture. According to Minister Djelic, every citizen of Serbia should say: "Yes, I want to pay taxes and be a full member of society. Here I am saying, yes, I want to pay the tax and be a full member of society; in 2000, I pay 800 million dinars in the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and then a new government comes to me, which gives me a new economic environment, far more favourable, so that it makes tax breaks easier, so in 2001 I pay zero dinar tax, and in 2002 even zero dinars of taxes. Did Minister Djelic say this protects taxpayers?- I'm sorry. They're not protecting themselves! Until the tax authorities respect the decisions of the courts, there is no protection of the taxpayer. The financial tax authorities, according to their solution, which does not delay execution, even if you turn to court, take the money off your account, confiscate the mobile and immovable property you have - and then the court makes a different verdict saying it is not tax collection, but a racket, and the financial authorities, of course, do not react at all to that decision, but write that the deblockation of the account, which is actually executed, because interest has been accumulated, does not return the money to your account, does not write off the interest, but keeps you in a blockade and, a successful firm goes bankrupt. You have made this law, or a formal tax system called "cadillac" cadiya sues you, cadiya judges you; both in the first degree and second degree procedure the same organ! If you could at least think of a way to get the Chief Inspector out of the financial or tax police, as you call it, and bring him into the Ministry of Finance, then it could be a different second-degree body. You put this law in the position of superior law against all other laws. That's what the others talked about, and I don't want to talk about it, but the term -- the financial police -- is absolutely inappropriate, and according to the International Monetary Fund's recommendations, it's inappropriate! It's not worth it. I've only got five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24165	The word has a folk MP, Marin Kresic, and the next is a folk MP, Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24166	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the presidency, ministers, I had to draw attention to several, seemingly small matters in this law on behalf of the Democratic Centre. In fact, it is quite certain that taxes should be collected. It is perfectly clear that this should be done decisively, strictly, and in all possible legal and legal ways. It is absolutely certain that this is our way into a civilized world and this law deals with the principles of this tax collection. So institutions and procedures. The institutions in this law are made in a way that we have no reason to suspect that it is designed to function in general; the procedures are mainly designed and the whole law is derived from a deep and large professional work. There's no dispute here. However, the whole law is undergoing a disturbing thread that brings us, as a party that always advocates human rights and civil rights in the first place and for all the principles of democracy, into some sort of doubt. That thread was already made at the very beginning of the law: first, Article 3, in fact, things concerning my property as a citizen, from some judicial sphere, have been transferred to the administrative sphere. It is, in itself, the same possible solution. It's possible to handle things like that. In that case, the entire administrative sphere should be extremely carefully and accurately processed. However, now comes Article 4 which at the start of the law has already justified the discretionary decisions of tax institutions. And here, from the very beginning to the end, is the thread that bothers the whole law. So this processing and this methodology is always based on one man's discretionary judgments, which is not in the same correlation with the system that is this law, which has 200 members, so designed! Why would a man do an assessment of property, why not an independent commission?- I'm sorry. So all the solutions are possible but when they stay on the discretion level, when they stay like a dozen points from Articles 44 and 49; the 44th member defines what a family member can say at all; a member of 49th who defines who can decide on the need for skill in a dispute. Why not just one man, why not always through a procedure that is the basis of democracy throughout our definition as some political options?- I'm sorry. Why is it in cross-judge - which property, which, by which principles, why not a few other members who explain and remove the danger of this discretionary assessment and the possibility of abuse? Why don't you just make a family, why do you always have one strong point that bothers you through the whole law, until the assessment is done by one man on its own. Therefore, in addition to all the essential qualities of the entire law and respecting the efforts of a team that was not in any way in charge of taking care of this other legal and democratic side of things, we have a dilemma of what to do with this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24167	The word has a folk letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic. The next reported word is MP Alexander Vukic (out of town).
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24168	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm really not some tax expert, I've never been obliged to pay any taxes, unfortunately, I'd like to be in a situation where I can pay taxes, but I'm going to put some remarks on this law that regulates the tax procedure and tax administration. There's been a lot of talk about it today, though. Most of the objections were of that kind. What we can't reconcile with is that this law derivates other laws, and that seems to me that they weren't mentioned today, the Law on Fundamentals of Property and Legal Relations, the Law on Liabilities, the Law on Criminal Procedure, and the Law on Criminal Procedure, the Criminal Law today seemed to me, a lot of talk. The arguments for this are already in Article 76(1) of this Act, which regulates the general provisions on interest. The interest can only be at the height of that rate and regulated as regulated by federal law, because the Republic law cannot regulate bonds, and therefore neither interest. Even the Federal Constitutional Court annulled Article 24. The bond law, which regulates this area. Article 90 regulates the execution of the solution. The execution of all the solutions made in the administrative procedure, and this is the kind of administrative procedure, is forced to enforce the court by applying the rules of the Implementing Procedure Act, and here it is proposed that the tax administration does so. We don't think that's good. Furthermore, the Law on the founding of property-legal relations is derivated by the fact that members of the taxpayer's household here are regulated as solid creditors for the taxpayer, although the term "household member" does not exist in the Marriage and Family Act, so we do not know what that means. All members, from Articles 176 to 180, will actually contain one of the crimes contained in the Criminal Law, such as tax evasion, illicit trafficking, prevention of an official's duties. Although the minister said it was for reasons of efficiency, we cannot allow the motive of efficiency to guide us in the adoption of some laws or regulation of some matter. If we want to be efficient, say, in tax collection, then maybe it's most effective for this financial officer to pull out that gun, kill the first taxpayer who didn't pay him or report taxes, and then everyone will pay taxes. But efficiency isn't the only motive we need to be managed by law-making. In the emergency collection procedure, the initial value, in my view, must be limited by market value or by some percentage which should not be less than 50% of the market value, in order to protect both the property rights of the taxpayer and the state, and not that the minister determines the initial value of the immovable property. I don't know which way the minister's gonna do it. In Article 10, it is necessary to give the tax administration the obligation to return the wrongly charged and charged tax, because the tax administration does not have any time limit. It is said to do so, and when it is and how it will do so, it has nothing to do with it, which means it is placed in an unequal position by the taxpayer and the tax administration, and should be equal partners; because we should not forget, however, that the taxpayer is the one who finances the entire state apparatus, and thus also the tax administration. The principle that the tax administration is both a first-degree and a second-degree body is totally unacceptable. That's how it's been so far, though, but that wasn't right. This should in some ways be regulated differently and the second-degree jurisdiction of the court should be ensured. It would be most appropriate to have it in the jurisdiction of the Trade Court. An institute of oral law is being introduced. It's completely inconceivable to me, especially what the minister says -- we need now trained personnel, qualified, those who won't look at books, but will directly with a gun on a hard drive, and can't write one solution. You know, when a record is made, a record is made, then a solution is immediately taken in writing and it is written in the solution: it is up to that and that taxpayer to do so within that and that time period - and not only after three days, when this inspector returns to the headquarters of his inspection, he writes a solution. Then, an inappropriately short deadline is set for the execution of a tax order for a taxpayer, which is three days, which temporarily does not have enough funds in the account, and when the administration has to pay the taxpayer the difference between the price achieved by selling movable goods and its tax liability, then it is 30 days and there is no interest. She keeps the money, and she stays with the taxpayer, in fact, just to raise her hands up when the tax inspector comes to him, to leave himself to his doubts and to be at the mercy of the tax administration.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24169	The word is by MP Miroljub Veljkovic. It's the last application for a word; the remaining time the SRS is four and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24170	Dear People's MPs, it is perfectly understandable to me that the state intends to codify the procedure for determining the collection and control of public revenues. It is perfectly understandable that the state intends to create an effective tax administration. It's understandable both from the state and from someone wider, if you can say the social point of view, and it's commendable to Mr. Minister. It is also clear that the current way of determining the collection and control of public revenues has been quite anachronous and that this should have been changed, especially in light of the abolition of the PDO and the transfer of payment traffic to commercial banks since 1 January 2003. So this is clear and I welcome the intention of this state administration. The state's efforts to suppress the gray economy significantly, or as it is said professionally, tax ejaculation, are not disputed either. Normally, that's something to be commended. For the SRS parliamentary group, however, it is an extremely controversial economic environment in which the tax administration law is passed. The real motives of passing this law and this set of amendments and supplementing tax laws are contentious. Not these proclaimed motives we've heard from the minister and the bill promoter, they're the real motives. I'd like to say something about that. First, the government's policy of monetary restrictions, which is not a government policy among us, but rather the policy and pressure of the International Monetary Fund -- your policy, the government's policy of harsh fiscal expansion, literally the Serbian economy is pushed into an unprecedented recession. We are witnesses, we all witness an unprecedented recession that exists in our economy. The economic activity in the country is completely dead. The consequences of such policies are first seen in the social sphere, and this is a general poverty of the population. Now these controversial changes in tax laws will not give any effect, in the economy, or in the rise of population standards. We warned you at that time, when you created such a policy and from this assembly booth that the economy was being burdened, so, external isolation for ten years -- and, the economic burden of a terribly debt crisis, I mean internal debt, is not going to hold that projected, so on. Your shock therapy. And, unfortunately, you didn't listen to us then, and now we have that famous situation, I mean the Serbian economy when I say, the patient's exhale, the patient's dead, but that's why the surgery, that's why this shock therapy worked. Then we have the fact that the public spending projection for 2003 is terrifying. I use this term on purpose -- terrifying. This government is planning public spending, which is where I warn you, at the state level, of the incredible 8 billion euros! When I say public spending, I mean the Republic budget, I mean federal budgets, fund budgets, and I mean local self-government budgets. Eight billion euros -- I really don't know where this government and this state administration thinks they're picking up that money. From this economy in a recession like this, and from this impoverished population?- I'm sorry. I am absolutely certain that this will not be possible from these sources, but will normally come from the privatisation of the Serbian economy, the new borrowing, etc. And so the budget gaps will be patched up...! Furthermore, it is said in an explanation that this tax administration law will cut down the grey economy, or prevent tax ejaculation. I'd love to, but unfortunately, it's just a dream come true and I'm free to say, elemental ignorance. I call upon Mr. Minister or any of you from the ruling group to tell me in which state the state administration has succeeded, by administrative law and administrative measures, to prevent the gray economy in a single market economy? From this pay phone, let him tell me where he is, and when it's done. The alphabet of public finances that can be done exclusively by system solutions in the tax sphere means one radical cut in the tax sphere; this radical cut, ladies and gentlemen, in our country, is called the introduction of a tax on additional value. I know that Mr. Minister knows that, and why this tax is introduced, I can only assume - for the sake of interest, the great interests of certain influential groups. And finally, I will be free to give one dubious assessment of the economic environment in the country, the ambience in which the government proposes a tax administration law, amendments and additions to tax laws: recession, misery, poverty; frightening public spending, fined reforms and a minimal shift in the introduction of the real market economy! It continues to be ethical -- bureaucratic economic governance, like 20, 30 or 50 years ago. (President: I warn you of overstepping allowed time. ) I end up, Mrs. Micic; an incredibly small shift in the privatisation process, a major foreign debt to patch up budget gaps, etc.! So that's the ambience! And just one piece of information to tell you all relevant indicators say that Serbia, of all transition countries in Europe, and there are 15 of them, who have completed the transition process or are beginning, is in that last 15th place, and may the Minister deny me that it is not! So that's what all the indicators are saying. And finally, just for a little while, what's the motive? The motive is clear, not something radical, not reform, motive is to extend the lifetime of this state administration! We Serbian radicals believe that this is a bad path and that the chosen path is both fatal for public and state finances, and for the citizens of this country. All the efforts of this country and these administrations need to be directed towards increasing economic activity, raising standards; so, when the expansion starts, we will easily find a method, a methodology to fill the state register. And what our people say - no bull is slaughtered for 100 grams of meat.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24171	Since there are no more statements on the lists of parliamentary groups, I ask if the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups who have not used this right, want a word? Please, the word is by MP Petar Petrovic, the authorised representative of the Serb Unity Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24172	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, on behalf of the MPs' Club of the Party of Serbian Unity, I will take for myself the right to make certain remarks that we, as a Parliament club, have on this law and for which we will certainly not support this law in principle. In the opening statement, you spoke of the reasons for the adoption of this law, i.e. to enter into the congregation procedure, and you and your wishes expect this law to be adopted. You said not to say much, that it was a holy letter and so forth! I have not heard from your presentation any reason why this law should be passed by emergency procedure because if this session hadn't been postponed last Tuesday, this law would probably have been passed by emergency procedure, although the basic and legal conditions and conditions of the Rules of Procedure of this assembly have not been met in order to pass the law under this procedure. However, the MPs of this congregation were reasonable, so they did not accept the proposed agenda at that time, and here we entered into some regular procedure for the adoption of ovaxacone. You're talking about reasons, and you didn't mention the Ministry of Finance anywhere -- and with some other ministries to create an economic and economic environment for this country so that it can be done and earned, so that it can be paid on a regular basis. She's a poor government, according to us from the Soviet Union, who only wants to get her hand in the pocket of taxpayers and fill her budget. You should, I repeat, create conditions to earn, work and earn, so that you can pay extra taxes and then you wouldn't need these sanctions that are provided here for tax evasion. I will, in my presentation, because the MPs of the Soviet Union have already spoken a lot about this law, just point to some illogicalities of some members in this proposed text of the law. First, when it comes to Article 76. - You're talking about interest, and there you wrote one in point one, I can read you, I've consulted some, say so economists who do a lot of work in that area, and they couldn't say the least to give immediate interpretation of what they wanted. However, in paragraph 4, of that same article, you wrote: "on the amount of more tax paid and the subsequent tax duties, interest shall be calculated at the end of 30 days from the date of receipt of the refund claim". I ask the question: if someone does not apply for more tax refund, will the state never return it to him for 30 days? So, the state wants to steal from the taxpayer, if she doesn't, on official duty, care whether someone has paid more taxes and has to pay him back, because that's equality between taxpayers and the state, as controllers, whether or not the tax is paid. On the other hand, why didn't you predict somewhere or I might not have seen it, that the state compensates with the taxpayers have reached tax obligations. In fact, we have a case that the state owes farmers nearly 20 pensions, it's a government obligation, and you're going to take tomorrow to the taxpayer, a farmer who's not able to pay his taxes, to take out the TV and to... If that's what it's got, then all right... Then I take it back, I haven't seen it, I apologize if I haven't seen it. I think it's an obligation, and it means you've accepted the Soviets' suggestion since last year when we suggested it, as I recall. Furthermore, my suggestion refers to a member of 103 where it is said that the state has the right to charge for the arrival of claims on the property of members of the household. Since we have two types of terminology, what is household, household in a narrow sense, and household in a broader sense?- I'm sorry. What are you trying to say here, what is meant by housekeeping in a narrow sense is done by parents and children, in a broader sense, which is often the case in Serbia, by children, parents, fathers and mothers, grandparents, etc.?- I'm sorry. And do you want, Mr. Minister, that the next day to some kid who got a gift from abroad, usually so, some valuable thing, is it a television, video, tape recorder, not to mention, do you want to take that gift on behalf of a tax payer, because his father wasn't able to settle his tax liability to the state? You'd have to answer that question.- I'm sorry. In article 165, you wrote (for the sake of the general public and Serbian citizens I would have to read it), Mr. Minister, you and your ministry suggest that it be adopted, and it will likely be: "The tax police inspector has the right and the duty to hold and carry official weapons. The Act on the Official Weapons of the IRS Inspector is brought by the minister." Is that what the finance minister of the Republic of Serbia wants to take over the powers that the MUP has, because it determines who has the right to carry a gun, issue a permit, etc? You wrote here that the tax inspector has a "and duty" - what does that mean if there are tax inspectors who are now working in the Republic Public Revenue Administration, who have a reluctance to the weapons? They're especially members of a gentler, more beautiful sex, and they don't want to carry guns. Are they gonna have to carry guns, or are they gonna lose their jobs? You have to answer that question! And in particular, there was talk about this law that you wanted to regulate criminal-legal matter, which cannot be regulated at all by this law, as a special law, because there is a criminal law of the Republic of Serbia, which regulates and prescribes criminal acts and criminal measures, or sanctions for perpetrators of crimes committed. You, among other things, wrote in article 179 in the last position: "If, when the act of Article 1 and 2 of this article is carried out, the perpetrator deprives the life of the official, he will be punished by imprisonment for at least ten years or 40 years in prison." I think there's a crime of murder in the Republic of Criminal Law and there's a crime (in paragraphs 2, 3 and 4.) A particularly difficult circumstance, if the life is deprived of the official face. Therefore, why double this if it already exists in the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia! I think the Ministry of Finance also takes the right to solve some matter, which is not necessary, and cannot possibly be envisaged and resolved by this law. For these and other reasons, the parliamentary group, or MPs, will not support this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24173	The Minister of Finance, Mr Bozidar Djelic, called for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24174	Madam President, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, this is the end of this bill's debate in principle and I want to thank all those who have discussed it first. I must say, in the last two years, this has been one of the most constructive discussions we've had on board, and this time at the session. I'd like to do it very briefly, before we move on to considering this law in particular, and before we move on to amendments, to indicate a few things that have been heard here. The first question was, what's going to happen to the PDO? By the end of this month, we will also propose to you a proposal to amend and supplement the Budgetary System Act, which will be a pandan, this time on the bulky side of this law. This will suggest making one public payment administration, where those functions that the PDO today performs, in the form of accounting, keeping accounts and records, and some other functions, are presented to that organization. This will complete the whole picture of the future of people working in the PDO today and what will be in that structure. And to make it clear, in no case at all, because there have already been stories about it, but it's already in a few weeks, it won't reduce the autonomy of local self-government, nor its authority in terms of their resources. So it won't be some recentralization, as it is heard here and there, but as far as the PDO is concerned, I don't think there's any reason for social breakdowns, that they're good specialists. Their future is either in the tax administration, and that mainly concerns people working on ex-ante control, or people who are inspectors, who were ex-post controls, who are going to do this this time as tax inspectors. One number of them will be employed in this newly established public payments administration, and not only that; one number of them (and at this point it is now done, as in all other republics of the former SFRY) will be employed in banks, because if banks are to make payments, they also need people who know they are doing that payment traffic. Finally, a number of people will be employed in what will be payment traffic between banks and will be one service at the National Bank of Yugoslavia, and tomorrow Serbia, and several smaller organisations, as a bond centre, and of course there will be a little more words on Sundays to come. Of course, it's all done on time, so everything's ready in time. I'd say so much about what's going to happen to the PDO people. As for compensation and discretion, since it was one very important thing, I have to say that today's law is simple, so monolithic that it does not reflect at all what is the reality of Serbia, and that is the inherited great indifference of one number of businessmen and therefore we have constant pressure to make some payment through compensation or something else. The problem is that there is such discretion, which is within the meaning of Article 3. (as for the gentleman from the Democratic Centre) that it is not the goal of increasing discretion, of course, is that this discretion, which is simply inevitable in a normal tax system, and especially in Serbia's system, is regulated as it is here. We've also heard some criticism that this law is insane, that there are too many things that could be found in some sublegal act here and there. However, given what was inherited, I think it's not bad to start with this rather extensive legal matter, so that as little discretion as possible is left on the shoulders of the executive authority. Believe me, this is not only how we avoid corruption, although this is the key reason why it is done, but it greatly reduces the enormous pressure of lobbying and trying some economic operators to reach a slightly better position towards some others. For this reason, it seems to me that this way is done, such that, not only have we very clearly defined in the law discretion, but also for everything that is closer to it, it goes to the government and it goes to the publication, and of course it will be published in our "Official Messenger"; and it will never be an individual solution, but within one criterion, something that is decided in one collective way. That way, I'm sure, we'll have a good balance between the necessary degree of something that's a living system, a living being, and avoiding privileges for some, at the expense of others. As for the administrative procedure, first-degree, second-degree, I can say that it's a practice in many countries and for decades it's been a practice with us -- is it in some future, when things work better in our judicial system, can we review it again? Maybe, but today we're just not mature! That's my responsibility. It hasn't come yet. As far as the interest issues are concerned, interest in this case is not a matter of bonds. This is a public-law relationship. Indeed, it is determined by federal law, but it is a question that will be groundless very soon, given what has already been established and voted most of it in the Constitutional Charter. If we look at the last two things that seem to me to be still subject to discussion here, from the government's point of view we've had some consultations during this break, I'd say what attitude might, I think, lead to consensus, and in particular. As for Article 103, I want to draw your attention to several elements: imagine that we do not have a member 103 and see what happens then, and how will the Tax Administration not be able to make a forced payment? Our experience already shows it, and not only that, this provision already exists. So this provision, in no case, came out of the work of this law, but out of practice. The discussion we had, not only with our tax collectors, shows, if you look a little closer, that it does not apply to what is in the general administrative procedure itself excluded from this process. Translated in Serbian -- that minimum will never be looted. This concerns only property which is not appointed. So when we get to the car, it's already named and it's not the subject of this law. There's one more thing I haven't pointed out, but maybe that's what's missed and it's very important if you're looking at moving things one of the problems in our system is that the state has great privileges. So she literally plays by other rules of the game about moving things. I hear very often from businessmen, from banks, that one of the key problems of development is mortgages and stocks on moving things, which are huge rights, and that's the truth, which the state has on these moving things. If you look at this law, you will see that it is preparing and creating an environment for the law that the Government of the Republic of Serbia adopted a few weeks ago and forwarded to you for eventual adoption, which is a law on supply. Here you will see, in this draft, and also in what is foreseen here, that the state is going back and that it, like all other entities who want to claim a moving thing, has to be entered, just like any other economic operator. It's a whole philosophy and this ambience that's being established here and that law that's closer to regulating that matter, which has proved to be very important for the continued launch of credit operations by banks, the possibility of our entrepreneurs coming to credit and, globally, to the development of the market economy. Because I'd say that there's a lot of interference in the bonding relationship that the state can suddenly appear and simply erase all those who signed in, their turn, and that it literally comes to the door first when something needs to be reconciled. The government of the Republic of Serbia heard those arguments. You already have the elements in this law, and the law that is closer to the regulation of this matter is already envisaged, I hope that it will be voted in this house through a few weeks. I'd say so much about this article 103. He is simply a minimum that must exist in Serbia today. Otherwise, believe me, it's gonna be hard to make a forced payment, and of course there's nothing more important than freedom and justice. However, one other thing that may often be neglected by us is - some obligations. If you look at a legally regulated procedure in many other countries, where perhaps less taxes enter in a forced way, you will see that they have absolutely similar provisions; although in our environments they have these provisions, then I think we should have them too. Finally, I would say one more thing if at the bottom of the hall they wanted to hear a little more, it concerns a provision that shows that this law school in Serbia is still very much alive and that what our tradition is and how present. Simply put -- the key reason why we predicted in this law a number of crimes is because without such crimes this law would not make sense. There would be one legal gap and literally, although it's hard to estimate it, but about 70-80% of the effects of this law, if it didn't have these provisions, it wouldn't be! There's been a lot of talk about it. That's why, at this point, we suggest that it be in this law. There is, of course, another question, which is related but can also fit, and that is -- where do these provisions have to be found? Of course, if our concern was that there would be one legal gap, as has happened, unfortunately, in some other initiatives, where some material or procedural matter would be voted, and what should be a criminal provision or some new criminal act, that it was not voted upon, so it is extremely important for us to be prepared and clear. That's why I ask you to support this and not vote on those amendments that suggest erasing it. On the other hand, there is what is our tradition, and believe not even from the point of view of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and there is no reason for me personally not to respect that tradition and not to strengthen our legal order, where the criminal code should be comprehensive. The obligation we take on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia today, and in my own personal capacity, is that by the end of this regular session we will adopt at the Government of the Republic of Serbia and pass on to this home not only changes in the criminal code, which will allow these provisions to be "relocated" to the criminal code, but to extend the issue a little bit, to all those issues concerning the work of my ministry. Of course, we'll do it with the Department of Justice, but you have our engagement that will happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24175	Are you reporting as deputy member of the parliamentary group? Here's a word from MP Dragan Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24176	I'll pick up where I left off. It is this: this law will continue, regardless of the good attempt, leave a lot of the state's income in the gray zone. So many incomes will in no way, as this tax procedure and the work of the authority of the administration is imagined, make something more significant in the field of coverage of the gray zone. First of all, we're talking about some parafiscal phenomena in society. In one essential thing, we find ourselves in the gross product of Serbia's economy almost 50% of gross products past taxation. As it is known that the area of agriculture participates in the social gross product with about 50%, and I'm not talking about small producers, farmers, but I'm talking about people who absolutely control the purchase of agricultural products! A lot of these controls are in banks and everything is past the state's income zone. I do not believe that one of these, in the past year, has reported total income from the area, I mean income from profits under the Company Tax Act, or individuals who control the area have reported income under the Law on Income Tax. We heard that only about 3,000 people filed an application for the total income of citizens. I don't agree that everyone who earned in the gray zone couldn't and couldn't be taxed or their income can't be determined. It is known in all local environments, including here in Belgrade, that a significant part of the income of certain groups is greening; and Criminal Law and this matter treats the area seriously. They're huge financial resources and they're absolutely in a gray zone, past bank control. It's only cash, and it's known, it's a public secret, that that money is sold at 10% and 20% on the monthly level, respectively. It's all behind the level of taxation. Neither this law foresees nor will it be able to predict the way and control of all this. I have to say one more thing: I don't think it's good because of the future of privatisation and the survival of this law in a good way, that there's no origin of money in the privatisation sector; people who privately buy businesses and get special, let me say credit, and we'll see in the next laws and tax relief when it comes to, first of all, corporate tax, which will create conditions that are really very easy in the next five or six years to buy out this huge social capital that's real for years. I was talking about the tax identification number, like there wasn't a tax number! There's a tax number, and each of us, if he can remember, knows his tax number in the IRS. It is not the point of whether you will get a tax identification number that will in itself not have any kind of control; if you do not control the bottom of that process, if you do not control the registration, organisation, change of owners, founders and persons available to businesses. All this suggests that this legislative proposal will not, as it is said, bring about the effects that are important to this country. I think tax policy is one of the most important factors of stability and the future of this country. I have the impression that the tax bureaucracy that served us in the past, and it serves us now and in this time, has controlled us very well, and today it controls this kind of government, not allowing us to seriously dive into one of the essential areas so that we can serve the basic needs of the population. I think in this way, without saying, radical reforms and a number of other regulations -- a reform in the tax area could be divided into at least 50 specific categories, each of which would have a significant part of the legislation of other matter, where it must be applied to one tax practice. If the control functions are not united, and it is seen here that they will not be, they will remain on several levels of different types of control, where the taxpayers will continue to meet different ministries for their obligations in different ways. It'll get from different inspections or control solutions. It has never happened in practice, and it will not happen now, that three solutions are merged in one body and that the total obligation of a taxpayer is respected. I'm talking about it because it's not good and it's not good, it's not good for the state, for the state's income. If the importance and portion of the income I've been talking about is still in the gray zone, and it's going to be in that gray zone, whether we want to admit it or not! if significant economic areas are located completely outside of tax matter, where huge revenues are made, and do not show in the final account; and for some where, especially in the area of agriculture, it is interesting to process 200 hectares of land, because through and thus through accounting and other material business to show, or significant parts of their investments to cover up, showing them as investment in production, simply, we will not be able to have one absolute control of money flows; I mean, at this stage, it already significantly helps and unfinished banking system. If payment traffic is transferred to banks, just to accept that kind of income that belonged to the PDOs at an earlier stage or control accounts in some other scale, I don't think we're going to achieve any real effects. This must monitor the reduction of interest rates for the development of the economy, the promotion of the economy in full terms, because there is neither full tax reform nor tax betrayal, if the economy does not grow, and especially if interest policy is controlled in the banking system. All the other details that speak of individual, and I would say, there are also good details that go into the depth of the tax payer's behaviour and the rights to be owned by one tax officer, indicate that it is going, in one sense, to create conditions for an ordinary tax officer to become a real tax officer who will be protected by as many states as possible. These are mostly unprotected, good and professional people. I don't agree that there was no training or that they weren't dressed or that they didn't know what to do. It's a pretty well-trained service, all they have to do is give them the authority and the ability to do their job the right way. In the end, I want to say that we, as people's socialists at this stage, will remain abstention when it comes to this law, for the simple reason why we don't see full tax reform. If we wait in the next five, six years for tax reform to happen, I think it'll be too late for this country's future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24177	No more sign-ins for the word. I'm finishing the initial search. In accordance with Article 136(3) of the Financial Regulation, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. A word by Business has been requested by the deputy member of the DOS parliamentary group - Serbia's Reform National MP Sinisa Mitrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24178	Dear President Micic, honourable fellow Members, in accordance with Article 137. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I suggest that the time for discussion under the amendments lasts three minutes. I give an explanation that it is quite enough and effective for the right arguments and for a good debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24179	Thank you. I would like to put to the vote the proposal of MP Sinisa Mitrovica to limit the debate in detail to three minutes. For 133, against 12, one abstention, did not vote 21, out of 167 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal of the MP Sinisha Mitrovica. On Article 3 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Alexander Vukic and Milorad Stanulov submitted. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the promoter want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24180	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, it's interesting: ever since they signed an agreement with the government of Zoran Djindjic, those of the DSS are just looking at an opportunity to leave the room. As far as this amendment is concerned, I have submitted an amendment to the proposal for a tax procedure and tax administration. In Article 3. Paragraph 1 of the bill is deleted, which states: "If the second law is a question from an area governed by this law in a different way, the provisions of this law shall apply." The law must taxively specify the provisions of other laws which cease to apply to it by way of its entry into force. The laws are passed in the same way, they are equal and such a general provision of one law cannot derivate the unknown provision of another. In fact, there's a very logical question here. We are otherwise known, as a country, and not only in this period in the last two years, since the DOS government, but in the previous period we have passed many laws that complemented the basic laws that existed in certain areas, and we have the most widespread so-called. It is not by any chance difficult to assume what no one alive can do today in legal norms, which contain different laws, different even in their nature, and treat the same matter. So it even happens to us that we have criminal-legal norms, not in one criminal-law code, but in even more than 30 individual laws. Here is the question which law will be considered general or general law, which will be considered so-called. Special or special, so that you can apply the famous rule of back specialis derogat legi generals, because in this case you can't say that it's some back specialis, which you'll be able to derrogate, abolish, declare the invalid norms of some other laws, which are less general, or specifically related to certain matter. So it would be, and above all because of the need for such standards to be abolished, that we finally know that we have everything in one law, as far as the tax administration is concerned, as far as the tax administration is concerned, in criminal law, that we have everything in relation to criminal and legal norms, its sanctions, that we also know very clearly and precisely what norms apply, that those norms don't apply. If we do not do so, it seems to me that we will continue to build up legal norms and that everyone will interpret them in the way he wants them and that we will never be able to know to the end what is truly true, and what is what can be applied to whom and how it fits.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24181	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? The word has been made by the People's MP Milorad Stanulov, the applicant of the amendments in the same text.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24182	The President-in-Office, honourable MPs, Article 3 of the Law contains two positions. The first position determines the position of the law in relation to the whole of the legislation, and the second position determines the position of this law in relation to the general administrative procedure. I have proposed an amendment to delete Article 1 in Article 3 and to make Article 2 point 1. The fact that this back specialis derivates a general regulation from the administrative procedure is acceptable, given the nature of the law, but there is a reasonable doubt that this law is declared superior and above the other regulations in the legal order. The reasoning given by the government deserves to be found in the very text of the law. Therefore, the conflict of laws in parallel validity is opened, which can lead to legal uncertainty or contrary to the intentions of the law, to the situation that civil and state relations in the tax system are regulated in judicial decisions, based on judicial free belief. The proposed law is not comprehensive and clear in terms of procedural provisions, because if it predicates to the codification in the tax procedure, the law also leaves that the collection of income tax remains subject to the Income Tax Act, the collection of property tax remains under the Property Tax Act and the like.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24183	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? The word is by MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24184	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we can only assume what led the legislator to write such a general provision and to assume one law to all other laws, in which it could happen to regulate the area regulated by this bill, but also the legislator made a contradiction between Articles 2 and 3. It's a bill of law. In Article 2(1), the Proposer states that this law applies to all public revenues charged by the tax administration, if other tax laws are not otherwise regulated, and in Article 3(1) says - if the other law is a matter covered by this law, otherwise, the provisions of this law apply. Are we now going to apply the provisions of other laws under Article 2(1) or are we going to apply the provisions of this law under Article 3(1)? The legislator tried the last provision of the Bill's proposal to specify taxfully all the laws and their members that cease to apply to this law, but it is obvious that in the Serbian Government we do not have enough professional people to point out all the laws in which this bill is mixed, and so is one general provision that the National Assembly accepts that one decision, by its decision to make this tax law, repeal its decisions, equally important, on the adoption of some other laws, which is possible if the National Assembly knew exactly what law it refers to and what member of it. This behaviour of the government of the Republic of Serbia, under which it forces the National Assembly to repeal unknown members of unknown laws, is unacceptable for the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group, as before the laws are passed in the same way, the same majority and have the same importance. Therefore, if the provisions of the type are otherwise regulated, this will be applied or if it is regulated by another law, this is not applicable, the bill cannot pass. A team before they can't repeal the provisions of the Criminal Code like this with general provisions. She had the National Assembly of Time, she had the Government of the Republic of Serbia of Time. These several crimes, tax crimes, to be the subject of amending and supplementing the Criminal Code, to adopt both laws at the same session, to sign this President of your Republic and to make them both effective by publishing in the same number of "The Official Messenger", and then there would be no legal gap and there would be no misunderstanding of what is being applied. Only now, interpreting Article 2 and Article 3, will we be in great doubt, when, in any case the law applies, and then the tax administration will most likely apply its discretionary powers, so it will decide for itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24185	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miroljub Veljkovic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The word is by MP Miroljub Veljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24186	I suggested that you be in Article 4. The draft law deletes Article 2 and this Article 2 in Article 4. The bill literally says: "In cases where the tax administration is authorised to act on the basis of discretionary powers, it is required to act with the purpose of these powers and within the framework of the law." First, the wording itself is catastrophic, and it asks several essential questions. What discretionary authority? When they mention discretionary powers, they associate me at those times, these old ones remember, socialist times, so you remember that they apply for a passport, and then the police have discretionary powers not to give him a passport. The second question is, who gives the IRS these discretionary powers? Is that Minister Djelic? Is that someone from the government? What is most fundamentally, what is the purpose of these discretionary powers? In this regard, I propose that Article 2 of this law be deleted and that all its rights, obligations and powers of the tax administration be deleted, very simple, very simple and legal, in accordance with the Constitution and the law, precisely with this tax administration law, and not on the basis of any discretionary powers. I would therefore ask to be answered by these three questions: what are the discretionary powers of the tax administration, who is authorised to give discretion to the tax administration and what is the purpose of these discretionary powers.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24187	Anyone else want a word? The word has been made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24188	I don't know what motivated the legislator to even mention discretion here. All powers of members of the tax police or any tax authority are regulated by law. The purpose of these powers is to act in accordance with the law. By widely interpreting this member of the bill, a tax officer can say - I have the discretionary right to draw a gun because it is the purpose of taxing. What does that mean, when you have a general provision that someone will act in accordance with the law, which is not enough for you, but you add to it - and act in accordance with discretionary powers, if they say, "it acts according to the purpose of these powers". With this fourth member, we are slowly entering that dark villa and we do not know what the charge of the tax will look like in the future. The government is this law that scares taxpayers. So they will act in accordance with discretionary powers, not with legal powers; they will act according to the purpose of authority (the purpose is, apparently, to collect taxes) and be armed. The government itself, instead of charging taxes, is forcing people to think about what that tax bill will look like in the future. Why, he owes us a reason here. Isn't it enough that someone will act in accordance with the law? The government in response to the amendment says it is understood that no action is allowed that is not in accordance with the law. That'd be enough. However, the government later says, "On the contrary, this provision puts these two things next to each other, in order to ensure the principle of compliance with the law and when, in the nature of things, certain issues are inevitably decided and discreetly." Any discretionary decision must comply with the law. Now what do you predict of the one you give discretionary authority to, what right? Is this perhaps the legal formulation that was in place after World War II in the new Yugoslavia, and it says - it is concluded that he and he died in the presence of the government. Then it was no longer investigated, because the government was there when the man died and there was no further investigation. These are your discretionary powers. It would be good for the government to accept the amendment. The purpose, the meaning of the law and the conduct will not change at all, and one ambiguity from the law will be erased.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24189	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Vucurović. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The word has a National MP, Bozidar Vucurovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24190	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 5 says: "The tax liability is determined on the basis of the regulations that were in force at the time of its creation." It's okay. It's stuck behind that, so it says "unless, in accordance with the Constitution and the law, certain provisions of the law are intended to have a return fact". In my amendment, I asked that, after this sentence, the tax liability be determined on the basis of the rules which were in force at the time of its creation, to put an end to and to delete for the rest of the sentence the text which determines that certain provisions of the law can be assumed to have a feedback. The taxpayer must have legal certainty at the time of creation and at the time of reconciliation of the tax liability. This is the basis for the creation of business policy, investment policy, spending policy and any other policy of the economic operator. If you think you're going to attract foreign investment by giving every law or piece of the law a retroactive fact, you're wrong. After all, if only you had said what provisions of this law could have a return fact, a retroactive fact, and we could accept it. But you say "specific provisions of the law" like that. What is this, for example, an individual provision of the law? It may be that I have now paid sales tax at a valid rate... (loud from O.R.: And you're not.) I did, sir. That's not what you Kladov people pay taxes for because you're close to the authorities, and we have to. ... So you're going to retroactively say -- now you've paid, but you're going to have to pay 20% more, because now we need a little more money. The constitution only allows the retroactivity of the law in certain cases, and it does not allow such a broad interpretation that certain provisions of the law can have a retroactive fact. What specific provisions?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24191	Anyone else want a word? The word has been made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24192	The question is what kind of message we send to those who will be taxpayers in Serbia in the future. That's where I think of both our citizens and the foreigners you say will invest huge money in our economy, privatisation, in various ways, money that will then be fertilized, and it will result in a tax liability. What is this message when we say that the tax liability is determined on the basis of the regulations that apply at the time of its creation. Instead of putting an end to it, we say, "unless certain provisions of the law are intended to have a feedback." Now I ask you what law? If at least he had written a bill promoter, since he deals with this law - if certain provisions of this law do not provide for a feedback, then let us determine them by voting on each member for whom a feedback is provided, that would be acceptable. But the bill promoter says -- you'll be taxpayers, we'll make a commitment to you, and then we'll be able to figure out which law again and again and again and by who knows which way, perhaps in any change of government, to redefine your tax liability. Now that principle is not applied in a different attitude. In the second position, it deviates from all the laws, and says, "The activities in the tax procedure are regulated by the regulations that are in force at the time they are taken." Do you know, Mr. Minister, that always applying what is milder and that one action that was not provided for at the time when the collection process began should not be applied, but that action is applied, in criminal law a milder punishment is applied, although the law may have changed in the meantime, but the procedure for a single act that had been provided for a minor sentence. So, when you pay taxes, I can predict at any time that I'm going to increase that tax for you, and when I apply the measures to you, then I apply those measures that apply when I apply them. That doesn't really tell the taxpayer that you appreciate him at all. You just appreciate the money that gets into the government's register, and who's gonna get you that money? The ones who are more afraid to invest and invest? Those who don't know what tax is? It's like if a farmer sold a cow at the market for 500 marks and after a month came to what he bought and said, hey, you owe me another 100 marks, which I did a little appraisal of that cow of mine. Or, as if the Traffic Safety Act had predicted that from now on, a red light would be passed, and everyone who has gone green for five years to pay the fine according to the new law, and yet to be beaten, so they say, the procedure that is now in force is applied, so they catch and beat the people. That is the principle applied in this legislation. That's why our remarks, we need this law, there's a lot of things that can be fixed by amendments, and we have a great law, but we can't even have cowboy law, and we can't look at just one side of the medal, just to charge. It must be possible for those who pay and must be treated as a human being, because he is funding this state; and here in this assembly, we are being financed by those who are preparing to take your skin off your back.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24193	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? If not, we move on to Article 7. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Rajko Baralic, Ljubomir Mucic, Nebojsa Jovic, Zivodarka Dacin, Radojko Petric, Hranislav Peric and Milan Jankovic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Do any of the applicants of the amendment want a word? They're not here. ( b) Does any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament of the People Gordana Pop-Lazic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24194	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Article 8, is actually a principle of this law, the principle of good faith. It is said in the tax procedure that the parties to the tax procedure, meaning the taxpayer and the tax administration, or financial officers, are obliged to treat each other in good faith. In paragraph 2, the frequency and duration of tax controls shall be limited to the necessary extent. The amendment requires that this position 2 be deleted because the tax administration is limited by law. If she is already limited by law, then she cannot be left with the right to assess the degree of limitations. The term itself - necessary measures, doesn't mean anything at all. It is once again one discretionary right for someone to assess what is necessary, and what is the excess of that necessary measure. Our president has a discretionary right to say something, so one MP for something she doesn't like saying says he says he's taking a disfellowshipping from the session, and another, like Aci Stefanovic, who hit SPS MP Rajko Baralic yesterday, doesn't say the same thing. So we get into a situation as soon as you leave someone to decide for themselves what is necessary to abuse it. We know what it looks like today. A financial officer, this current financial inspection, comes into tax control with a taxpayer and says -- that I wouldn't look at you a little bit more detail about what you have, books, and you say -- hard drives will look at yours, 400 euros in my pocket, lunch, and you have a criminal sentence here, or a fine of 2,200 dinars. That's what your tax collectors and other fiscal taxes do today. But when you say they should treat each other in good faith, that means that a taxpayer needs to trust a tax officer when he comes and says, "Please, open the drawers, open the books, give that computer; the taxpayer grabs the drawer, and the tax officer thinks he's gonna pull the gun out of the drawer, and then he repeats the gun, and we have -- what -- abuse of authority. But unfortunately, in these provisions of your law, where you provide for criminal penalties, Minister, you have provided no criminal punishment for an official person, and it is possible that it exists. As far as I can tell, you didn't. The tax officer, again, should treat the taxpayer in good faith, however, we have seen from later provisions that and when the taxpayer suspects this goes to the expense of the taxpayer. So, the principle as a principle, let's believe each other, could survive, but this second attitude should absolutely be deleted and I'm not satisfied with the government's explanation where it's said that the criteria of the necessary measures are not in any way direct quantification, which is, but it still excludes any frequency and duration of tax control that would go beyond a certain minimum measure -- yet an undefined explanation for one completely undefined concept, and therefore we're looking for an erasing of this other attitude.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24195	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the deputy president of the parliamentary group, MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24196	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is where the two positions of Article 8 should be commented. It's a bill of law. The first point is: "Parties in the tax procedure", and it is defined as taxpayers and tax administrations, "they are obliged to act in good faith". And now, that principle of bona fides should apply to both sides, in plural is attitude. However, Article 52 says that the tax administration has no faith in the taxpayer at all, approaches him with mistrust, fears that he will cheat; even when he suspects that he will cheat on her, and the doubt is not proven, he will be at the expense of whoever caused the suspicion. Article 67 says - when the tax administration suspects that a tax payer to tax evasion may prohibit him from having the property; and there is no right to the other side which also has a good faith and which would be obliged to act on the principle of good faith. Then why do we say good faith? This is where the state enforces the coercion. Article 2 is interesting because it should be tied to Article 4 which we spoke of earlier, which speaks of discretionary powers. Discretionally, it is, then, the authority of the tax administration to determine the necessary measure to carry out tax control and the lack of good faith, but when they rely on someone, when they decide to shut him out of business, they don't find it difficult to bring in from other cities the financial police, to God knows not the taxpayer, so he will perform more correctly, it's not hard for them for days, it's not hard for them to carry out business books and keep him for two years, three years, here, I know, our Bozidar was held by the financial police for three years by business books and he couldn't work. You can laugh as much as you want, you're here to vote, to receive an MP's salary, and that's where someone has to pay for it. We don't earn it by working here, we justify it here. I refer to the rebuke of you who do not even justify it, at least read what we are trying to learn about and speak with reason and according to what is written here. So it's discretionary authority and to harass and never enter the business premises of a taxpayer, in line with whether it belongs to those who now finance DOS or not. And when you show me the controls of "Blood Product", when you show me the controls of the Surcinal Mafia, and when it's necessary, it's only reduced, I'm going to believe you have good intentions. But you, Mr. Minister, and that tax administration of yours, some gates will be closed for you and you won't be allowed in. I'm telling you now, and you're trying to talk me out of it. The Mafia gates for you are completely closed. You'll be like a poor woman again.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24197	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, we move on to Article 9. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 9th amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has been made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24198	In this article of the bill, we do not mind its essence, the language of which this Member of the bill is written and which we do not understand. If the MPs don't understand what the bill says, I think only the citizens will suffer a terrible torment. At our disposal are libraries, and lecturers, and various aids. Item 2 and 3 that we would change reads (I ask the viewers to try to understand it): "If the legal work is being simulated, some other legal work, to determine the tax liability makes the dissipated legal work." And Section 3 reads: "When incomes are achieved the opposite way in regulations... "Now, Mr. Minister, in Article 37 of this bill, it seems to me in attitude 4, you are asking for everything to be translated into Serbian. I would now ask you to translate this into Serbian. He says, "When incomes are achieved the opposite way"; well, I guess it says, "When incomes are achieved in a way contrary to the regulations", or "if revenue is not achieved in accordance with the regulations", not "when incomes are achieved in the opposite way". He's got a simulated and dissembling job now. And now my farmers from Batocina are going to be dealing with simulated and dissipated work, and that's all they're missing. They mastered everything else, yet to master this simulated and dissembling work, and the minister came. I've listened to you several times, Mr. Minister, you're mistaken in your downfalls, you should be better able to master Serbian, but there's a lecturer in the government. I understand, you haven't said it in a long time, you're wrong, you're getting lost, it even looks cute. You seem likable, even as a phenomenon, but there must be a lecturer who will lecture on the bill's proposals. This stays on record. One day you will say that you have done as much for Serbia as Lazar Pacu, you like to boast about it. So you find Laza's law that's simulated and disimmulated, I'll eat it here.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24199	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Will you also use time as a representative of the parliamentary group? There is a word from MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24200	I'll say very briefly, the remark is very similar to the remarks on Article 9. This is about point 2 of point 1 and part of the text, which reads: "The tax regime is a public rights relationship that includes the rights and obligations of the tax administration on one and the natural, or legal person on the other, which is governed by... "and now it says this: "the obligation of a natural or legal person to, in accordance with the law, do not make payments in a way other than prescribed." The law cannot prescribe a taxpayer not to make payments in a way other than prescribed. It goes into criminal provisions. I suppose the law prescribes that he makes payments in a manner prescribed by law. You have all the negatives. With this bill, you prescribe that you will pay the obligation, not that you should not pay the obligation. Because when you say - the obligation is paid by money, by compensation, by taxing three or four ways; and then, when you want to limit it, you say - you will only pay by law, and you are limiting it and telling it - you will not pay in ways that are not allowed by law. Now, if there's anything else; right now, in our legal order, you certainly have the official messenger's CD in which all the laws are in, find me another law in which, by negating the legal norm, I'm going to apologize for what I'm saying today. But this isn't the style of making a bill, there's a lecturer missing here, there's a Secretariat missing for legislation. This law will remain for many years, with some small changes it will probably benefit later, so don't leave us with such laws, be human laws, be laws that suit Serbian citizens, at least linguistically, if you don't already know what Serbian citizens need as far as the law is concerned.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24201	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Cedomir Jovanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Rajko Baralic, Ljubomir Mucic, Nebojsa Jovic, Zivodarka Dacin, Radojko Petric, Hranislav Peric and Milan Jankovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Rajko Baralić, Ljubomir Mucic, Nebojsa Jovic, Živodarka Dacin, Radojko Petric, Hranislav Perić and Milan Jankovic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Cedomir Jovanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MPs Radojko Petric, Ljubomir Mucic, Rajko Baralić, Jovan Todorovic, Nebojsa Jović, Joca Arsic, Rade Bajić, Dusan Cvetkovic, Hranislav Peric and Miomir Ilic shared the 28th amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 31 of the amendment, the People's MP Bratoljub Janačković was submitted. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. We're moving on to Article 32. The 32nd Amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Radojko Petrovic, Ljubomir Mucic, Rajko Baralić, Jovan Todorovic, Nebojsa Jović, Joca Arsic, Rade Bajić, Dusan Cvetkovic, Hranislav Peric and Miomir Ilic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Miroljub Veljkovic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? The word is by MP Miroljub Veljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24202	Right at the beginning: the termology itself, in the whole law, what Mr Nikolic was saying, is said for example. the tax administrative act. It's simple to say Serbian - tax solution. My amendment is to delete paragraphs 3 and 4 of Article 35. Which is why -- it's said to be a tax administrative act, or, better say, a tax solution, and to be made in writing. So, Article 35 says so, but in point 3 is said - an extremely authorised person of the tax administration can bring a tax act, which is brought in writing, in oral form, and order its execution without delay, if the tax collection or control procedure is compromised." Please, the authorised person or head of the tax administration brings in an oral solution, i.e. giving the order orally to charge taxes and whatever the taxpayer has the right to appeal to any tax administration solution, imagine, the head of the tax administration orders orally, a man complains because he has the right, a solution is made, and that head of the same tax administration says tomorrow - I didn't order it. This opens up such a wide field of volunteerism in the process of making tax solutions, and that is why I suggest that this is deleted; either this is a failure, some mistake, or it is the real intention to act remandically, according to the sympathy of some taxpayers, etc. I would ask that my amendment be accepted because this really doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24203	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Here you are, MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24204	We have put forward a proposal to delete Article 35 the positions 3 and 4 because it seems to us that it is a continuation of the concealment of the procedures that the tax administration will make, the acts that it will bring, the concealment of the law. It's simply that with these provisions you of us who pass this law, and by this law we solve the fates of many people, you hide in fact the actions and actions you're going to do in law enforcement. What's this about? According to Article 35, the tax administrative act is passed, and now, Minister, since you are very written, you have to know - not in writing, but in writing. Because if you're asking someone to be in writing, he would return this bill to you because he's not in writing, he's in a very illiterate form. So, since the tax act is brought in writing, you are predicting with two views of this member that it can be exceptionally brought and oral. You don't say why extremely, you don't say when; it falls under Article 4. Discretional powers. There will be many in this law. And just to remind you, under Article 34(1), what can all be orally adopted by discretionary authority: tax settlement; conclusion; tax control order; tax control record and other act to be launched, amended, supplemented, completed by some action in the tax procedure. Practically everything. Anything the tax administration does with a taxpayer under Article 35(3) can be oral. He can't. You can't orally make a tax solution. I'm sorry, Minister, he can't. It has to be in writing. So it was supposed to indicate which actions could be in oral form and when. Isolate the exact, taxing situation in which it's done. And, of course, attitude four becomes groundless, if there are no oral tax acts, then there are no deadlines for their confirmation by written act. That's really funny. A tax officer comes in and says, "Your tax is $15 million, "spoils things," 'cause I know you're gonna sell them, you're gonna take them, you're gonna take them, you're gonna take them, you're gonna do it, you're gonna do it, you're gonna do it, you're gonna do it, you're gonna do it, and in three days, I'm gonna bring it to you in writing that you can't even complain about. Although you have taken decisions from the current laws, even with you the appeal does not delay the execution of the solution, and that is another killing of civil and human rights in this Serbia, but let it go to your soul as so-called. democratic power. Therefore, tax oral solutions in Serbia must not be because it can happen to sell out the man's property, to ban him from making money available, to go bankrupt, and to prove in the court proceedings that you were wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24205	Members of the 35th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Radojko Petrovic, Ljubomir Mucic, Rajko Baralić, Jovan Todorovic, Nebojsa Jovic, Joca Arsic, Rade Bajic, Dusan Cvetkovic, Hranislav Peric and Miomir Ilic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. Does anyone want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 36 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Vučurević. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here's a word from the People's MP Bozidar Vucurovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24206	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the 36th very illiterately regulate the delivery of tax acts, in writing -- again. I heard there were 30 lecturers in the government. Fire them all. The shape is written. For example, Article 36 of Items 5 and 6 regulates the way the tax acts are served.... Milka's got her problems again. Tomo, please, regulate that. If delivery in a manner referred to in Article 2. - 4th of this article could not be executed, it will be considered executed when the tax acts are sent by the recommended shipment or by e-mail, or by e-mail, yes. An e-mail of light. Delivery carried out in this way shall be deemed to be effected by the end of the third day from the date of submission of the tax code. I read these days that someone got a letter after 40 years of wandering. These three days are very short notice. It's a good thing you left out the delivery method, as it's been called so far, by impaling a taxpayer's door. Now, you should've left it now; then this law would've been really written, impaling simulated, and then someone would come and disimulate it, rip it, drop it, hack into an email or an e-mail, drop the letter out of the mailbox. There is no delivery of tax settlement and no tax act without personal admission. There is a way he avoids being brought in, to receive a tax solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24207	Does anyone want a word? Here you are, MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24208	This article is very important because it regulates the creation of a tax liability. It really doesn't matter if the tax liability comes today, in a few days, a few weeks, a few months. That's what people who pay taxes know very well. There are reasons to delay that obligation. It used to be at the time of inflation, and sometimes if they do some big job that will make them a profit, they'll pay taxes, and they won't pay interest because they're not given a tax solution. Now it's the government of Serbia's problem to regulate it and it regulates it in a very bad way. Article 2 says acts are considered to be delivered when they are handed to the taxpayer, his legal representative, the power of attorney, or an official representative. Article 3 is already discriminatory from the point of view of the Constitution and the law. He says that if the taxpayer is a natural person, that is, an entrepreneur, tax acts are considered to be delivered and served to a full - time member of the household. This is a very dangerous provision, a full-time member of the household with you will also become a taxpayer for your father, brother, son; it is very unpleasant to determine tax collection. If he doesn't pay the taxpayer, he'll pay his brother, his son, or he'll pay his father and mother, and you'll drive all the cattle out of the barn, as I see it. You say the tax solution is considered to be delivered even if it is delivered to the post office. Three days after the transfer to the post office, the deadlines of the IRS are under way, although you know very well that the taxpayer may not receive the IRS. For an act which has not been received, for an act whose acceptance has not been signed, there is no creation of a tax liability. You can ask the post office to settle his tax liability for you and him to sue, because what is now the purpose of the post office, where it appears in relation to the tax administration and the taxpayer, and there is no obligation under Article 6, it seems to me, to perform in good faith. What if the shipment is lost? What if the postman doesn't hand over the recommended shipment in a manner established by law, but leave it with the neighbor, leave it at the gate, as they do. You'll have a lawsuit... (President: Time. Finishing... in which the taxpayer will say - I was not served, and the postman will say - I delivered. Who's going to get that lawsuit when they're in court one-on-one without a witness. I think we should accept this amendment, and I know you won't.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24209	No more logins for the word on this amendment. According to Business, MP Sinisa Mitrovic, deputy member of the DOS-Reform Serbia parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24210	Dear President Micic, fellow MPs, since it is 17.32 a.m. and in accordance with Article 81. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I suggest we extend the debate on amendments until the end of the search. I ask you to accept the extension of the session, since it would be cellificial to finish the amendment search tonight.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24211	To put the motion to a vote, there's no debate on the proposal. (Tomislav Nikolic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) He said in accordance with Article 81, which sets out working hours and proposes an extension of working hours. I'm putting on a motion vote to extend the working time until the debate is over in detail. After the vote, and I've already put it to the vote. For 81, against five, two abstentions, 56, a total of 144 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal of the MP Sinisha Mitrovica. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24212	I understand, Mrs. Micic, that you're a lawyer and that you're not very interested in what's in this Rules of Procedure. You have a secretary of the National Assembly who is also a lawyer and who should be interested in what is written in the Rules of Procedure. And if any of us from the SRS had come out to object to anything, you'd have asked him to tell us who he was with, and then you'd say that this article wasn't regulated. You were told by MP Mitrovic that on the basis of Article 81, which regulates the working hours of the Assembly, he suggested that the National Assembly extend its work today. And in order for this to be proposed, the extension of work must be provided for by that member. Article 81 provides that the session can be held on another day, so not on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays, but on another day. The President of the National Assembly makes that decision and reports to us when he schedules a session for that second day. That member doesn't say the session can be extended at 6:00. He doesn't approve of you. The MP could not call on that member and, based on that member, the decision to extend the session cannot be made today. Your argument, now that I'm down, can be: no injured Rules of Procedure. Look at you one morning in the mirror, Mrs. Micic, do you look like the same woman who entered the National Assembly as the MP. That, is she more beautiful... I view her exclusively as the President of the Assembly, and you see her that way. I am only interested in the violation of the rights of MPs in the National Assembly that you are constantly doing, Mrs. Micic. And if you were an MP at a time when others here were in power, you'd record these injuries all the way to the UN Security Council session. There is little Natasa Kandic to how much you would like to plot on such injuries to the Rules of Procedure. What do we do now that you're in some fictitious majority. See how many MPs voted for -88, there are not so many, and these are fictitious cards. Decisions can't be made past the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, understand that once. As it can't go past the law, and this is passed in the same way that laws are passed.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24213	Mr. Nikolic, we've been making decisions so far on the extension of working hours and we've been working. I see nothing wrong with the Assembly making a decision to do more than prescribed. Moreover, the National Assembly has the power to pass laws and has brought it itself to the Rules of Procedure; I see nothing bad if the MPs want to do more, and it is an injury. (From the O.R.: Not by that member. ) The Rules of Procedure provide for working hours, from when to when. If there is a will, and it has proved by voting that there is a will to work longer, we will respect, of course, the decision of the National Assembly. We're going back to work. Member of the 38th amendment was submitted by MP Cedomir Jovanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MP George Mamula, at the session of the Legislative Committee, withdrew the amendment to Article 41. Member of the 41st amendment was submitted by MP Cedomir Jovanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 43rd amendment was submitted by MP Cedomir Jovanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 45th Amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. There you go. There's a word for Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24214	Article 45 regulates the relationship between the taxpayer and the tax administration, i.e. the obligation of the taxpayer to provide, at the request of the tax administration and within the time limit set by it, all available information necessary to determine the factual situation of the importance of taxation. An application for information from the tax administration is required to deliver, on request by the taxpayer, in writing. It would be all right if it weren't for the provisions, paragraphs 5, 6, 7 and 8 that say, "Extremely," and that no longer means anything, because then it's being applied here, "the tax administration will order the person in charge of fulfilling the obligation of Article 1 of this article to do so orally." The question arises as to what the bill promoter wanted, to order the taxpayer to deliver the information orally; but, he says - in the official place, and on this information, a record is drawn up in which the names of the persons present, place, date, content of the information is entered, signed by the official person of the tax administration and the person who gave the information. A copy of the minutes shall be submitted to the person who gave oral information, upon request. In fact, you made a written statement by the taxpayer because it is in the official place, because there is a record, because all significant data are being entered into the record and because you give him a copy of the minutes at its request. So what's the point of points 5, 6, 7 and 8? To make a oral statement out of the written statement. What's the written statement? You don't understand, of course. When it comes into practice to implement, then the taxpayers will have to understand. People's MPs don't understand this bill, but it'll look like they're voting for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24215	The word has Finance Minister Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24216	I listened carefully to what Mr Nikolic said and now I have invited those who have lectured and legislation. I just want to say, which isn't really my strongest point, as you've all noticed, and sometimes it happens to me to be wrong. So, as far as the first question is concerned (and that's a few amendments back, sorry to intervene now), as regards simulated actions, it's established in the legislation in bond relations, and that's the correct term that exists in some other laws, and it has to be used, not a fictitious one that doesn't exist. As far as double negativity is concerned, it is necessary when talking about inaction. So when something seems and has to be done, it needs to be expressed positively, and in some rare cases, when describing something that is not to be done, it moves with negativity. The last thing was written. We wrote -- in writing; however, legislation, and it was checked in all Serbian laws, it says -- in writing. It's just like that and you should change it in all our laws or leave it the way it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24217	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 46 of the amendment was submitted by MP George Mamul. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24218	If in this article in paragraph 1, "information on the facts of the importance of taxation in the tax procedure" would be clear. This is not because the facts can be significant for determining the tax offence, which is foreseen, and this issue is regulated by the Criminal Procedure Act. So when it comes to denying information here, it's actually about the right not to be a witness, or to be a privileged witness, so it would be a real formulation, not a denial of information, as it is said here. I don't know what law he served as a mustra for this solution, but it would be necessary to change like I said. I suggest it to your mind and knowledge. If you accept the order, and if you don't accept it, fine again.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24219	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? (No) On Article 47, the People's MP, George Mamul, submitted to the amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The People's MP Milorad Stanulov submitted to Article 49 of the amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 49 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament of the People Gordana Pop-Lazic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the People's Parliament want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24220	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, Article 49, on which I have invested the amendment, regulates the art and even determines the facts in tax control. I ask the amendment that the words "tax administration and director of the tax administration's organisation unit" be replaced by the words "trade court", in an appropriate decline, because the tax administration should not decide on the need for skills at the same time and to determine the experts in the tax transaction between the tax administration and the taxpayer, because it is one of the interested parties. Then why didn't you predict that this other side, the taxpayer, could ask and determine the expert? The reasoned request for the exemption of an expert shall be submitted to the tax administration within three days of the date of receipt of the notification of the appointment of an expert. So the request for an exemption is submitted to the IRS. The IRS was the one who appointed the expert, who named the expert, and now we're asking her to change. What would she possibly make any positive decision at the request of the taxpayer, if she was already interested in hiring a certain artist and in having the art done? It would be much more logical for us to do so by the court, because you're interfering here in some way with the jurisdiction of the court and the tax administration. You say here - the warlocks are named from the tax advisors' order. Nowhere else, you don't mention these tax advisors, who can be a tax advisor, what conditions should be met, what school supplies, on which list, who appoints them, etc. And if necessary, you say, from the Order of the Court of Justice. How are you going to ask the court to provide you with a list of your artists and hire them? For this reason, we think it would be quite logical for the Court of Commerce to be the one to perform the art, or to perform the art before it, if necessary, but to be regulated by this member and that the other party in this tax relationship may also request artificiality.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24221	The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24222	Someone here mentioned a cadium, I mean a minister when he said what it used to look like. This article in 49 speaks about how you're sued and how you're tried. Item 1 reads "The Tax Administration decides on the need for skill". Item 2, which is very indicative, says, "If there is no danger of delay, the tax administration will notify the parties in the tax procedure about the person who will appoint the expert." So, the tax administration can determine an expert without even informing a taxpayer who's an expert, under a discretionary pretext that there is a danger of delaying a procedure. Furthermore, for an expert in a certain tax procedure, a person associated with a taxpayer cannot be named. It's okay, and what if it's connected to the tax administration? Are they equal participants in this ongoing dispute? Just because an expert knows the IRS will hire him as an expert, he's in some relationship with the IRS. He may not even know the taxpayer, but in the IRS he is a happily seen guest. He goes in there at the little door, and he's an expert. Now, when the taxpayer submits a reasoned request for the exemption of an expert, he submits it to the manager of the tax administration's organization unit who appointed the expert. There's only one cadiya in there. He sues and judges, he determines the artist and decides on the objection of the taxpayer seeking the exception of the expert. In the whole text of the bill, the tax administration is favoured exclusively. She's got all the rights. The taxpayer has exclusive obligations, which is why he's called a taxpayer. You are not treated here as an equal participant in any dispute. If it wasn't for taxpayers, there wouldn't be a tax administration. There's no dilemma about what's older - chicken or egg? The tax administration was formed only after taxpayers showed up. Otherwise, it didn't start before any traffic started before the first state needed tax to finance it. Therefore, the tax administration, which wants to finance the state from stable incomes and to schedule taxes to the relative economic strength of taxpayers, does not pass such laws. Of course, all the forces, the coercion, all the powers are with the IRS. He even has an armed force. One day, taxpayers will have nothing to pay for. Then the tax police won't have anything to buy the ammunition they're going to put in the gun when they start charging taxpayers' taxes.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24223	No more logins for the word on this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 50th amendment. The government and the committees in charge did not accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24224	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have had an amendment to one of the previous members of this, according to the minister, of the system law, but so far I have been with the people of Belgrade at a protest rally organised by the Hague prisoner, former President Slobodan Milosevic, who is in grave shape. The people of Mr. Minister, because they know what this authority is and what you are minister and what, among other things, this bill, tells you that he is hungry, that nothing means to him your tax reform and that there is no possibility of feeding his children. I've submitted an amendment to Article 50. It's a bill of law. This amendment, like all previous ones, and what our president and Serbian radicals have said in the principle debate, points to the danger of the existence of the so-called tax police force that you say -- what does it matter if it's parallel police with the existing police force, for the simple reason that this member of the law, as well as many previous and many until the end of this legislative project, is cut off by criminal law, or the law on criminal proceedings. Mr Minister, when you proposed the first package of tax laws in April 2001, you had objections from the SRS MPs, our concrete amendments to such members as they were about tax inspectors, or tax police, financial police, being able to charge taxes (contained in the package of the law) day and night. Here you have avoided that provision whether it is day or night, but here it is clearly said that (and again I repeat that it is contrary to the Code of Criminal Procedure) can be without a court order; the taxpayer may or may not have to be present; he can, and he does not have to see what will stand in the record when his property is confiscated; that there is an incursion into a private property, or property, with the presence of, as the Government has answered, two witnesses. You know, that reminds me of what you are as someone's ideological children and what happened in Broz's communist time after World War II, when people were taken from their homes, when they were taken away from their property, when people, opponents of the regime, were beaten. Then someone, or an actual representative of the government, comes along and says, "This someone, God forbid it happens, but it happened in that shameful part of our history, died in the presence of power." It reminds me of that time, and it poses a great danger. How are you going to explain to the citizens of Serbia who are taxpayers that someone can enter their private property without a court order, and the government suits me, refusing to smooth this as well as any amendments so far, that this is understood. What is not clearly written, which is not precise, and which strictly conflicts with positive legislation, the Criminal Procedure Act, cannot be accepted and it will be very dangerous if implemented in practice.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24225	The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24226	This is about another discretionary authority in which the tax administration will act according to the purpose of this discretionary authority. "Introduce is carried out when, in order to determine or clarify the facts of importance for taxation, a direct observation of the tax administration's official is required. Notice shall be carried out without the presence of the taxpayer, if the delay of insight could compromise the determination of facts or result in the destruction of evidence of importance for taxation." He even says here: The insight can be attended by an expert. The three positions of this member of the bill are entirely in the power of the tax administration. So, the IRS decides whether or not it's necessary to see where her clerk is going to determine some more facts. She decides whether that insight can be done without a taxpayer. She decides if there's a need for an expert. If you link it to Article 51, the next member, then this law obliges neighbours and neighbours to allow an unlimited passage across their property, through their property, if it has to be done to make an insight into a taxpayer. You're really taxed. Inviolability of property, apartment, you don't count on it at all. A neighbor has a neighbor who is a taxpayer, passes through the neighbor's garden because he can't get to the taxpayer otherwise. Stepping and rolling, tanks entering, stretching the fence to make sense of it. That's what it says here. The owner or holder of the property or land over which it is necessary to cross, shall be obliged to allow for an insight. What are these provisions of the law? Is that a law that suits a democratic society? Well, Tito didn't charge taxes like that. What you didn't write here - taxpayer's children are obliged to report a taxpayer if he feeds pigs somewhere or if he has some cattle he didn't report or if he's baked two hand-offs to the tax administration. The neighbour is obliged to report it, hand over to the IRS, to support this country that is full of sponsorship, donations and everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24227	The word has a finance and economy minister, Mr Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24228	I would just like to point out, however, about the relationship between the taxpayer and the tax administration, if it wasn't a bond relationship, it's a public relationship and, of course, what is seen on the income side as one obligation; as someone said earlier, he was first a taxpayer, so I would say, as soon as any form of community or state was created, then a tax was created. In this way it was found that the community, or something that should be called so, means, the beginning of some form of civil society, the formation of some common functions, is thus marked. It's not some, I'd say, voluntary way, it's something that's tax-specific. It is not paid because it is wanted, but because it is, of course, with everything that needs to be democratically restricted through this home, first of all, and of course through all the other provisions that we see in this law. So, of course, that there is and there must be respect for law and it seems to me that this law, looking at our archives, for the first time since World War II, introduces these categories. Which are taxpayer rights, and the right not to pay taxes isn't there. On the other hand, on the other hand, often the same people appear as budget users, and there is no bonding relationship between the state, this time the budget, and people; and then, I would say, according to some debt contract to decide whether the state would choose to pay some pensions or whether it should pay child benefits this month. Of course it's legal, and the state has to do it. These are the two aspects of these public finances, income and expenditure, which are arranged in this way. Second thing, I wouldn't want a picture to be created here if the review was coming next year, we're making a law on these issues. As far as budget audits are concerned, this house has been passed this year, as no supreme accounting court has yet been established, that this house decides which one is the auditor who will audit the budget independently of the government last year. So it exists and it will be your choice. For next year, I think we'll have it, and that report will be delivered to this home, not to the government. Next year, we'll have, I expect, this supreme accounting court. The other thing I was going to say is that in no case should our citizens get the impression here that suddenly the tax police can get in, get in, go wherever they want. Of course, both constitutional and other laws are regulated and there is no derivation here. And not only that, but to enter the room, there must be a court solution. So, the tax police, the tax administration doesn't derivate from it, nor does it have the right to enter the apartment unless there's a valid solution to the court. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24229	No more logins for the word on this amendment. National MP Miroljub Veljkovic submitted to the 52nd amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The amendment guy wants a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24230	Dear People's MPs, this member of the law is probably the greatest pearl in this otherwise comic law, and particularly the position of the 3rd of this Article 52. Listen: "The suspicion which arises in the absence of information, i.e. the lack of evidence by the taxpayer, who, in accordance with this law, is obliged to deliver it to the tax administration, may be at his expense in the process of determining the tax liability." Mr. Minister, have you read "Suspecting Face" from Nusic? Yeah, you probably remember there: blue fish, swastika but, ticked dynasties and so on; now, let's say, your tax inspector comes in, takes a registrator, opens up there, say, a balance sheet for 2003 and finds three CDs there: blue fish, swastika but, swastika but, ticked dynasty, asks a taxpayer -- what is it, and this man, maybe the kids were playing, this, that, short of information and five million dinars. Or, the inspector comes in and cuts off the obligor's information about whether he has pork or veal for lunch, and three million dinars, and I don't add any more; or he asks him why your shoes are only three months old, and so on, and so on. I think this kind of nonsense, I'm free to say, should be thrown out of the bill, and in that sense, I suggest that Article 52, paragraph 3, delete the category of a suspicious person from the tax code, or the Tax Administration Act. Imagine, a suspicious face of doubt, which is a suspicion that has not been proven in the process, cannot be the basis for causing damage to the taxpayer, I guess that's clear to everyone, that's so logical. Look, he's a dubious man, so let's get on the grounds of doubt, and because he's denied any information, cut off his taxes and bring a tax settlement. In that sense, I urge you to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24231	Here you are, MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24232	We are trying to clear these amendments of the bill so that there is no doubt of what the state wants to achieve by this bill. The state here tells us that it wants to regulate the tax system, the relationship between the taxpayer and the tax administration, to bring it to the highest possible level. Come on, we've got everything set up in the state, everything's working out for us, the Constitutional Charter written, DOS exists, everything's fine now, we're just still missing to regulate this tax system. But, well, let's just say it's the good intentions of the bill promoter, but he has to prove it to every member of the bill. And we have already shown you at least 15 members representing the discretionary powers of the tax administration, and so does this member. You're saying, if a taxpayer deprives some information or doesn't provide evidence to the tax administration, and there's a suspicion in the tax administration that he's doing something that doesn't comply with the law, that doubt can be in the process of determining the tax liability to be at his expense. When you tell someone that in the process of determining the tax obligation something will be at his expense, that means we'll make him a bigger tax liability because we doubted him when he didn't provide us with the information. Could the tax administration suspect damage the taxpayer? If it turns out that a high, high tax liability is made which is not in accordance with the law, if the taxpayer proves it in the ordinary procedure, it is illusory to talk about damage compensation afterwards. A team before the non-execution interest is much more than the interest on which the returnee has committed. Second of all, you have a month's hold-up to repay funds. Third, what if the taxpayer fails? Because you doubted him, you called him a high tax liability, he couldn't set her up, he went for good, he proved in the process that she was right; and who did the state here damage to him by giving back all that she had taken away from him in any of the proceedings? Discretional authority of the tax administration because it suspects the taxpayer to sign a higher tax liability is not democracy. And you can't convince us by the fact that the state has to collect taxes and the taxpayer doesn't ask if the state has to charge. That's right, the state has to charge taxes, but according to the law, and the law to write so that it has taxpayers. The laws written like this will dissipate the few taxpayers who can pay their dues.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24233	No more logins for the word on this amendment. Member of the 55th amendment was submitted by MP Cedomir Jovanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legal, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Member of the 56th Amendment was submitted by MP Cedomir Jovanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers it legal, so I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Members of the 57th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Radojko Petrovic, Ljubomir Mucic, Rajko Baralić, Jovan Todorovic, Nebojsa Jovic, Joca Arsic, Rade Bajic, Dusan Cvetkovic, Hranislav Peric and Miomir Ilic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? No, he's not there. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 62 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Do you want a word? He has the word National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24234	Mr. Minister today, in his opening statement in the morning, among other things, which he promised here, speaking affirmatively about this legislative project, said that taxes in our country under his patronage, his ministry, and how he creates it, must be just, certain and effective, and we have a 62nd law entitled "Indicative method for determining the minimum income tax". Indicio - Presumption; Latin word, I don't know why, because of the termology, which you prefer, is Western; but, Mr Minister, if you look at those who are your role model, from countries that are in the European Union, which you admire; and all those whom you have made legislation in the field of tax policy, you will see that such a method of conjecture does not exist in those countries, and even in the one you apostrophy, as far as I know, that is Italy, with the highest percentage of tax evasion. In order to prevent tax evasion, in order to find out at all the reasons why tax evasion is taking place, it must go from whether high tax rates, and in this case they are, according to all the legal projects that are in force, so through these changes that will be on the agenda tomorrow, because of the inaccurate legal forms, because it also makes a taxpayer look for holes in the law, and because of rigorous criminal provisions or, on the other hand, insufficiently rigorous criminal provisions. But, a concrete economic environment, which you as finance minister in Djindjic's government of the Republic of Serbia, together with other ministers, has put us in a position to look around and see that the entire economy and the entire economic system have completely collapsed. And if you in a law like this, which you're proud of, which you say is systemic, introduce so-called. Indicative method to determine the minimum income tax, explain, on the other hand, the workers you further deceive, and you and your colleagues from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, who will make foreign investors come to Serbia, to buy our businesses with favourable conditions, when do you assume that someone's tax is so big and so big? You know, Mr. Minister, I can assume that on a profit (which, due to a marketing move, you bought a convertible brand "Stava", which is a question of whether after this phantom contract with a con artist from the so-called. "Her car company continues to be manufactured) you did not pay taxes, and that is my indication. I can also assume that you didn't pay the income tax that you bought your expensive suits and all the benefits you enjoy. Therefore, explain to the taxpayers, who should invest here, what a tax conjecture is.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24235	There is a word from MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24236	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, because of the citizens of Serbia to whom this will apply, I will read Article 62, which has only two positions. The first point is: "The income tax of citizens cannot be less than the amount calculated on the basis of the formula by which certain indices apply to the factors which represent indications of the luxury life-style of the taxpayer." And Article 2: "The government, on a proposal from the Minister, is closer to regulating the application of the methods set out in Article 1." What is missing here - there is no formula by which certain indices will be applied to factors that represent indications of the luxurious lifestyle of the taxpayer. What are the indications that the taxpayer has a luxurious lifestyle, which is the law for these indications? What law provides for indices, which law, which law provides for a formula? So those of you who have never done anything in your life, nor did you gain, you are allowed to laugh. This finger I'm providing will cause at least five or six MPs to laugh. It's easy for you, and you need a man to think seriously. It's easy for you to throw, to laugh. The law needs to be read, because one day, when there's a new revolution here, people will remember who voted for these laws. You're not even saying that the government will determine the methods, but will only determine the application of the method. So who's the one who's gonna determine the method? Tax administration, finance minister, who, tell us here. What's for the finance minister is an indication of a luxurious life, and what's for another minister, maybe they're different in that. Are these trips, expensive suits, breakfast, lunch and dinners in restaurants, three cars, official, accompanied by, armored cars, what is it for you, a trip to America, what is the indication of a luxurious life? So this you will be able to skin and the snail of the naked, and he has some indication of a luxurious life -- look at him, a man walking, and he doesn't have a house. Everything must be provided for in the tax law, and you - discretionary authority, in accordance with the purpose of that authority.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24237	No more reported under this amendment. The 65th amendment was submitted by MP Cedomir Jovanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 67th Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Vukic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24238	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is as many of us as we are left, since, I'm sure, less than a third of us in the O.R., it's not enough when Kostunica and Djindjic are reconciled, that there are enough people in the O.R. On the basis of Article 141. I suggested that Rule 67 be deleted, which speaks of temporary measures to ensure the collection of taxes. In fact, what the government predicted would have been something that we had neither in theory nor in practice until now. We had some kind of similar institute, but not with such discretionary rights and powers, which are used under this law. For those of you who don't know what it says in article 67 and who don't have the law in front of them, I'll say the most important parts. It says that "in order to ensure the collection of taxes which did not arrive for payment or, "see "which has not been established, but which has been initiated, there is a risk that the taxpayer might deprive, disable, or make ineffective his collection, the tax administration can set up temporary measures to ensure the payment", which means that then he can put the mortgage on the house, the right to moving things, etc., and so the question arises - and how when the tax is not even established, how when Article 8 of this law says that all relations will be in accordance with the standards of the fine-tuning, i.e. in good faith will be made between the parties in the tax procedure. What does this mean? So, it seemed to us that someone simply wanted to avoid, we don't have any solution, we don't have any tax collection paper, we don't even know if it's a face, because it's said here -- someone might run away, so before they get any tax collection paper, they're gonna have to worry about whether someone's gonna go into his house, a financial officer, the tax office, whether someone's gonna come to him to arrest him just like that, because someone figured out that he could avoid something like that, and they're gonna introduce him to him the hostage rights on immovable or mobile things. He's a completely unnecessary member. It allows for the absolute arbitration of the tax administration and I do not think it should be accepted, especially because of the final position of this member, which says that the complaint from this member does not retain execution. So it's possible to do what it wants and what it wants. It's interesting, and I gave it up in my own explanation and said that it could be impossible to pay an unconfirmed tax at all. So, you don't have a fixed tax here, and then you say you're accusing someone in advance of making it impossible to pay a tax that doesn't exist, which isn't at all determined. This really looks like serious preparations to deal with all those who are not close to the Kostunica and Djindjic regime. I must say that even in response to my amendment by the Government, apart from the fact that there is a temporary measure to ensure the collection and now, that such a legal institute exists, nothing is written and that this is one rigorous measure that will not benefit anyone, which will only lead to further and ever greater divisions in society itself. In the end, I'd take the opportunity, since we don't have any others...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24239	You don't have a chance. You've taken the time. Thank you. You already said you were finishing up, so you didn't.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24240	I'm finishing up right now, Mrs. Micic, be patient for another 10 seconds...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24241	It's already five minutes, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24242	I'll be done in 10 seconds, have patience, I won't say anything offensive to you. So, I would only invite all citizens of the Serbian Vojvodina to attend a large rally Friday at 17 pm in the Freedom Square of Serbia's single opposition candidate Dr Vojislav Seselj. I'll see you in Novi Sad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24243	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Here is the word of the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24244	The provisions of Article 67, the Proposer, sets out to prevent the avoidance of payment, except he won't tell us that the obligation has not been made at all. Even in two cases, you might be able to confiscate your assets -- these are now taxpayers, a new type of perpetrators, those who have the right to enter your business premises, into a property -- in two cases where you have no tax obligation at all. The first is that the tax liability has not been established at all, and the second is that the tax has not arrived for payment. The legislator says: "The procedure for the establishment and termination of publishing rights is carried out in accordance with the application of Articles 88 and 92 of this Law." Not true, but also Articles 90 and 91 because article 88 binds to itself members 90 and 91. So, you don't have a tax solution, there's no tax liability at all established and they come in and they write down moving things, write down real estates, bans on the transfer of money through a taxpayer's account open to a payer and registration of a ban on blocked accounts; bans on taxpayers to pay taxpayers' debts. Well, that way you can ruin a man because you have a pet who owes him money. You are now again protecting the debtor, allowing the debtor not to pay the debt to anyone else who is not even a taxpayer yet. Write down, confiscate things, destroy property, destroy his accounts, block his business, and that's a fair tax code for you. This government will remain remembered by Article 67. The communists were remembered for pulling mustaches, taking cattle out of the barn, and even for the obligation of one of our peasants from Raca Kragujevaca to bring their only good - plow sac to the cooperative home and to hand it over to the tax authorities. The plow he plowed the fields and fed the children. Now, according to this article 67, you will become the dominous ones remembered. You're going to steal property from people who don't owe any taxes and maybe they won't owe it at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24245	There's a word for Minister Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24246	Of course, the impression you're trying to leave here that this gives absolute right to the IRS to do exactly what they want is simply not true. That impression must not remain because we already have this institute in our right. So there's no newspaper here. And in all Latin or countries a little south of Europe, such an institute exists, because it is simply tax discipline or, rather, tax non-discipline. If you look at the parallel right, and even this right and the institute that exists with us, we already have that. Of course, it is not true that in these exceptional cases when there is strong indication that a potential taxpayer... If a full member is read, it is seen that it is not suddenly, but that there is a procedure, that the issue of a tax solution is launched; therefore, it is not from heaven, the tax administration comes and decides some temporary measure. No, I don't. There's a procedure, only he's not finished and the tax administration sees a potential taxpayer trying to cover up, to move, to destroy, and it's perfectly normal that there are these temporary measures, which can't lead to them, for the next few days until that solution is reached, there's some sort of sale of that property. Of course not. So this is just one aspect, perhaps not the most brilliant, of our lives, in our society; it's not unique, it's not the first time, it's not something terrible, but it's necessary because financial indiscipline and ingenuity is what it is, and I'd say the willingness to cover up evidence, or to destroy or remove those moving assets that can be used to pay taxes; it's all necessary in a country like ours today.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24247	The 68th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Stanulov. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here's a word from the People's MP Milorad Stanulov.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24248	The President-in-Office, the honourable fellow Members, in Article 68, defines the forms of regular tax collection and the exceptions defined in point 4 which states: "Excludingly from the provisions of Article 1 - 3 of this article, the obligation may be settled: 1) through compensation; 2) by handing things over to the competent state authority; 3) by converting the claim on the basis of the tax into the capital of the taxpayer in the privatisation procedure, in the manner and under the conditions prescribed by the Government; 4) in the work, material or services." In front of the New Democracy MPs, I have tabled an amendment to delete in Article 68 paragraph 4 of the 3rd indent. By participating in the taxpayer's capital by tax debt and by converting it into state actions, he becomes a shareholder and co-owner. Therefore, the sale of the share of the stock is a source of what has failed with regular and forced payment in money and property. Therefore, the privatisation process is reportedly accelerated by action and not all, but decided by the government. The government admits that it introduces unequal treatment, so we have unpredictability in the tax system. Also, it is possible that taxpayers through the debt tax provide for themselves to avoid bankruptcy and the privilege of resolving tax obligations. Between state action and bankruptcy, we give priority to bankruptcy as a process in which there is judicial procedure. That's why we suggested that the third-member's indent be deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24249	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 68th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Adam Urosevic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. People's MPs are not present. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 70 of the amendment was submitted by MP Cedomir Jovanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MPs Radojko Petrovic, Ljubomir Mucic, Rajko Baralić, Jovan Todorovic, Nebojsa Jovic, Joca Arsic, Rade Bajić, Dusan Cvetkovic, Hranislav Peric and Miomir Ilic together. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The MPs are not present. Does anyone else want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24250	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, since no one is applying for a word, I object to the violation of Rules of Procedure, Article 82(2). You voted to work until the amendment debate is over, and now your MPs are gone. (From O.R.: 131.) There's 71 MPs in the O.R., now we count three times. That means you manipulate the cards, that you've been fighting each other, there won't be a vote this day. So you're torturing us from the SRS because we've been working on the bill, because we've written so many amendments, to stay here in the O.R., for God's sake, it's our fault that we wrote those amendments, so now let's sit in the O.R. You, like, want to work longer, only you're not here right now. When you want to work longer and the quorum is only down to a third of the total number of MPs, that third must be in this room any minute. Now there's no choice or decision anymore. A third of the MPs of the sea, and that's 84. I warn you, Mrs. Micic, the cards of other MPs are being used unauthorized here. What it says on the screen, it's a condition from maybe two hours ago. Hall's empty. If we're going to work, you're going to sit down. We're gonna work, and you're gonna sit down, but you need to sit in the O.R.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24251	Did you ask to establish the quorum? Yeah. ) I ask the Members of Parliament to insert identification cards into the MPs to determine the quorum. Did you insert your card, sir? Well, now that I've said so. I figure we have a quorum and we can keep working. Is anyone else answering for an amendment to Article 70? No, I don't. ) On Article 72 of the amendment was submitted by MP Cedomir Jovanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The People's MP Milorad Stanulov submitted to Article 76 of the amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the MP want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 76 of the amendment was submitted by MP Cedomir Jovanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Radojko Petrovic, Ljubomir Mucic, Rajko Baralić, Jovan Todorovic, Nebojsa Jovic, Joca Arsic, Rade Bajic, Dusan Cvetkovic, Hranislav Peric and Miomir Ilic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The MPs are not present. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Radojko Petric, Ljubomir Mucic, Rajko Baralić, Jovan Todorovic, Nebojsa Jović, Joca Arsic, Rade Bajić, Dusan Cvetkovic, Hranislav Peric and Miomir Ilic submitted to the 77th amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The MPs are not present. Does anyone else want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24252	On the basis of Article 82(4), I find that the application of the electronic system has not established a quorum for holding the session. Please establish the quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24253	I ask the People's MPs to determine the quorum. I find that we have a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. Anyone else answer for a word by amendment to Article 77? No, I don't. ) The amendments were submitted jointly by MPs Radojko Petrovic, Ljubomir Mucic, Rajko Baralić, Jovan Todorovic, Nebojsa Jović, Joca Arsic, Rade Bajic, Dusan Cvetkovic, Hranislav Peric and Miomir Ilic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The MPs are not present. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 78 of the amendment was submitted by MP Cedomir Jovanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Member of the 80th Amendment was submitted by MP Cedomir Jovanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Member of the 81st Amendment was submitted by MP Cedomir Jovanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MP Bratoljub Janackovic submitted to the 84th amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the MP want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24254	On behalf of the Group of New Democracy MPs, I have submitted an amendment to Article 84 concerning the costs of the mandatory collection procedure. With my amendment, I suggest that Article 1 be deleted. Let me remind you, i.e. to read what that position reads: "The tax liability is increased by a special and one-time tax on the mandatory tax charge of 5% of the amount of taxes paid and the unpaid taxes, which are calculated and attributed to the principal debt on the day of the start of the compulsory payment procedure". I do not believe that the legal status of this tax has been established, or that this clearly does not make it clear whether it is some punishment, about taxing the very fact that someone is already a taxpayer or something else. Let me also read to you the argument of the Government, which does not accept this amendment. "The amendment is not accepted because it is a specific measure which is in the function of increasing tax discipline. So it's not a tax offense, it's a specific measure, which is a function of increasing tax discipline, which means it's not a penalty, nor a measure applied to someone because of the fact that the taxpayer is already a taxpayer, but an instrument that is being stimulated by the taxpayer, the penalty is stimulated to orderly smell the tax liability, or to destimulate the determination to wait for forced tax collection." Of course, I'm not so naive that I don't understand the government's motives, which can be truly justified. We all know that in the previous period there was a large number of taxpayers whose business philosophy was avoiding tax payments. From that point of view, indeed my amendment may not have room and at first sight the government's explanation is from that point of view really fine. There is a real need for messy taxes to pay for discipline, but I will also remind you that the economic environment in Serbia in recent years and this year is such that many small tax bonds, which are also the majority, do not even come to mind not to settle their tax obligations, but that it is simply in this economic environment when they face the indifferences of various species daily and when a firm discipline of payment is determined at all levels, is simply not possible. So I think that when it comes to someone who is already on a continuous basis, he regularly fulfils the tax obligations all year round and if there is already a forced payment, which is also fine, and if the costs of forced payment are paid, which is also fine, it is also wrong to pay a special penalty. That's why I think it might be possible for some kind of intervention to show good will to pay taxes with understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24255	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Radojko Petric, Ljubomir Mucic, Rajko Baralić, Jovan Todorovic, Nebojsa Jović, Joca Arsic, Rade Bajic, Dusan Cvetkovic, Hranislav Perić and Miomir Ilic submitted the amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is there an application for a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) Member of the 84th Amendment was submitted by MP Cedomir Jovanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. On Article 86 of the amendment, with a correction, was filed by the People's MP Milorad Stanulov. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Stanulov.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24256	Dear People's MPs, we have submitted an amendment that was misspelled to be an amendment of article 85, which actually refers to Article 86. Article 86(1) states that a third party, other than a member of the household of a taxpayer, who claims to have the right to a matter which is the subject of an emergency payment procedure, which would prevent the sale of property, may file an exclusive action to the competent court. We propose our amendment to delete the words "except members of the taxpayer's household". Also, in the position of the 3rd member, which reads: "If the person referred to in Article 1 provides evidence that he has the right to a matter which is subject to mandatory tax collection, the tax administration may suspend, or suspend, the application of an emergency payment measure on that subject", we suggest that instead of saying "the tax administration may suspend or suspend application", it states "the tax administration interrupts application, i.e. suspends application". I would ask a representative of the Government, given that it is stated in the government's reasoning that it is not accepted because the argument does not apply to that member of the law, to take this amendment into consideration again.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24257	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Radojko Petrovic, Ljubomir Mucic, Rajko Baralić, Jovan Todorovic, Nebojsa Jović, Joca Arsic, Rade Bajić, Dusan Cvetkovic, Hranislav Perić and Miomir Ilic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Are any of the authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Milorad Stanulov submitted to Article 90 of the amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Radojko Petrovic, Ljubomir Mucic, Rajko Baralić, Jovan Todorovic, Nebojsa Jović, Joca Arsic, Rade Bajic, Dusan Cvetkovic, Hranislav Peric and Miomir Ilic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does one of the authorized participants in the debate come forward? No, I don't. ) On Article 102 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic. Will you also use time as vice president?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24258	Since you're so kind, I'll take advantage. Otherwise, sometimes I don't like to use it all the time. First of all, I would like to object to the minister that, after attempting to put this law on the agenda in an emergency procedure so that there would be no amendments, he has now participated under the pressure of our argument in eliminating the direct television transmission of this session of the National Assembly. Perhaps the minister has some indication that we will win some political point with this debate, so he immediately issued a ban on the availability of direct television transmissions, which are the democratic fluid of this National Assembly; not a direct television transmission occurred when DOS came to power, but when Serbian radicals entered the government of the Republic of Serbia. Now, since you can do without transmission, and sometimes you'd jump off the bridge to kill yourself because there are no television transmissions, so I can move on to the amendment to Article 102, paragraphs 4, 5 and 6 that I've anticipated to delete, and how do we not predict that the views that say that if there are grounds for doubt that the taxpayer will prevent the sale of the movable items on which the claimable right of the Republic is established, the matter will be taken away at the moment of the census. The tax enforcement officer shall explain the existence of the basis of the doubt set out in Article 4(1). To me, the government has said that it is enough that the tax enforcer, they say, will explain it in writing. However, according to the proposal for a law, it is not a written explanation of the tax enforcer, but merely an argument. Well, if the taxpayers knew, and these are mostly small bonds that prey on movable things, big fish take away real estate, property, put paws on pay traffic, bills, debts, and this is poverty. Confiscation of movable things is only worth it when it covers tax debt, and these are small tax debts: used television, used table, smaller which can remain for the family, radio apparatus. Now, if you adopt this bill, at the moment of the list, the tax offender takes away from the tax payer's hands or his children who should not remain without that thing in the house. It is only the right of the tax enforcement officer to explain his actions, not in writing as the Government has answered me, but only to explain it. Who does he explain to when he doesn't have to do it in writing? Maybe the unit manager who sent him, maybe the finance minister, maybe the neighbors, but mostly... I know the finance minister is interested in this discussion, and you, Mr. Bogdanovic, have time to talk to the minister about other things at a time when a session of the National Assembly is not held. Nenad Bogdanovic: We are seriously considering what you are saying. You're not seriously considering this. I'm not interested in you taking this seriously, but there's really no way to discuss your questions now that you can at a time when there's no session of the National Assembly. You have prevented the minister from hearing the amendment debate and at least in some way showing the citizens of Serbia that he is interested in what the opposition in the assembly is saying. I'm not saying this law is stupid. The minister won't say the amendment is stupid. In this regard, we will in some way respect each other's authority and opposition. I don't like the law. Maybe he doesn't think amendments are right either, but there's one game here that we've all gotten into by running for election. This game is for me to listen to the minister, read his bill, write amendments, and the minister to come and listen to what he's bored of and what he won't accept, because he doesn't have another job today, except for this. Don't give him another job. Maybe he's capable of doing two things at the same time, but he can only do it in the bathroom.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24259	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment, in the same text, was submitted by the MPs George Mamula and Milorad Stanulov. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Do the applicants want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Does any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Milorad Stanulov submitted to Article 106 of the amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Does any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Adam Urosevic submitted the 109th amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 112 of the amendment was submitted by MP Cedomir Jovanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. On Article 112, the amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Milorad Stanulov. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 116 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bratoljub Janačković. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. On Article 117, the amendment was submitted by Parliament of People Gordana Pop-Lazic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? The word is submitted by the amendment, MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24260	Ladies and gentlemen, Article 117 regulates tax write-offs as one of the forms of termination of the tax debt. I ask the amendment to delete the position of the 1st member, which states that the Government may, on a proposal from the Minister, make a decision on a partial or full tax write-off and a parallel payment of the taxpayer to be sold in the privatisation process, i.e. in the restructuring process. I'm interested in what criteria will the minister single out one taxpayer from other taxpayers? Why these criteria are not prescribed by law, and I don't see that they will be prescribed by any other act. It means that again there will be some discretionary assessment, his discretionary right to decide which legal entities, which are already in privatisation, will propose to the government to write off their debt, which they will not. Let's say, now the "Wino Zupa" is in the privatisation process and has 11 million debts. We know that, we read it in the press. It's 4.5 million in taxes and contributions. If the company buys someone close to the minister, the minister will propose that the debt be written off to the government, as it is normal that the company will be more easily and favourablely privatised if it is not burdened with debt, but if it is. If it's someone who doesn't like the minister, then there's no write-off debt. All taxpayers and all privatisation entities should be equal. No, Mr. Minister, if you can decide who you'll write off your debt to and who you won't write off your debt to. If that's your discretionary right to decide, then you can still take a percentage of who privatized the company, who bought it without debt. Who's going to trace you - no one. That is why I believe it is necessary, in order to remove any suspicion and possibility of abuse (perhaps you will not, but some other minister in your place might want to abuse that right) to delete this position of Article 117.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24261	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? The word has been made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24262	Article 117 is about the tax write-off, which is the category where one taxpayer can be privileged in relation to another taxpayer only because it is about the privatisation process. This means that there will be no respect for the principle of equality before the law. In fact, the government responded and said that it implies that the government, under this provision of the law, will decide on write-offs according to the same criteria for each obligor who entered the privatisation or restructuring process. It doesn't mean anything. What's this about? Article 117(1) is clear. In his confusion, he says, "The government can, on a proposal from the minister, make a decision on a partial or full tax write-off and a parallel tax on the taxpayer that is being sold." So, you can write down the taxes, you can write down the taxes in part. There are no criteria, there is no single decision, so to say - the taxpayer who entered the privatisation process of orrestructuring is written off the side tax, but says - the government can write off one, the other one not to write off; let's say, positive business, so it says - this positive business, we're not going to write it off, this one doesn't do business, he didn't pay the salary for three months, we're going to write it off; what are the criteria by which the government is going to write off the tax? It's dangerous to write off taxes and there must be criteria. It cannot be a criterion of failure in business, no award by the government can be a criterion for failure in business. Only a successful business can be a criterion, for rewarding will bring even more taxes. The second thing, the privatisation process depends on who the buyer is. There are a lot of doubts about the Privatisation Agency, in the tender way of selling, there are people who are privileged, there are people close to the regime, and the easiest thing to do is to call and say -- write off their debts, that and that one should buy that company. Don't leave the minister this much authority, I don't believe in a political organization belonging to the minister. The organisation does not want Serbia's economy or Serbian society in general well.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24263	Anyone else want a word? If not, we move on to Article 131. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Radojko Petrovic, Ljubomir Mucic, Rajko Baralić, Jovan Todorovic, Nebojsa Jovic, Joca Arsic, Rade Bajic, Dusan Cvetkovic, Hranislav Peric and Miomir Ilic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on Finance has submitted to Article 134 of the amendment. I ask the Government's representative to plead on this amendment. Sustained. On behalf of the government, Minister Bozidar Djelic accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee did not consider this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 134 of the amendment was submitted by MP George Mamul. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Finance Committee has accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 137 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Vukic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24264	Article 137 and in relation to Article 165, tax offences and the conduct of the police in the detection of criminal offences and their perpetrators have been regulated. In addition to our general remark that criminal acts must be governed by criminal law and that it was not at all a problem for the Government of the Republic of Serbia that all the crimes listed here, instead of finding in the Criminal Law that the provisions do not apply, that all the acts are classified by the Criminal Law, there is also an objection to attitude 3 which is very serious and should be pictured by those who will vote for this law. In point 3 of the proposal, the promoter says: "In order to detect tax crimes and their perpetrators, the tax police in a pre-crisis procedure can act as an internal affairs authority and have been authorised to take demand actions, as well as to call and listen to the suspect", not a taxpayer, "without the right to bring him in." Here, it is directly involved in the Internal Affairs Ministry's intelligence; there are no other internal affairs bodies, except the Ministry of the Interior. And when you formed a state-owned information agency (as it was called, instead of Uboba), our observation was that the members of the BIA, with security information, must be trained and clearly marked when they participate in actions together with internal affairs authorities. You could see that if you followed a parallel legislation. All members of various armed state formations must be marked in armed actions. Imagine now one action, according to article 165 of the armed action involving police and police inspectors. I don't read the amendments until they get to the agenda, I read the bill. This is the idea of a legislator, and that you accept some amendments, that may be political compromises, and your idea is this law. You are predicting the action of internal affairs authorities and tax police in which the fruit will be agreed by two ministers; it will be armed, and I assume that the tax police will be people, economists and lawyers, in a profession capable of handling a hard drive rather than a gun, a gun, a long weapon, a pitcher, cannons and tanks. And you now predict that they can act as the internal affairs authorities. The easiest thing to say is anyone armed can act as an internal affairs organ, but it's just not possible. That's why we have the Ministry of the Interior; rather, when a tax inspector takes action, if there's a presumption (and you're all working on suspicion and conjecture) that there will be armed resistance, then two ministers agree that the Ministry of the Interior will provide that action and that's how the job ends. The tax inspector is not an internal affairs authority, and don't play with it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24265	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Gordana Pop-Lazic submitted to the 140th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24266	Article 140 regulates the criminal application procedure and obliges this member of the State's Prosecutor to consider the criminal application referred to in the preceding article within three days of the date of receipt and to consider its decision (in paragraph 2) on this criminal report - be careful now - to inform the Head of the Tax Police within eight days of the decision-making day. So the D.A. has to report to the chief of the IRS what he did on criminal charges. I warn you that the D.A. is acting solely in accordance with the D.A.'s law and any other law cannot impose any obligation on him. What's the consequence if the D.A. doesn't do it within three days or if he doesn't notify the chief of the IRS what he did with the criminal charges? There's no consequence. You introduce a legal mess, you don't follow those basic laws, you don't follow the criminal law, you don't follow a criminal procedure, you don't follow a federal or a republican level, and you want to impose an obligation on a state prosecutor. It's clear to me that you have here for the purpose of efficiency, you want to quickly settle for criminal charges when it comes to tax crimes, but that doesn't allow you to turn everything upside down in the organisation of justice. And what if we need some research? If a public prosecutor has to ask an investigative judge to carry out some investigative actions, he can't respect this deadline and you've tied his hands; then he can be ineffective and removed under this public prosecutor's law and be written as a minus. That's what you bring down to the D.A.'s office on someone who's supposed to report to the head of the IRS. What now becomes this tax police in the state -- becoming a state in the state, and we really shouldn't let that happen. Therefore, this amendment requires the removal of the entire article 140. I think in the Constitutional Court, this member of the 140th could fall.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24267	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? There is a word from MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24268	Every time a law is written it must be considered whether it will be possible to achieve it in practice, will it be applicable? You can write a lot of things here, you can write here the obligation of a football club to be a champion this year, but it just won't make anyone bound. You are now saying here, in two positions of this member, that the Attorney General is obliged first to take the report into consideration within three days, and then to inform the IRS what he did for the application. And I could understand that, back there, in criminal provisions, and that's impossible for you to write to the D.A., that it says, "if you don't act in accordance with article 140, you're going to be fined 5,000 dinars, two months in prison," I would understand that law. So someone has an obligation to do something, and the law ultimately says, if he doesn't do that obligation, from that member, he'll be punished like this and like this. And you're saying here, it's the D.A.'s office to consider a report within three days, and what happens if he doesn't take it into consideration, who sets up the state's attorney? Who decides? So where exactly did you hit the D.A.? Why don't you file a complaint with the district attorney? Why don't you file a complaint with the county attorney? And where exactly is the D.A.'s office? And how can he answer, in front of the neighbors, because he didn't take the report into consideration? So you know how many criminal charges there are in the country, is that one man, a state prosecutor, going to do everything? And why are you bound by the U.S. Attorney's tax law to something that is not regulated by the law that regulates its function? Why don't you enter in the State Prosecutor's Law a provision that he is required to proceed within three days on the criminal charges of the tax police? That would be understandable to me. Well, then in that law, there'd be sanctions for a state prosecutor. And in tax law obliging the state's prosecutor, it's only written to intimidate taxpayers, that to God's state prosecutor will discuss whether or not they have been taxed.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24269	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Cedomir Jovanovic submitted amendments to Article 149 and Article 151. It's a bill of law. The government has accepted these amendments, the Finance Committee has also accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers these amendments legally possible, so I realize that these two amendments have become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The amendment, in the same text, was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Jovanovic, Rajko Baralić, Jovan Todorovic, Nebojsa Jovic, Slobodan Tomović and Hranislav Perić, and MPs Bozidar Vucurović, Đorđe Mamula, Cedomir Jovanovic and Milorad Stanulov. The government and the Finance Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 167th Amendment was submitted by MP Cedomir Jovanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Ambassador Bozidar Vucurovic claims his amendment has been rejected. We'll check the government report. But since it's about the amendment in the same text... He has the word National MP Bozidar Vucurovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24270	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the government report said my amendment was rejected because Mr. George Mamula's amendment was accepted. That's how it stands, it doesn't look any different. They're not in the same text. He says, "Article 165 is deleted," and I say, "Article 165 is deleted." I had four preconditions to accept my amendment before Mr. George Mamula's amendment. The first thing I handed over at 10:35 and Mr. George Mamula at 16.55 p.m. Secondly, which is my amendment in writing, because Mr. Mamula says in an explanation with this member that this would cost the state. Costs cannot be collected, can be increased or reduced. Thirdly, me and the minister are called Bozidar, so I guess it's more natural for him to accept Bozidar's amendment than for Gjorgev. But, apparently, ladies and gentlemen, the marriage counselor at the marriage counsellor managed to save the DOS-DSS marriage, the marriage counselor is William Montgomery, and the DOS repays the DSS in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24271	I ask the government's representative, finance and economy minister, does he accept the amendment of MP Bozidar Vukurovic, who submitted to Article 165? (The Prime Minister accepts the amendment. ) The 171st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Radojko Petrovic, Ljubomir Mucic, Dragan Jovanovic, Dusan Cvetkovic, Milan Jankovic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 172 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Cedomir Jovanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Stanulov. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Radojko Petrovic, Ljubomir Mucic, Dragan Jovanovic, Dusan Cvetkovic and Milan Jankovic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Is anyone answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendment, in the same text, is submitted to Members of the People Dragan Todorovic, Jovan Todorovic, Ljubomir Mucic, Hranislav Peric and Milan Jankovic, and MPs Aleksandar Vukic and Djordje Mamula. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 176 of the amendment, in the same text, the national MPs Dragan Todorovic, Jovan Todorovic, Ljubomir Mucic, Hranislav Peric and Milan Jankovic, and Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic, are in the same position. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is anyone answering for this amendment? The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24272	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment that I have submitted to Article 176 refers to what we referred to this morning not as a lack but a failure, in terms of direct opposition to certain provisions of this law to the Constitution of the SRJ, no matter how much you respect it, or not, we see it through your making so-called. Constitutional statutes; they are contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, to the federal law on criminal proceedings and to the Republic of Criminal Law. Why am I saying that? For reasons of the fact that criminal provisions are mentioned and tax-listed amounts in the case of tax evasion, so-called tax evasion. black traffic is directly opposed to these laws which are in force and represent a direct entry into human freedoms and rights, in the principle of the protection of human freedoms and rights, which was also discussed by Prof. Vojislav Seselj this morning. We are aware of that, and every country in the world, that there are those taxpayers, whether they are physical and above all legal persons, who are going to change the laws on the tax procedure, or they are passing other laws, and even those you call systemic, to seek certain holes in the law and the possibility of closing them by tax evasion. It's a relative thing now in different countries. There's data in our immediate environment that says it's the so-called. black traffic in the achieved social product highest in percentages in Italy, around 33%, in Switzerland 4.1, then a little further in Japan 4.2, etc. We do not have information from Minister Djelic that he has established since he was in office, that is, in office of the Minister of the Republic of Serbia, what is the degree of tax evasion, and we openly suspect that this report would be valid because we have seen that by selective application of certain legal provisions, the adoption of that phantom law, which is also opposed to the federal Law on the founding of the tax system, the Extraprofit Act, does not come to an equality of taxpayers but to selective application.... (President: I warn you of an excessive amount of time. Here I go. Therefore, all criminal - legal norms in the state cannot be respected in this way by the finance minister, the legislator, therefore, designing such a legal proposal to introduce those elements, such as tax evasion, into the Tax Administration Act, because these things are contained in laws that are in force, because these are older laws that I have spoken of. It can't be assumed in this way that someone wants to, just because it's assumed by the minister or the people of the tax police, the tax administration, that they're tax evasion, and maybe it's someone who, because of the inaccurate legal formulation, can't carry out everything that the state asks of him. That's why it's best not to mess with this kind of legal project and it's best that these criminal provisions, and all the amendments of the SRS go that way, are simply deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24273	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments, in the same text, were submitted jointly by MPs Dragan Todorovic, Jovan Todorovic, Ljubomir Mucic, Hranislav Peric and Milan Jankovic and MP Miroljub Veljkovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. Is anyone answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendments, in the same text, were submitted jointly by MPs Dragan Todorovic, Jovan Todorovic, Ljubomir Mucic, Hranislav Peric and Milan Jankovic and MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. Is anyone answering for this amendment? Here's a word from the People's MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24274	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs of the SRS are in principle investing amendments to all these members of the law that regulate tax offences, with the explanation that we have given in the principle debate - in order to preserve the legal order. We are against the fact that crimes are prescribed by special laws even though the minister said we already have 45 such laws that regulate criminal-legal matter. That's not an excuse, unfortunately, that's the time, that criminal-legal matter is codified and it's in one place if we want to build a modern legal order. However, this Article 178 speaks of a threat to tax collection and tax control. Of course, I'm asking for an entire member to be erased, but as pointless as he is, I'm going to try to give you the benefit of the doubt. It speaks of the punishment of one who, in order to threaten tax collection, which is determined by him or another person, will be punished in the process of forced collection (this is always about moving things) or tax controls hides, alienate, destroy or do unusable things that are subject to forced tax collection, which is something that is worth it in the house. What can it be - a refrigerator, a TV, a computer, I don't know what's in the household that can have some number as a used thing, and we've known that we've been using the same household devices for years. What's going on? It may happen that children, knowing that all these devices are on the list, can simply take away, for example. The TV to your friend, the other kid takes the computer to his friend and so on. Dad has to go to jail for a year. Come on, tell me, is that possible in practice? It's possible in practice. That's why this is illusory what you're writing. These are ridiculous things to put into law like this. You've got a criminal code, you can take it... Minister, can't you? Is such a situation possible? Is it possible for your child to take Sony Play Station and take it to his friend? There isn't? You have a laptop. All right, take the laptop and take it to your friend and hide it and you have nothing to... Yeah, you destroyed what's the subject of forced payment and went to jail for a year. It's not funny. It's a reality. Because the one you prey on means there's nothing else you can take from him. You took that away from him. He can get the kid and the cow out of the barn somewhere and hide it. You got it. He can let her go to pasture and never find her. Nothing's funny. It's life stuff, but you have to get a little bit of thinking when you're writing the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24275	Is anyone else answering for the amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendments, in the same text, were submitted jointly by MPs Dragan Todorovic, Jovan Todorovic, Ljubomir Mucic, Hranislav Peric and Milan Jankovic and MPs Tomislav Nikolic and Đorđe Mamula. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The amendment, in the same text, was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Todorovic, Jovan Todorovic, Ljubomir Mucic, Hranislav Peric and Milan Jankovic, and MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. Is anyone answering for this amendment? Here's a word from the People's MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24276	Thank you. In fact, Article 180 is a member of 147, representing a criminal offence provided for in Article 147. The criminal law of the Republic of Serbia -- illicit trade, the sentence is three months to three years, is scheduled for six months to three years here. I don't understand why an apparent crime with the exact same qualifications is the same thing as a criminal offence here and in Criminal Law, you put it into this law at all. And, which law will you apply in case there is a violation of this... Please. Ladies and gentlemen, we have tried, here, to convince you that this whole chapter of the law relating to criminal provisions, to the tax crimes, is absolutely excessive in this law, that they have their own panda in Criminal Law (maybe one of them has no concrete pandan), but that the same can be overcome in an adequate way, that you should have accepted these amendments. You didn't accept them on your soul. We're moving on to some legal mess, but it's what it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24277	Does anyone else sign up for a word? Yeah. ) Here you are, MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24278	The amendments to these tax offences were aimed at showing Serbian citizens how far the government has gone to accept some of its fact that the tax is more important than anything else. We have submitted an amendment to Article 179 which was absurd, I will not use a harsh word. But for an assault on a militiaman who would have been inflicted on him a minor physical violation by the Criminal Law, a sentence of three months to a year was prescribed. For an assault on a tax officer, with the same minor physical injury, you've predicted a sentence of a year to three years in prison. So for all of us, we're doing the same thing. The one carrying, say, the mail bag wasn't protected, and the one carrying the tax bag was protected like a white bear. He can't, unless he's protected by a bus conductor, a fisherman, a guard, a mailman, if he's not a militia officer, which is how you single out those who belong to the tax authorities, that no one on the street should look at them. We've been trying to tell you that the tax system and the tax administration need to be settled, but that every single one of these stores requires you to think about the taxpayer. You mean meeting your obligations to the World Bank, the IMF, and one day they'll be so pleased with your work, they'll praise you publicly. We here, like in Argentina, are going to break windows and ask for a piece of bread because the state has been meeting all their demands for years. This law is this guy. The citizens of Serbia will remember this debate, and they have had opportunities to see it on TV. He'll remember the attitudes, the attitudes he's been making around here. I'll remember when I'm old, and it's quick to wait for me, as you've almost all nodded my head out of the O.R., and you'll press a second button. That's the duality of morality I see in you. It's not good for this law, that's what Minister Djelic needs to be told. You better tell him because he doesn't care about your political destiny. The way he came, that's how he's gonna go. Maybe faster. You stay here to share both good and evil with us. The minister here has been calling for the past 10 years, and he can't even say where he's been for the past 10 years. What 10 years in Serbia, Minister, you have no idea what was going on and why it was. So I urge you, correct this law, force the minister to write a law according to the scope of this state, according to the scope of these taxpayers. Then there'll be taxes. Here, he knows, he's full of taxes. (President: Time. If he admits to you, he'll say he's full of taxes for this year, filled up, which is why he's cutting income. We'll see the final budget bill. There's something he can hide, and there's something he can't do, Minister. We'll see how much you skin us for not paying the people extra taxes. We'll be against this bill, you haven't shown good will to fix it, and you think about its application.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24279	No more logins for the word on this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Radojko Petrovic, Ljubomir Mucic, Dragan Jovanovic, Dusan Cvetkovic and Milan Jankovic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 196 of the amendment was submitted by MP Cedomir Jovanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legal, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The amendment, in the same text, was submitted to Article 196 by MPs Miroljub Veljkovic and Djordje Mamula. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed a search of the bill in particular, do we ask if the promoter wants a word? Yeah. ) Here, the word has the finance and economy, Mr Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24280	I'd like to thank everyone. I'd just like to say again: as last year's great effort was made to unite tax matter, as far as material laws are concerned, where we had what was supposed to be called excise, and it was a small part of what was charged on excise products, this law, as far as the procession of tax matter, we codify, introduce order. Also, as we have seen through this discussion, I repeat only the engagement of our government that, by the end of this regular session, we will propose amendments to the Criminal Code that will continue not only in this matter, the tax, but also in some other elements, such as customs, if that goes down to the Republic by that moment. Well, to be able to also codify what needs to be codified. I would like to thank you and I sincerely hope that this law will be passed both in general and in particular by a large number of parliamentary groups. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-11-19-0.u24281	I thank the Minister and thank the MPs for their efforts. I'm concluding a search of the bill, in particular. I'll inform you of the voting day in good time. Bon appétit. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, the session is attended by 139 MPs and I ask you to insert identification cards into your MPs to determine the quorum. I find that using the electronic system has established that we have a quorum. I would like to inform you that the following MPs will be absent: Stanko Kovacevic, Neda Arnerić, Miodrag Jaćimović, Slavoljub Matic, Radmilo Milosevic, Miroslav Martic, Višnja Nežić, Juhas Atila, Petar Misic and Branko Pavlovic. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. Also, according to members 83 and 84. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that I invited representatives of the Centre for Free Elections and Democracy, the National Movement "Resist", the National Democratic Institute, the Association of University Professors and Teachers of Serbia - the Kolubara Section and the representatives of USAID. I welcome the guests present. I would like to inform you that in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, a new parliamentary group called the Parliamentary Group -- the Democratic Party of Serbia -- is a stand-alone Serbia, which consists of seven MPs. Professor Predrag Stojanovic was appointed MP for the parliamentary group, and Deputy MP Gvosden Jovanovic for his deputy. We continue to work on the established agenda. Before we continue our work, I would like to tell you that the session of the Legislative Committee is scheduled, or I am scheduled to hold a session of the Legislative Committee at 1200 hours. A unanimous decision by the National Assembly to carry out a joint principled search on the draft laws proposed by MP Ivan Andric, and before the opening of a joint principled search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I'm asking the presidents of the parliamentary groups to hand over the list of applications for a word. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda - Proposal for an amending and supplementing the Tax Taxes Act (Common Principled Search with 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7th Points of the Agenda) I am opening a joint search on: - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Taxes on Transport, - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Taxes on Business Profits, - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Tax on Income of Citizens, and - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Excises. I ask if the word "proposer", finance and economics minister, Mr. Bozidar Djelic wants? Yeah. Here you go.
