ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-12-0.u22104	I would just like to say a few words about the specificity of the proposed counter-guarantee law, given that a good portion of the arguments was presented yesterday, in the debate on the previous agenda. As for the proposal to grant counterguarantee to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia for one 100m-euro loan for the needs of JP "Electroprivred Serbia", I would just like to mention a few sentences about three points -- which are financial conditions, which are the purpose of the loan and, finally, which is the wider economic and economic interest of this loan. So let me say a few words about these three topics. As far as the first topic is concerned, the financial conditions are very similar to those proposed for the ZTP. The only difference is in the amount and this time it's 100m euros, the payout dates are in a few days and in a few months different, however, the length of the loan itself is identical. The last payment is expected on 7 March 2016. The conditions are the same, i.e. Eurobor plus one percent, and the eurobor is now approximately 3.5% and the total interest should be 4-5%. All other conditions are identical and you have a note that was split yesterday. The EPS is one of the biggest recipients of the budget last year, which is 3.6 billion dinars from the budget for the needs of the remont; also, the EPS received a large number of large donations and a good share of international aid in 2000, and even in 2001, it was directed towards it because the system was on the verge of collapse. Thanks to these efforts, the efforts made by the Serbian taxpayer through these budget donations, but also by a citizen of Serbia who suffered three increases in electricity prices (by the way, they only got the price by one real level in October 2000, so there was no real increase in the aggregate), we had a peaceful winter, and it was the coldest and most brutal we had in the last 25 years. Of course, electricity is like health -- when you have it, it is normal and minimum to be provided, however, we know well, and we have seen especially in our country for the last ten years what it means when there is no electricity. However, this loan, and there's his interest, is the possibility of going one step further, and a step further is to enter the so-called. capital investments, not just regular remonts, but to do something deeper in the system. Another very important purpose of this loan is to work on a transmission network, because in our country, around 19% of electricity is lost from the moment it is produced and until consumers reach the consumer. We have a lot of problems with so-called. The theft of electricity and illegal connections to the network. However, the experience of the last year, if you trust it with the findings from the EPS field and the competent ministry, shows that it exists as a phenomenon, but of course I generally explain why we are today as a country in the worst situation of the case. Not only that, our country has been cut off from the transmission network in Europe for years, and this loan is a significant step to join again. If we look at the revitalisation and repairs of some plants, we have 3.3m euros for the revitalisation of "Colubare A5" for the boiler plant and water pumps, financing and performing works of construction. Then, we have a 21.5m-euro "Kostolac B" remont -- it's an excellent equipment to increase capacity in the part of the boiler facility in both blocks, and this facility, which has been designed for years at much larger parameters, will finally reach that level. So we have one plant that's going to produce a lot more electricity, and that's going to reduce this imbalance that we have today and that obliges us to import electricity. Finally, there is the HE "Pirot" and there is the end of the river turn in the accumulation lake in Zavoj and that is 2,500 meters, if I remember correctly, which increases the power plant's capacity by 30%. So these three key capital facilities of this investment will raise to what level they should have according to what was projected and thus without some huge additional investment to build new thermal or hydroelectric power plants, we will be able to raise significantly our electricity production. For "Pirot" is 13m euros and there are about 40m euros for the first purpose. Also, 42.4m euros is for trafo stations, because the situation of many of our trafo stations is extremely bad and this loan will allow "Jagodina 4", "Sremska Mitrovica", "Belgrade 20" and "Sombor 3" to be built or built (as regards "Jagodina 4" and "Beograd 20") or expanded (which is the case with "Sremska Mitrovica" and "Sombora 3"). These are four key trafo stations in our territory, and this reliability of electricity transmission is increasing significantly. That's a second intention. The third and last intention is to transfer and there is an estimated 18m euros. It is the construction of the Subotica transmission - "Sombor 3" and the revitalisation of about 100km of key Valjevo-Zvornik-Belgrad-Kostolac transmission lines, which were built between 1954 and 1956 and which have not been significantly improved since then. So, 50 years later, these transmission networks will finally be repaired; then we are preparing a connection to the European network, which will allow us a much easier exchange of electricity and much more sources in case we need imports or if we can export electricity. It's about part two and the three key purposes of this loan. The last thing is the wider economic significance of this loan, of course through numerous public procurements. There are a lot of equipment that our country has never produced, there will be work for some international houses that produce it, but there will be a lot of work and for our domestic suppliers. Through a remont of EPS (which last year showed a chain effect when it was first created in a long series of years) a whole series of our companies had been employed; a good part of the metal complex, the building complex lived thanks to that remont. What is foreseen in this year's budget, it is 3.9 billion dinars and we will propose in the budget's rebalancing to increase this by 750 million dinars for additional EPS needs. This loan plus another tranche, you remember the guarantee you voted two or three months ago, all that allows the EPS to take one real step this year after 15 years, in the right direction for its revitalization. It's a chance for their co-operative suppliers, but it's also a more reliable supply of electricity, a more reliable trafo station, less loss on transmission; all this means tomorrow avoiding electricity imports, which costs a lot. One normal energy situation in our country, railways, roads, the entire infrastructure is a key prerequisite for attracting domestic and foreign investment. That's why we suggest you pass this counter-guarantee law.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-12-0.u22105	I thank the Minister of Finance and Economy, Mr. Bozidar Djelic. Do they want the word of the chairman of the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee? No, they don't. ( ) Do the words of representatives, or presidents of parliamentary groups, want? Yeah. ) Please, the word is by MP Jovan Todorovic, the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group at this point in the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-12-0.u22106	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr Djelic, the SPS was under discussion yesterday during a debate on the adoption of the Law on the issue of counterguarantee for the needs of the ZTP highlighted a set of issues that we think should be considered most seriously, so that we can come to a situation where we also tell this assembly and citizens where this country is going in terms of duties. Of course, no socialist or citizen who thinks well of this country is the questionable need to invest certain funds in revitalising the electricity system, but several important issues are being raised in this regard that we believe the government, and especially the Ministry of Finance and Economy, must seriously consider them. Ladies and gentlemen, I remind you all that our electricity industry until 1992, until the introduction of sanctions by the Security Council and the European Union, was an exporter of electricity, and that in previous decades many funds were invested in the development of the electricity system. Unfortunately, because of sanctions and later on because of the bombing, it was a matter of functioning the system in a way that would ensure that both the economy and the citizens operate according to the standards of Europe and the needs of life in our country. The amount of 100m euros in credit to be approved by the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which is its headquarters in London, is certainly not enough to solve these accumulated problems in the electricity sector. It is a significant indicator that we need to talk very quickly about how much we will take credit from the international community in this time and who will return these loans in the future. This is also a key issue, because Mr Djelic's exposure to the fact that by investing 100m euros in the revitalisation of the electricity system will employ some domestic capacity, that this will trigger certain economic activities, which we do not dispute. The question is how to repay loans that have been returned these days, these months, since the DOS came to power, they take, I would say, uncontrollably. Uncontrollably, among other things, because one economic policy is run at the level of the federal state, and another economic policy is led at the level of the Republic of Serbia. Simply, if today I were to ask one of the responsible people in both the federal and the republican government how many loans have been taken over the last year and a half, how many donations have we received, how many direct investments, I believe there might be several different data from two sources. It is well known to all, and to those who do not deal with economy and finance, that when looking for financial resources for certain investments in our country, then it is clear that they are the most favourable source of donation. Not the donations we've had in the past, which went in this direction that those who grant us donations actually finance their economy, produce certain products or equipment or goods of broad consumption, and then actually give us that product, not money. The credit is the most unfavourable variant for the development of a single country's economic and economic system. What our government and the people responsible for finance in our country did not fight, is that foreign investors invest funds as direct investments in both state and social enterprises. Unfortunately, over the past year and a half, we have no direct investment in our economy, if about 60 million dollars are excluded that are directly invested in the development of economic capacities in the region of the Republic of Serbia and the SRJ in total. The land in debt would also have to think about how to repay those debts. People who run a serious economic policy fully understand that the only perspective of the countries in charge, which is certainly SRJ, is to set appropriate priorities among which exports, secondly exports, are to thirdly. I'm sure Mr. Djelic will agree with this. Why? In order for us to be able to borrow loans, we need to have before us the fact that that country that can make about one third of the foreign exchange inflow to pay off liabilities, both by old and current loans and based on the principal and on interest, has a reason to be in debt. Secondly, exports, because there is no real possibility that our Yugoslav and Serbian economies will be involved in the international exchange of work, unless we encourage production, and the one that is export-oriented. We know what the possibilities of the Serbian market are; we know what the opportunities of the Yugoslav market are; we know what the possibilities of citizens are and how ready we are and how much we are able to buy the relevant goods of broad-use, how much we invest in equipment, and how much in other investments, from household to factory. If we know that, then we know that these opportunities have been narrowed down to the extreme and that the only real market is exports. So, exports to Europe and around the world. To export, we have to have the right conditions here and we have to have a real course. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a fact that from June 2000 to June 2002, our rate is 30 dinars, or the euro is 60 dinars. Everything in this country has changed, prices have gone beyond 150% since that June of 2000, only 30 or 60 dinars remain. Is it stimulating and stimulating for production that is export-oriented. Opponents of dinar devaluation will tell me it would trigger a chain reaction in terms of price hikes. I agree with that. A serious state and a serious economy must find a way to encourage those companies that can export. From that export we can cover imports and we can service our international obligations taken on the basis of credit, on the basis of guarantees, on the basis of interest and all other financial obligations. Unfortunately, that's not happening to us right now. We have a fact that the IMF has granted us $800 million for so-called. The stability of the dinar. Ladies and gentlemen, I remind you that this $800 million cannot be used for any other purpose than to preserve such a course of dinar. However, it is possible, but only in short periods and it is intervening, from these resources of the National Bank to intervene in the interbank foreign exchange market, but still in order to maintain such a course. What exactly is that course for? It serves to possibly say in some statistics that our gross wages are now 200 marks compared to October 2000, and then they were 100. And what can be bought for the 200 marks today, clearly for everyone, could be more for the 100. The next question we have to ask here is whether any of those representing the DOS regime in this country will seriously raise the issue of war damage based on the bombing of this very electricity system that we are to finance today from the credit that is due to be approved by the International Bank, or the European Union. Reasonable people ask if they actually bombed the power system so that today they can give us commercial loans from which to finance that commitment. Ladies and gentlemen, in the last year and a half, no one, from the federal level or the republican level, has dared to ask this question to those who have just brought this power system into a state that we must and in this way finance it in order to revitalise it. I'm sure you all know, that's what you've found, your group of G-17, a group of experts found that direct damages based on NATO bombings are 31 billion dollars, that indirect damages based on NATO bombings are another 50 or 60, as much as 70 billion dollars, which makes 100 billion dollars. Is there any reason that no one at the level of the federal state, from the level of the Republic of Serbia, would ask that question to the international community? Is there any reason that we're in charge, and that same world, that same international community owes us? I remind you of the United States. Gentlemen, 300 million dollars is owed by the United States of America to our country. (President: Mr Todorovic, will you use the next 10 minutes? Yeah, I'll use it. They owe our companies and banks 12 full years, with interest of 6% a year. That interest is 101%, which, along with that principal, would cost $600 million. Mr. Bush finds it appropriate to inform his congress that in the next year he's frozen our funds in Washington. So it's 600 million dollars, it's about 700 million euros. We are talking today and yesterday about how we will and will be in charge of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for 157 million euros, to invest in what this same America, which does not give us our $600 million, crashed during NATO bombing and destroyed during ten-year sanctions. Reason requires that this issue be opened very quickly. Reason requires that we cannot look forward to the so-called aid and generosity of the international community of $40 million, and that the same international community owes us, only America, 600 million dollars. This country has claims from others. Mr. Djelic, you know we have requests from Russia over three billion marks or, if you will, a billion and a half euros. What did it do? From 1992 to October 2000, this country did not go anywhere, except in the Chinese arrangement maybe about 300 million marks or, say, dollars. But since 1992, our external debt has increased from 7 billion to 12.5 billion. How did that happen, ladies and gentlemen? By the fact that the international community, which now helps us, calculated interest rates, calculated tight interest rates, prescribed it to the principal, and increased our debt. Then, apparently, we achieved great success at the Paris Club when they forgave us two-thirds of our debt. Gentlemen, you know what they forgave us? It's the kind of interest they didn't even have the right to account for during the sanctions. That's the point. When we wanted to do that at the London Club, we failed, even though we announced such success on all the bells. We have such a situation that the DOS in the media, in the newspapers, in all possible ways of meeting the illusion of how the international community invests in the economy, reconstruction and development of SRJ and the Republic of Serbia. There is no such thing, gentlemen, because if there were, production wouldn't have been constantly falling, citizens in this country wouldn't have lived worse and worse, we wouldn't have increased the number of unemployed from 700,000 to 800,000, with one dark perspective that only during this year 2002 would we have fired another 500,000 people. If there was such a means, this economy would come alive, this people would live better and there would be no problem. The next issue to be raised regarding this guarantee or this counter-guarantee is the issue of electricity prices. Right at the moment when the law on the borrowing of electricity, or the Republic of Serbia, is discussed in this assembly, in order to move capacity, reduce loss, increase service quality, etc., we have information (we all read in the paper, listen to our Minister of Energy) that there must be an increase in electricity prices, at least 100%. Gentlemen, I ask you how we will then implement, let's say, a strategy for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, which has recently been discussed on the Committee on Development and Economic Relations, where, among other things, it is required that those companies that are in these months and these days start to come into such a situation that they do not pay twice the price of electricity (I am talking about the present state), to level the price with the price paid by citizens etc. Now we're going to get to the point where we have to increase the double price of electricity. Citizens who pay and this price can't pay. They can't pay because they don't have any receipts. They don't have receipts because they're unemployed, although they have a working relationship in companies that this government has failed to start. Gentlemen, these are the facts you must face as a responsible government and responsible government. There's not a single company in this country that hasn't worked that's been running since the DOS came to power. There are a lot of companies that have stopped, which were working the moment the DOS came to power. (loud from the O.R.): Don't talk. I want to talk, sir. Don't throw it away, because these are facts, and only facts can shake you. We boasted on television, in the media, that the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development granted us a new $2 billion and $100 million loan, but we didn't want to say that we only paid back the old debts from that 2 billion and 100 million. It wasn't our debts, gentlemen. These were the debts of the former Yugoslavia, that of Yugoslavia, which founded the IMF, among 38 founding countries was, which was an orderly debtor. But during the sanctions, you got interest bills, tight interest bills. When you came to power, the continuity of the SRJ was interrupted. That's why the trustees got scared, so they made a new arrangement, approved you a new loan to get your old one back. No cent of that loan remained in the Yugoslav economy. That's true, Mr. Djelic, you know that. In any case, by finishing this exposure, I invite you to do whatever is possible to make the economy work; then we will be able to repay the debts. And by then we'll be in debt; especially if we know the fact that that country that has a gross national product in the course of one year is less than the total debt has no chance of surviving. So we can't borrow uncontrollably, we can't have deficit budget financing, we can't take credit from the international community to finance spending. That's not possible. This case is an exception, but it is a loan. It's not a direct investment, it's not a donation. That's what we, as socialists, can never agree on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-12-0.u22107	Do any of the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word on this agenda point? There is a word from MP Dragan Markovic, president of the SSK parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-12-0.u22108	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are discussing a loan, and once again Serbia needs to be in charge, to take some money. The question is asked Minister - what is the source of Mr. Minister's income, always as you write; make preparations before the assembly session, and write there, and listen here, please. What's it called the source of income and where are we gonna get this loan back from? If you're thinking about getting this loan back over the electricity price, then you're wrong. Our consumers are in a very difficult economic situation. Here, here in my hand I have one electricity bill, it's received by a Mrs. Ilic Milanka; she has two children and an apartment of 30 square meters. She paid 1,016 dinars last month. And now, let me not read you these items, just one item that is very important -- the accounting force is, which is the tax, 768 dinars, and the total energy consumption for that month is 248 dinars. You have introduced a tax that is not suitable for any country of Europe, and this tax is paid, every household that attaches its number to the salary of 20,000 dinars. So anyone who builds a new house asks for an electro-distribution connection, pays a fee of 20,000 dinars, and every month you bring in a tax. This tax on this bill is small, because the total bill is 240 and some dinars for electricity consumption. The four-member family, which has a 60-square apartment, pays from 2,000 to 2,500 dinars of electricity, and does not heat on electricity. If you think this loan will be paid by consumers, specifically by agricultural producers, through electricity prices, they will have no place to pay, Mr. Minister. You said the inflation last year was 40%, right? The price of grain, Mr. Minister, last year was seven dinars, right? If inflation is 40%, then it's multiplying 40 times seven, which is 2.8. So the price of grain this year should be 9.80 dinars, right? You said inflation was 40%. Now the question is -- you say the price of grain will be eight dinars, even the agriculture minister says there will be no eight dinars but seven. He knows in advance that it's not first class, that the percentage of sleekness and humidity is high. That's what the minister, your colleague, said. There's no crop premium. You gave sugar beet premiums, because the sugar tail is very little sown, and you didn't pay the peasants, to those who handed over the sugar beet. That's the difference. Now you're looking over the premium to trick those new ones, and you haven't settled your debt to the old ones. So, if you think you're paying off this debt through the peasants, you're hardly wrong, because for a single-hectare to sow grain, if you pay for plowing, plateing, jerking, 300 kilos of seed, 300 kilos of fertilizer, weeds, weeds, weeds, weeds, when we're paid for balling, when we pay for transport, it costs a thousand marks. In this year, the contribution per hectare is 4,000 kilograms, times seven dinars, that's 28,000 dinars, and 30,000 dinars should be invested by one farmer, plus, Mr. Minister, you say you're an expert, you know that the money on the market is 5% interest per month, so that farmer who invests 1,000 marks is waiting eight months to get some of his money he invested. So 50 marks he has a month, he doesn't do anything. Eight times fifty, that's 400 marks he's got, not to sow the grain. But you wouldn't have anything to eat if the peasants didn't sow the grain. Furthermore, the question arises whether they will be able to pay, ladies and gentlemen, this debt and this loan, educational workers, health workers, police officers. Because 10,000 dinars have cops who have 20 years of work, that's their salary, and every year they have some terrain, per month or two days. Doctors in hospitals pay between 10,000 and 13,000 dinars; educators have a salary of 10,000 dinars. They can't repay that debt through the electricity bill. Furthermore, you, Mr. Minister, have introduced two consumer baskets - a consumer basket with meat and no meat. So where it is, I haven't read it anywhere, that there are two consumer baskets in one country.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-12-0.u22109	Mr. Markovic, please return to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-12-0.u22110	I'm talking about consumers who need to pay back this debt, ma'am, I'm really talking about the subject. It also raises the question whether the debt will be paid back by Serbs from Cosmeta in Serbia, because Serbs from Cosmeta have no place to pay electricity bills. The question arises, Mr. Minister, whether you will create a social programme - you must create a social programme, because there are 10% of consumers in Serbia whose electricity is disabled and where they have no place to pay that electricity, and each month they are charged interest. The question needs to be asked - what are we going to do with these consumers? The question also arises: what about 80% of consumers in Serbia who have not paid off their commitment to spent electricity and have no where to pay from? These days they expect your scissors, which you will send anyway. Sure, ask around. Those who speak to you must be lying to you. Lately, in certain parts of Serbia, people have been able to relax and forget their problems on Sundays, because Sundays are some sporting events, but Serbs in the Raška area can't even relax on Sundays and not think about their big accounts, because when they go to the games, there are Turkish flags, the audience is Scanning "Buco, Turks", and for your information, Buca is the chief of police in Novi Pazar.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-12-0.u22111	Mr. Markovic, I'm really asking you to get back on the agenda, you've reached the fans. (Heads from the hall, sent to MP Dragan Markovic: Shame on you. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-12-0.u22112	You should be ashamed, not me, because that's what your fellow citizens do, and I'll show you material evidence over the tape, I'll send it to you. And let me tell you that the Jagodina handball club barely got out of the New Market alive when they were playing there five months ago, just to let you know that you know. In a city where you live and in a city where your party has power, in a city where the Prime Minister cannot go to talk to Serbs, but on the street he talks because your authority does not give him rooms, and these are Serbian rooms, that is, Serbia, I remind you. We from the SS are in favour of living with you, on equal grounds, that your children play with our children, but not to bring in some languages and wind up Turkish flags. It won't work, just so you know. You're confused. I've never been confused, so I have no reason to be confused. Everything I'm saying is true. I would also like the minister to go out for a pay phone and explain where we will repay this debt; where, Mr. Minister, if production in Serbia falls, if the extra labour force is increasing in Serbia, if some young and capable people who need to finish certain colleges can't do it because you have introduced a scholarship of 160,000 dinars. Where are their parents going to pay for it? And what do you think they are? Because, look, our minister came from Paris; maybe he was an expert there, but he lives in Serbia and has no kitten or dog here, currently sleeping with his aunt on the couch; let him forgive me the minister, but that's what he said.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-12-0.u22113	Mr. Markovic, after two warnings that you are sticking to the agenda theme, which you did not respect, I give you a warning, on the basis of Article 103. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-12-0.u22114	Thank you. Here, citizens of Serbia, if I said something wrong, you saw what the cadiya did right now. Thank you, Mrs. Kadiya.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-12-0.u22115	Second warning, Mr. Markovic, based on Article 103. The president of the DOS parliamentary group, Mr Cedomir Jovanovic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-12-0.u22116	Mrs. Micic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, well, after the essay -- my village, better than Paris, it would be good to go back to facts. So, we are obliged to answer several very important political issues that have been raised here, and above all it was about the volume of donations to our country's economic systems, since we are discussing a counter-guarantee for Serbia's loan. I am obliged to tell you that since October 2000, the international community, in the name of the ECS donations, through its institutions, i.e. states that have concluded contracts with the Republic of Serbia, i.e. SRJ, has channeled to the EPS around 400 million euros; therefore, about 400 million German marks. We already discussed the nature of the loan once when we gave counter-guarantee to 50m euros or 100m German marks to Serbia's Elektroprivred. At that time, we said that these funds would be recovered not from the Serbian budget, but from the revenues that would be achieved by Serbia's Elektroprivreda. In Serbia alone, the electricity system is an inert enterprise. There is no country in Europe where electricity production is not a good job. In the past ten years, the paradox has come to life in Serbia precisely because people thought it was possible to create a utopia in real circumstances that were not favourable to the development of business arrangements, thinking it was possible to create a utopia in which Serbia's Elektroprivreda can act as a humanitarian organisation. By removing these anomalies, we had an inflation of 40% in the previous year, but in this year it will be below 20%, precisely because of the collapse of that disparity price that was unnatural and did not allow those who work and products to live off of that job. It is true that there are 800,000 people out of work in Serbia, but these people have not lost their jobs in the last year. That's what happened in the last 10 years. We're the ones who told them they were out of a job. We are the parliamentary majority who have not passed a law in parliament that makes it impossible for a company that does not work to fire a worker. The law was passed by some other parties, which were the government in the previous decade, in 1992. In addition to 800,000 unemployed, we have about 700,000 people on forced vacations -- a category that does not know the business world. And we have, that's also true, 160,000 vacant jobs, because in the previous period in our society, the consciousness that allows you to choose a job, no matter how much you're not in a position to do something like that. Serbia's electricity will certainly return this loan from its own sources, and this is precisely why it is predicted that the next four years will not return the loan, so that in those four years, the electricity industry will stand on its feet; through restructuring and determining the right price of electricity, the price that society will be able to pay, because there is no reason why such a thing should not happen. If he can in the Republic of Serbia, if he can in Macedonia, if he can in Montenegro, Hungary or in any country of Europe, he will also be able to earn electricity in Serbia. As for the damage caused by Serbia's Elektroprivreda, no one has given up the collection of these war damages. But you have to think in real categories. It is true that the state has filed or filed charges against 11 NATO member states. But before the International Court of Justice in The Hague there are 13 lawsuits, 11 of our lawsuits and two lawsuits filed by BiH and the Republic of Croatia. On the same basis that we're suing 11 of the NATO Pact, they're suing the SRJ. When the funds requested by BiH and the Republic of Croatia are measured from the SRJ and the funds that we are asking for from 11 NATO states are not worth it at all at this time to continue to insist on this process; because, firstly, we will lose this process because we cannot be the drivers of this initiative, since we were not part of the international community at the moment when such a thing happened to us; and secondly, we will open the principle by which we will be able to collect our damages. No one has given up on it, but for a year the whole procedure has been extended, so that the expert team led by Mr. Varadi can find a legal basis to do the job properly, or to Parliament and the Government, who have authorized him to do such a thing, says the facts - if you're playing with fire, you'll get burned, but you decide, and you're responsible. None of them gave up and nobody's happy that the power system was destroyed, but the responsibility is elsewhere again. The responsibility was finally among those MPs who, arguing in March 1999, said it was possible to wage war with the whole world and were not ready to point out the consequences of such a policy. It was true, some of the opposition who had done such a brave thing at the time. There's Mrs. Andric from the Democratic Alternative, who then said everything you're saying today. I don't know if you believed that then. I honestly don't think you did, but I don't think you had much choice, given the concepts you were moving in back then. So, Serbia's Elektroprivreda should get this loan. This is not a credit that will fully meet the needs of the EPS. It is barely 1/3 of the annual needs of Serbia's Elektroprivreda in its regular state. The remonts are planned with about 250m euros, but 10 years have not been done, so we only need about 5 billion marks or 2.5 billion euros to restore the system to function, in which it was in 1990. And this is only 100 million. One hundred million that these people will have to pay back, and they will be faced with such a kind of obligation, regardless of what we won't be able to provide them with all those preconditions so they can work uninterruptedly, because they haven't received the economic price of electricity yet, nor have they received the funds they need to reach the level of quality required of them. Serbia's electricity deserves our support. These people who have managed to preserve the system under difficult conditions must receive financial resources, not political praises. If that was the case so far -- okay, but that's not what you live out of. Don't rub them on the shoulders, do what you have to do, work where the states are in charge, be responsible when you do that job. Don't do it like we did in previous years -- no debate in parliament, through four-eyed talks. Someone owed this country about half a billion in relations with the People's Republic of China. No congregation discussed it. Someone has been borrowing this country on other grounds and solving claims on other grounds. We don't know what happened to the debt the Russian Federation had towards us, but we know that we wrote off 2/3 of the debt through the policy we ran in front of the Paris Club. London Club is a different story; it's business banks. But since one principle is defined in front of the Paris Club, we do not agree to double standards and insist that these banks also respect the economic policy that their countries respect. I believe we'll be successful in that. In any case, the end of the job was not just because of the political problems we have in the country. Because when they think about the write-offs they have the right to ask us for, because contracts are very clear -- and it's not true that we can't charge interest for sanctions, it's just our illusion -- maybe we don't like it, but it's a reality. To the last cent they have the right to insist on their interest and it is their good will that they agree to help us. And, when they're doing something like that, we need to be very clear about telling the facts to our society, because by pushing our heads into the sand first we'll forget that someone helped us with 210m euros. Maybe that's not all we needed, but I don't see why the citizens of Germany, Sweden, Norway, the United States, Austria would pay for Serbian electricity. That's their good service. I thank them for that, but we must create our own values if we want to live a decent life here in Serbia. So I support this counterguarantee as well as the previous one. I hope there's more because it's a loan investment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-12-0.u22117	I thank Mr Jovanovic No MP group mentioned. [[Zarko Obradovic seeks - replica.]] No, you didn't mention it at all. Please, Mr. Obradovic, there is absolutely no mention of your MP group (the MP insists on misreading). No, there's no basis for replication. We'll check the stenographic notes. The parliamentary group is not absolutely mentioned (the ambassador continues to insist). There's no basis for replication, I apologize. We're done arguing, there's no basis for replication. There is no misreading, you are not mentioned, absolutely, nor your group, nor you individually (the MP continues to insist). You know what, we can't argue like this. There's no basis for replication. I ask if any of the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want the word? No, I don't think there's any basis for replication. We'll check in the stenographic notes. No, you used two calls. [[Jovan Todorovic also looking for a replica]] You absolutely didn't mention it. We move to debate according to the statements of the People's MPs for the word. The word has been made by MP Dragan Rafaelovic, the Democratic Party's parliamentary group, and the next reported for the word is MP Rajko Baralic, an MP for the SPS parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-12-0.u22118	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here, again, I've learned by who knows which time we peasants are being taken care of by those who have nothing to do with agriculture. However, I would not talk about it; the most important thing in the whole story is that this kind of responsibility for electricity is needed for Serbia; the Demochrist Party knows that now the foundations of a home state are being laid, which will pay back its debts normally like any household that has them; therefore, we will support this counterguarantee proposal. I answered the word for the stories that went here and I'd ask Mr. Secretary to record some things, to hear what I'm about to say. The trade union "Thermoelectric" Obrenovac and some people who worked in finance provided inspection services to the municipality of Obrenovac data on the so-called The Russian loan, where they say responsibly claim that the goods bought for $150 million, which was supposed to arrive, there's no sign of where she went. If it had been done well then and the money from that loan had been invested properly, perhaps today this loan would not have been necessary, it would not have been necessary for this counter-guarantee. Therefore, as the first part of the job, you should see what was done with the money that was coming and then, like, invested in Elektroprivreda. That's why with this loan, too, it's very careful to invest where it's supposed to go, so it doesn't go back where it doesn't belong. Another important thing about this loan is the information that one director told me: the pipes that came from Russia to Termoelectricus were, firstly, off-class, untested on pressures that could withstand, secondly, even mixed by profiles, by thickness. So, we need to check where that money went and how it's been spent, to get someone to answer for it, because we have a big problem with the "Termoeletrane" Union, and I think the government would have to do something; we didn't do what we could at all. It's important, it's not much about this, but it's an opportunity for me to point to price formation; we at the Demochrist Party think that we should be very careful with the block tariff; in my opinion we have to abolish the mechanism for it to be tempered. And why is that? Because, say, the minister, the director and everyone who works in Belgrade is very little at home, doing clean work, washing machines and all other devices are not used in the house, even lunching somewhere along the way; while the agricultural household that has eight cans, whose washing machines work 10 and 20 times higher, have a lot of cattle, make mixed livestock food and products for this country, enters the blue or red tariff. I think that should be taken into account or excluded from the agricultural households. I wouldn't comment on the other things here; I would just say, I have to because I'm a farmer, that we had a price of wheat that was almost two dinars higher than the European price, and it's now seen in exports; and of course, we're small, we need more, but we need to focus agricultural production on what brings profit and profit. The whole farm business is waiting for this government and this parliament in the coming period; there is also the problem of extra labour. It is true that in many segments of society there is a lot of excess labour, but it is also true that only pensioners can be seen in my village and throughout Serbia in the fields. Those who are out of work won't even think about going back to their own household, let alone working with someone else.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-12-0.u22119	Mr. Rafaelovich, please return to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-12-0.u22120	I'll be right back, but I just, I had to, that was my chance to say. The most important thing in the whole story is the commitment of the Democratic Party for Independent Serbia; the government could go on to realise this project that Serbia is an independent state, this will take longer. But never mind, we support these counterguarantees and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-12-0.u22121	Thank you. The word is from MP Rajko Baralic, the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-12-0.u22122	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, I will quote the Prime Minister of Serbia, who was an MP in this House in 1990 and then said the following thing: "The Socialists have outdone themselves these days. So far, political promotion has cut tape on worthless, but at least existing objects. Yesterday, in Pirot, Slobodan Milosevic opened "Hydroelectrica" Pirot, and there is no lake, there is no central and there will never be electricity." The power plant, from which there will never be any electricity, where there are no lakes and nothing, Minister Djelic, who is known as a cautious man, and the international community, which is very difficult to lend to worthless projects, so for Hydropower Plant Pirot, is determined by 13m euros. It's an unusual context. You've used this information in all the election campaigns you've organized since the opening of this facility to this day. So much for that. Nenad Bogdanović, from the scene: There is no electricity! The stenogram is a miracle. I thank those who work hard to keep it recorded. Here is a sharp SPS representative for this agenda point, Joca Todorovic, mentioned several things concerning the position of "Electroprivreda Serbia" towards the citizens and the state towards the EPS; all this has brought into context with the topic that you are very hateful, but which we must repeat every time we see an opportunity for it, and it concerns NATO aggression. It's immoral and amazing what we just heard from Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic. I'm sorry he's not here, and I'm also sorry that there is no director of the Hidroelocratic Bayin Basta, director of the Termo Power Plant Obrenovac, president of the EPS Management Board and president of the Assembly Committee for Industry, you kicked them all out of parliament this morning. Everyone was very modest and very competent to talk about a subject that's on the agenda today. Two hundred tenm euros, as the Elektroprivreda got on a gift, according to Mr Jovanovic, were the subject of the Committee on Industry on 14 March this year, and all the gentlemen I spoke about attended. Then, among other things, we realized that 210m euros came from various donors, and that was in various forms: electricity for democracy, good services for democracy and a few more things I don't want to say here; so the state got it, they got citizens of Serbia, and the Serbian state charged it through the price of kilowatts. You are obliged to explain that 210m euros in international donations that have arrived in the EPS to buy electricity, to prevent humanitarian disaster, are charged by citizens of Serbia, what is the legal basis for that charge, and I would like to see the elements of that calculation. That's what I'd like to hear from Mr. Minister, but he's having some party talks with the Democratic Party people right now. Two billion dollars is a direct damage suffered by the EPS in NATO aggression. You can say whatever you want, you are required as a government, if you claim to be responsible, to ask that question where it should be. If China charged 25 million dollars from America for what's-his-name. collateral damage when their embassy was torn down, how much would have been charged when all the systems were destroyed, all the power plants in the country. To talk about the responsibility of those who were playing fire because someone set someone's house on fire is immoral, senseless and a politic, whatever you think of it. The price of kilowatts is 5 cents in Serbia. Average household consumption in Serbia, which has no specific energy requirements, ranges between 1,000 and 1,500 kilowatts, between $100 and $150 per month. We, of course, have no objection to the price of electricity being commercial; we are only against easy expectations, since we are not able to explain to anyone, that this can be paid with an average salary and income of 200 marks per month, or 100 euros. Here we also heard a claim from the head of the parliamentary club, Mr Jovanovic, that America and all other creditors had the right to collect interest on all the loans we received during the sanctions of the international community. Of course, when you tie someone's legs, then make them compete with you and win, then you seem to have come a long way ahead of him. Why didn't they give us interest on funds frozen in financial flows by international financial organisations, the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund? Why aren't our funds credited with interest? (Dimitry Jovanovic: Who are you? We and you in this sense are spoken of both the state and the people, not the parties; for those who earn. There are a few questions here that deserve answers and I think that questions are correct; Serbian citizens expect an answer to the question of whether or not they will look at international courts -- and not in these fictional ones, but in these real ones -- to pay war damage. You have to say no, we can't, we can't. It is a political stance, you declare it; take responsibility for the political position you have expressed and take risks with your target group. It's simple. You can't keep your mouth shut about the questions that are being asked about this. The last thing; the EPS expert advice in 1994 adopted a document to build a multi-purpose accumulation, which would be financed by 90% of electricity, 5% of the water industry and 5% of the citizens of these five municipalities, which so far invested 107 million dollars in this system, as part of the Rzav regional water system. Since 1996, no single dinar has been invested in this system, and every day the number of users increases. Citizens of these five municipalities owe no one anything and the only credit they pulled on this basis is $5m from the American Commercial Bank, which was returned in 1996. Please create conditions to discuss this. The project costs 35m euros; there are nine MPs in this assembly who are directly interested in what I say and represent 500 000 people. The budgets of these municipalities have regular and quality charging dynamics and are able to, with certain guarantees, be given by the Government and some of the business banks, enter into an investment that is valuable for these five municipalities; and it concerns, among other things, the EPS, that someone does not warn me not to talk about the subject. So I ask you, Mr. Minister, at the time that you determine, if you wish, to receive MPs and officials from these five municipalities that I have listed. We're ready to expose what I've been talking about here in detail.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-12-0.u22123	The word has been given by MP Miroslav Markicevic, the DOS-New Serbia parliamentary group, and it is the last registered speaker on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-12-0.u22124	Dear Presidency, Mr. Minister, I would like to say immediately that the New Serbia parliamentary group will vote in favour, or will support the granting of counter-guarantee; but I am taking this opportunity for a few questions. The first concerns investment in the EPS, because we all know that for ten years it has not been invested in these repairs and no one normal in this country is disputed that it must, but what citizens feel today towards the EPS, they feel it is one of the pillars of the Milosevic regime that has not changed even 5%. I'll give you an example: in the town of Cačak, until yesterday's SPS member crossed the DOS party and became the director of EPS; the citizens surrounded himself with bodyguards and security. I'm telling you here - you government officials will be responsible for what will happen very soon in Chačka. In October 2000, we prevented angry citizens from breaking in and throwing out their thermoaccumulation furnaces that they use in spite of citizens, defying the government and everyone, from acting as a state in the country. The electricity network in the Municipality of Čacak is in very poor condition and municipalities, although there may be no authority, somehow made an agreement to fund it - 50% distribution, 25% of citizens from the pocket and 25% of municipalities. Imagine that a local community is late with the collection of money to buy a basic power supply for ten days and distribution charges interest on that part of the funds. It's really one rude thing to do. I think the SPS personnel, who are not removed from distribution, are doing this on purpose and are obstructing. Please, Mr. Minister, with your colleagues and Minister Novakovic, who is directly in charge of this, think carefully about the words I am telling you until it is too late.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-12-0.u22125	Replica, MP Zarko Obradovic, president of the SPS parliamentary group, mentioned in the presentation of speakers Miroslav Markevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-12-0.u22126	Dear colleagues, the respected presidency, this is a replica to the presentation of colleagues, previous MPs and those claims he made regarding our party, mentioning in the negative context of President Milosevic and the work of the EPS at the time. I owe it, on behalf of the SPS, to say a few things that absolutely stand. Someone for the past 10 years could have been made small or large, depending on what he wanted to do with the price of electricity, but it was suitable for the economic opportunities of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we say it directly and we stand behind it, whether you like it or not. If the country's only goal is to get the last dinar out of the citizens' pockets and make a profit in the interests of several individuals, then that's the government's goal. That wasn't our goal. We kept the electricity price as much as our citizens could pay, and it is well known that those 1990s were without any foreign aid; without being able to get any credit; our funds were frozen abroad and we could not get any of those funds; we had three civil wars in the environment, 600,000 to millions of refugees received; the destruction of those who bombed us in 1999 in 78 days -- all of these are the reasons that conditioned the electricity price as it was, and we are absolutely behind it. The second thing: the fact is that EPS had direct and huge damage during 78 days of bombing and who won't say it doesn't speak truth or people's language -- he's lying; the fact is that graphite bombs have been dropped, electrical installations and plants are directly affected; it's all a fact and that, of course, should have been restored then, and it's not at all controversial. One logical, moral and political question arises: why does the issue of war damage compensation go around the issue of damage done to the Republic of Serbia, damage done to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia?- I'm sorry. Why is there no mention of 100 to 150 billion direct or indirect damage done in 78 days of bombing?- I'm sorry. You can't just speak unilaterally. No one is in this country against donations, but it should be said that it is also known to be 0.01% compared to the damage they have done to us. To glorify it, and not say a single word against it, is indeed the hypocrisy of its kind.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-12-0.u22127	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the principled search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, and what right have they not used? (They don't want to) I'm finishing the initial search. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. Since amendments have not been tabled on the proposal for this law before I conclude the search in particular, I ask if the word of the proposing, finance and economy minister, Mr Bozidar Djelic? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-12-0.u22128	I'd just like a few sentences, to answer some questions and some misunderstandings that were born in the discussion. First of all, as regards the situation in the EPS itself, I would not speak on behalf of the resolute minister, but obviously it is one of the things that has not been done in the last 16 months; it is not only in public enterprises, it also concerns those organisations where I am responsible. Let me put it diplomatically -- there hasn't been enough refreshment, it's something that's been waiting for us, and there's a lot of work going on. And that's why you're going to have one point on the agenda next session, I think that's the third point, if you adopt that agenda, where you're talking about a new possibility of reviewing the efficiency of those who work in one way or another for the state. This will allow elders in ministries, directorates, and in various places to make this necessary refreshment. So that's what this is all about -- it's being prepared and I think the other half of this year is going to make a lot of progress in that area. As far as the railways are concerned, until April of last year, you must remember, as many as 3% of the sales tax was due to go to rebuild Belgrade's ZTP infrastructure. That's how it was supposed to be. When you read what money was supposed to be spent on, then you see that from those massive tracks, locomotives, remonts, and so on, there was nothing. But large cabinets, non-intentional spending of money and how it was, as well as suspicious re-exports and many other actions that are now subject to several criminal charges. I can tell you that there's a lot of work to be done at this point. We will discuss this more when the final budget account comes in 2000 and the additional budget inspection report; you will see that the ZTP is certainly not bypassed. As for the EPS, of course, when you get instead of a financial one credit, it is also important to check the quality of the goods - because then everything is played out in the parity and quality of what you could possibly get; in case you go through a financial loan and then implement public procurement. Of course, the objective circumstances I wouldn't want to look back on right now may not have allowed the country to be in charge at the time. It's certain we have a lot of problems, and this is one of the examples where the merchandise wasn't what it was supposed to be, or it wasn't on time. We've got a lot of rusty things standing in the EPS warehouses that haven't been used. That money today is asking Russia to come back. The last thing, as far as hiring our economy itself, is to give just a few names of companies that will certainly participate, which is a big job for them in the next few years; these are: "Termoelectrico", "Minel", "Vunisol", "Shamoth" - "Arangelovac", "Cables" - Jagodini which we talked about, "Energoproject" construction operation, "Sever" - Subotica and siats of others. Last year somewhere between 40,000 and 60,000 workers were directly involved in the EPS remont. This year, through these additional investments, we expect this figure to be significantly higher. That is why we suggest that on the day of the vote you adopt this counter-guarantee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-12-0.u22129	I thank the Minister of Finance and Economy Mr. Bozidar Djelic. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle and in general. I'm setting a break until 4:00; I'll see you at 4:00, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-12-0.u22130	Ladies and gentlemen present MPs, the session in the afternoon will continue at 1700 hours, as the work of the Administrative Committee is still under way and due to the preparation of the report for normal work in the afternoon, the announced start at 16.00 is moving to 17.00 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-12-0.u22131	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please insert identification cards into your MPs in order to determine the quorum. I find that using the electronic system has established that we have a quorum. You have received reports from the Republic Election Commission and the Administrative Committee of the National Assembly. Having obtained the conditions, I propose that we establish a mandate for Members of the People's Parliament in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for vacant seats, in order to enable them to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You have been presented with a report by the Republic Election Commission on the selection of MPs in order to complete empty parliamentary targets in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Also, you were presented with a report by the Administrative Board, which found that conditions had been met for confirming the mandate to the MPs, with a proposal for the National Assembly, as set out in Article 27(5). The Law on the Selection of People's MPs finds confirmation of the mandate to the MPs: Zoltan Sombati, Ozren Karamati, Goran Rakovic, Goran Bulajic, Milorad Jaksic, Jovan Radojić, Milet Koricanac, Radoslav Nektarijević, Slobodanka Vasić, Željko Ozegović, Bojana Jaksic, Dragan Kosanovic, Dragan Radović, Glazden Ristic, Vitomir Tomanovic, Niko Kostić, Milivo Ribać, Katica Rauški, Ivan Josimov, Nebojsa Miletic, Zlatko Petrovic, Miroslav Glava, Dragomir Krivokić, Kosti Milosevic, Aleksandr Trkulja, Miodrag Maksimović, Zivina Stjepic, Nebojsa Milic, Zlatko Petrović, Mirović, Miroslav Glava Glava, Dragomir Krivić, Kosović, Kostivić, Kosti Milošić, Kos, Kostivić, Kosti Milović and Dragi Gradić, Dragić, Dragić, Dragić, Dragić, Dragić, Dragić, Dragić, Dragi Štić, Drag, Dragiić, Dragišavić. On the basis of the report of the Republic Election Commission and the Report and the proposal of the Administrative Committee, and in accordance with Article 27(5) thereof. Law on the election of MPs, I establish the mandate of the MPs: Zoltan Sombati, Ozren Karamati, Goran Rakovac, Goran Bulajic, Milorad Jaksic, Jovan Radojić, Milet Koricanac, Radoslav Nektarijević, Slobodanka Vasic, Željko Ozegović, Bojana Jaksic, Dragan Kosanovic, Dragan Radović, Glazden Ristic, Vitomir Tomanovic, Niko Kostić, Milivo Ribač, Katica Rauški, Ivan Josimov, Nebojsa Miletic, Zlatko Petrovic, Miroslav Glava, Dragomir Kristokić, Kosti Milosevic, Aleksandr Trkula, Miodrag Maksimović, Zivina Stjepić, Dragišavić, Dragišavić, Dragilić, Dragišić, Dragilić, Dragišić, Dragišić, Dragišić, Dragiović, Dragišić, Dragišić, Dragiović, Dragišić, Dragišić, Dragišić, Dragišić, Dragišić, Dragišić, Dragišić, Dragišić, Dragišić, Dragišić, Dragišić Congratulations to the MPs of the election. We have two short notices. I would like to inform you that the secretary of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Georgia Maric, resigned from the post on 12 June 2002. In accordance with Article 36(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure, the secretary of the National Assembly, ceases his post before the end of the time he was appointed to: by resignation or resolution, so I find that Georgia Maric, by resigning, has ceased his post as secretary of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Third notice - I inform you that I am in agreement with Article 81(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, set Thursday, June 13, 2002, as the day for voting on the agendas of the Second Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002, starting at 10.00 p.m. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the Second Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, the session is attended by 140 MPs and I ask you to insert identification cards into your MPs to determine the quorum. I find that using the electronic system has established that we have a quorum to work with. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Mirko Rosic, Vlasimir Budimovic, Sima Radulović, Adam Urosevic, Slobodan Pavlovic, Predrag Stojanović, Jelena Milenković, Petar Petrovic, Dusan Cvetkovic, Zoran D. Nikolic, Zivko Selaković and Momcilo Trajkovic. Milos Lucic announced a delay, while Miodrag Stamenkovic announced his absence for the morning. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. Also, according to members 83 and 84. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that I invited representatives of the Centre for Free Elections and Democracy, the People's Movement "Resistance" and the National Democratic Institute to this session. I welcome the guests present. As the National Assembly concluded a debate on the 4th item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Local Elections, on the fifth item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Counterguarantee of the Republic of Serbia to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia to pay off commitments under the mandate of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and on the 6th Point of the Agenda - Proposal for a Law on the granting of counter-guarantee to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia to pay off commitments under the responsibility of the JP "Electroprivreda Sreba" at the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which is agreed to Article 140. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we move to a decision on the above-mentioned draft laws in principle, detail, and generality. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Local Elections. Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision on the proposal for a law on local elections. I put the draft laws on local elections to the vote, in principle. For 118, against 22, the abstentions were not voted by two, of 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the draft law on local elections in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. I remind you that during the search of the Bills, it has been found in particular that an integral part of the Bill's proposal has become the amendment of the People's MPs Vukosav Tomasevic, Vladimir Dobrosavljevic and Bojana Alexic to the members of the 14th and 50th and amendments of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to Articles 20, 26 and 42. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Joca Arsic and Rade Bajic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 21, against 120, the abstentions were not voted by three, of 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 22, there are no abstentions against 119, four of the 145 MPs have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Joca Arsic and Hranislav Peric. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 22, against 120, the abstentions were not voted by four, out of 146 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 9th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Nebojsa Jovic and Golub Rajic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 22, against 120, the abstentions were not voted by four, out of 146 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Rajko Baralic and Dusan Cvetkovic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 19, against 119 abstentions, there was no vote of 8 out of 146 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Todorovic and Hranislav Peric. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 20, against 122 abstentions, 6 of the 148 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 16th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Toma Busetic and Ljubisa Maravic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 17, against 121 abstentions, there was no vote of 10, out of 148 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 18th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran D. Nikolic and Djura Lazic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 15, there are no 123 abstentions, 9 did not vote, out of 147 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 18th Amendment, with correction, was filed by MP Vojislav Seselj. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 19, against 118, the abstentions did not vote 10, out of 147 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 19th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran D. Nikolic and Djura Lazic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 19, against 120, the abstentions did not vote 8 out of 147 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Olgica Kircanski, Rodoljub Sabic and Meso Omerovic together submitted an amendment suggesting that a new member of 19a be added after article 19a. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 24, against 107, a abstentioned one, did not vote 15, out of 147 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Radojko Petrovic and Sreten Mitrovica. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 17, against 120, the abstentions were missing, did not vote 10, out of 147 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 25th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Jankovic and Rajko Baralic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 19, there are no 121 abstentions, 7 of the 147 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Vukosav Tomaševic, Vladimir Dobrosavljevic and Bojana Aleksic submitted the 26th amendment together. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 11, against 121, two abstentions, 12 did not vote, out of 146 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Vojislav Seselj submitted to the amendment of the 33rd. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 14, against 121 abstentions, three did not vote 8 out of 146 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 38th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vladimir Garčević and Rade Bajic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 17, against 119, two abstentions, 9 did not vote, out of 147 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 39th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Djura Lazic and Dragan Jovanovic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 17, against 123 abstentions, there was no vote of 8, of a total of 148 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Zoran Cirkovic submitted to the 40th amendment. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 44, against 81, abstentions 7, did not vote 16, out of 148 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dragan Markovic submitted to the 40th amendment. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 16, against 118, the abstentions were not voted 14 out of 148 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Zarko Obradovic and Sreten Mitrovica submitted together to the 40th amendment. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. There are no abstentions for 21 against 119, not 8 votes, out of 148 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Zoran Cirkovic submitted to the 41st amendment. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 57, against 73, abstentions 7, did not vote 10, out of 147 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 41st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Golub Rajic and Nebojsa Jovic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 21, against 121 abstentions, there was no vote of five, out of 147 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Cirkovic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 57, against 79, with five abstentions, did not vote 6, out of 147 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 42nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Todorovic and Vladimir Garcevic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 19, there are none against 119 abstentions, 9 did not vote, out of 147 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 17, against 117 abstentions, there was no 13 vote, out of 147 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Slobodan Tomovic and Branko Ruzic submitted together to the 44th amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 25, against 118, there are no abstentions, five did not vote, out of 148 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Vojislav Seselj submitted to the 55th amendment. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 19, against 121 abstentions, there was no vote of 8 out of 148 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration submitted to Article 55 of the amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 32, against 104 abstentions, four did not vote 8 out of 148 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 56th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Radojko Petric and Ljubomir Mucic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 18, against 119 abstentions, there were no 11 votes, out of 148 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 56th Amendment was submitted by the Committee on Justice and Administration. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 22, against 113, three abstentions, 12, 150 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Vukosav Tomašević, Vladimir Dobrosavljevic and Bojana Aleksic submitted together to the 59th amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 13, against 117 abstentions, there was no vote of 19, a total of 149 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 59th Amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For three, against 116 abstentions, there were no 29 votes, a total of 148 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Bosko Ničić, Nebojsa Leković, Ljubodrag Grbić, Milorad Stanulov, Bratoljub Janacković, Siniša Mitrović, Slobodan Radulović, Zoran M. Angelković and Ružica Veljović submitted together to the 61st amendment. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 17, against 97, a abstentioned one, was not voted 19, a total of 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 61st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Todorovic and Milos Nesovic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For one, against 113 abstentions, there were no 13 votes, a total of 127 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Vukosav Tomašević, Vladimir Dobrosavljevic and Bojana Aleksic submitted together to the 62nd amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For there were, against 115, abstentions, not 11 votes, a total of 126 MPs. I ask MPs from the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group to insert identification cards into parliamentary units because it is their obligation. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Ljubisa Maravić, Đura Lazic and Sreten Mitrovica submitted together to the 65th amendment. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 19, against 115, there are no abstentions, 12 did not vote, a total of 146 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 66th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Joca Arsic and Zoran R. Angelkovic. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 17, against 121 abstentions, there was no vote seven, a total of 145 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Vojislav Seselj submitted to the 67th amendment. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 16, against 121 abstentions, there were no votes six, a total of 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the draft law on local elections in general. I'm putting the draft bill on local elections in general. For 123, against two, abstentions, there were no 11 votes, a total of 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed most of the votes a bill on local elections, in general. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: - PROPOSAL OF THE CONTRAGRANTION OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA TO THE CONNECTIONAL REPUBLIC OF THE SUBMISSION OF OBLIGATION BY THE BELGRADE OF THE EUROPEAN COUNTRY FOR REFERENCE AND Development Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the draft law in principle and in particular, we move to a decision on the draft law in principle. I am putting to the vote the draft law on the granting of counterguarantee to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia for payment of commitments under the mandate of the ZTP Belgrade to the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development in principle. For 125, against 13, the abstention one, was not voted by three, a total of 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill in principle by majority. Since the National Assembly has adopted the draft law in principle and no amendments have been submitted to the bill, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I am putting to the vote the draft law on the granting of counter-guarantee to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia to pay off ZTP "Belgrade" commitments to the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development in general. For 126, against four, abstentions, there was no vote of 12, out of 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the draft law on the granting of counterguarantee to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia to pay off the commitments of the ZTP "Belgrade" to the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development in general. We move to the 6th item of the agenda: - PROPOSAL OF THE MARRIAGE CONTRAGRANTION OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA TO THE EUROPEAN REPUBLIC FOR THE REFERENCE OF OBLIGATIONS BY THE JP "ELECTROPREVRED OF SERBIA" TO THE EUROPEAN BANK FOR THE REFERENCE AND Development As the National Assembly has carried out a review of the Bill's proposal in principle and in particular, we move to a decision on the draft law in principle. I am putting to the vote the draft law on the granting of counterguarantee to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia for payment of commitments under the responsibility of the JP "Electroprivred Serbia" at the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development in principle. For 125, against one, the abstentions were not voted 16 out of 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has adopted the draft law in principle and no amendments have been submitted to the bill, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I am putting to the vote the draft law on the granting of counter-guarantee to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia for payment of commitments under the responsibility of the Public Enterprise "Electroprivred Serbia" at the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development in general. For 125, against one, the abstentions were not voted 16 out of 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on the granting of counterguarantee to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia to pay off commitments under the responsibility of the Public Enterprise "Electroprivred Serbia" at the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Having considered all the points of the agenda and deciding on them, I hereby conclude the session of the Second Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002. Good-bye and good-bye.
