ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19309	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the First Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002. I would like to inform you that according to official record today's session, 174 MPs attend, and to determine the quorum, I would ask the MPs to insert identification cards into the MPs. I figure we have a quorum and we can keep working. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Emilia Krstic, Stevan Lilic, Stevan Guduric and Dusan Tubic. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. Also, according to members 83 and 84. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that I invited representatives of the Centre for Free Elections and Democracy, the representative of the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities of Yugoslavia, representatives of the Student Union of Serbia, representatives of the Alliance of Students of Belgrade and students of the Study Group for Constitutional Law at the Faculty of Law of the University of Belgrade. I welcome our guests. You received the minutes of the 2002 National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia session held on 22, 23, 24, 28, 29, 30 and 31 January, 4, 5, 6, 7, 11, 12, 13, 14, 18, 19, 20, 21, 25, 26 and 27 February 2002. Is there any objection to the record? The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj has the word. I remind you, according to Article 85(2). The Rules of Procedure, on objections to the minutes, shall be decided by the National Assembly without delay.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19310	I have an objection to the record in part concerning the 3rd and 4th points of the agenda. During that agenda, a number of Serbian Radical Party MPs took away the word by breaking the Rules of Procedure. Since this confiscation of words has led to some more concrete consequences such as financial punishment and the Serbian Radical Party will sue, or each MP will individually sue the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, it is necessary that the part of the minutes be more detailed. It has only been found here that a word has been taken from the MPs and that the MPs have submitted their written presentation. However, neither in the stenogram of the session, which is a semi-official document, nor in the minutes, which should be the official document after the adoption, has the whole of the attached text, although 15 MPs have adapted the text of the same content, especially when you took away the word if you mentioned Ljubomir Jovanovic the Glass, the shooting of Peter Panic and the kinship with Cedomir Jovanovic. I demand that the full annexed text be an integral part of the record, because the court will, under official duty, request that record. It is not possible to express so many disciplinary measures that the minutes do not show exactly why these disciplinary measures were imposed. Secondly, it is very important, since these things that Serbian radicals have pointed to today are repeated in an even more rigid form. Here's the freshest case, the kidnapping of Milija Babovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19311	Please, there's no review of any objections to the record. You made your point.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19312	I'm just explaining my insistence to enter the record in full. If you do not accept in full, then it is said in two sentences that you took away the word of Ljubomir Jovanovic, his shooting of Peter Panic with eight bullets and the kinship of Glass with Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19313	Of course, Mr. Seselj, you know that - according to Article 111 paragraph 4, the text is entered in the stenographic notes in a given form without leaving out any words or expressions, so in a given form. Since the People's MPs of the Serbian Radical Party were deprived of the word, we could not have included it in the stenographic notes, nor in the record and those written statements will be in the documentation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. In any case, I would like to put on the vote of the remarks announced by MP Vojislav Seselj at the minutes of the First Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002 and ask the MPs to make a statement on the objection to the minutes. For 51, against 109 abstention one, did not vote 46, a total of 207 MPs. I find that no objection has been received to the record stated by MP Vojislav Seselj. Is there still an objection to the record? No, there isn't. ) Since there are no further objections to the record, we move to a decision on the record in general. I am voting on the minutes of the 2002 National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia session held on 22, 23, 24, 28, 29, 30 and 31 January, 4, 5, 6, 7, 11, 12, 13, 14, 18, 19, 20, 21, 25, 26 and 27 February 2002. I ask the MPs to declare themselves by voting on the record in general. For 147 against 51, the abstentions were not voted 15, a total of 213 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the 2002 session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's First Extraordinary Session. You have received Dr Zoran Radovanovic's resignation as MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and a report by the Administrative Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the examination of this resignation, with a proposal that the National Assembly, pursuant to Article 88(2) and Article 2(3). The law on the election of MPs finds the end of MP Zoran Radovanovic's mandate on the day of his resignation. In accordance with Article 88(2) and paragraphs 2 and 3. The Law on the Selection of National MPs of the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Administrative Committee, finds that before the end of time he was elected to MP Zoran Radovanovic, elected from the Socialist Party of Serbia's election list -- Slobodan Milosevic. According to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the vacancy in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be completed. You received a request from the president of the Serbian Unity Party, Borislav Pelevic to establish the end of the mandate to the MPs Dr Jovan Deretic and Zoran Novakovic, elected from the election list of the Serbian Unity Party - Prof. Borislav Pelevic and the report by the National Assembly of Serbia on the examination of this request, with a proposal that the National Assembly, on the basis of Article 88(1) point 1 and paragraphs 2 and 3. The Law on the Selection of Members of the People's Parliaments states that the term of office of these Members of Parliament should be suspended. In accordance with Article 88(1) and paragraphs 2 and 3. On a proposal from the Administrative Board, the National Assembly finds that the term of office had ceased, before the time to be elected, to the MPs Dr Jovan Deretic and Zoran Novakovic, elected from the electoral list of the Serbian Unity Party - Prof. Borislav Pelevic. According to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the discharge of seats in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be carried out. You have accepted the resignation of Momcilo Perisic as deputy prime minister of the Republic of Serbia. In accordance with Article 203(3) of the Treaty, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have been informed of the resignation by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. I remind you, Article 203 is Section 4. The Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly, stipulates that the National Assembly, at the first next session, finds itself without a search that a member of the Government is a member and that it is not decided. In accordance with Article 203(4) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly finds Momcilo Perisic resigned as deputy prime minister of the Republic of Serbia's government. In the context of this session, which was delivered to you with a supplement, the draft agenda for the session was contained. Before setting out the agenda for the session, in accordance with the rules of the Rules of Procedure, we need to decide on proposals for putting on the agenda of acts under emergency procedure and on proposals for amendments and additions to the proposed agenda of the session. Suggestions to consider an emergency procedure. We move to a decision on proposals for an urgent procedure. A group of 23 MPs from the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group suggested putting on the agenda an emergency procedure to propose a decision on the education of the polling committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to determine the circumstances and facts related to the role of state institutions and individual politicians in the destruction of the Jugoscan company, which submitted to the National Assembly on 30 October 2001. According to Article 159(4), point 4 is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of each proposal for the agenda of acts under the urgent procedure of the National Assembly shall decide without search. I am voting on a proposal from a group of 23 MPs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19314	When we filed that request three months ago, we asked that it be placed on the agenda by emergency procedure. Since it's been so long and we haven't been able to secure an emergency procedure, then it should have been automatically placed on the agenda by regular procedure. We no longer insist on an emergency procedure, but where an emergency procedure is not accepted, especially where it is not accepted in three months, according to the Rules of Procedure should be included in the agenda by regular procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19315	It's nowhere in the Rules of Procedure, that's not what it says. I therefore put to the vote the proposal of a group of 23 MPs of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group to put on the agenda the proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's National Assembly Committee to determine the circumstances and facts related to the role of state institutions and individual politicians in the destruction of the Jugoscan company. For 62, against 112, two abstentions, were not voted 40, a total of 216 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dejan Mihajlov proposed that the draft law amending the law on court fees, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 6 March 2002, be put on the agenda. I would like to put the motion of Parliamentarian Dejan Michael to put the draft law amending the Law on Court Taxes on the agenda of an emergency procedure. For 74, against 110, a abstentioned one, was not voted 35, a total of 220 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the draft law on the financial support of families with children, which submitted to the National Assembly on 18 March 2002, should be put on the agenda. I am putting on the vote by the Government of the Republic of Serbia to put the draft law on financial support for families with children on the agenda after an urgent procedure. For 167, against one, the abstentioned did not vote 52, a total of 220 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this proposal by the government. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the initial basis for redecorating Serbia-Montenegro's relations, which it delivered to the National Assembly on 22 March 2002. I am putting on the vote by the government of the Republic of Serbia to put on the agenda, following an urgent procedure, the initial basis for redecorating Serbia-Montenegro's relations. For 157 against 29, the abstentions were not voted 34, a total of 220 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the draft law amending and supplementing the health insurance law, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 22 March 2002, should be put on the agenda. I am voting on this proposal from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. For 157, there are no, no abstentions, no vote 64, of a total of 221 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the draft Law amending and supplementing the Health Protection Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 22 March 2002, should be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 156, there are no, abstentions, no vote is 65, out of 221 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this proposal. We move on to proposals for the withdrawal of certain points in the draft agenda of the session. National MP Cedomir Jovanovic suggested withdrawing from the proposed agenda the 20th point -- a draft law repealing the NRS government's resolution that abolished the University of Belgrade's Bogoslovic Faculty as a state institution, which submitted 37 MPs to the National Assembly of the DOS Group -- Dr Vojislav Kostunica -- the Democratic Party of Serbia on 2 November 2001. Does the promoter want a word? Three minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19316	Mrs. Micic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected and welcome observers, this is a welcome initiative, but the Republic government is already taking decisive steps to correct the injustice that was committed in the early 50s to the Serbian Orthodox Church and our society by exempting theology from the system of organised education. In a joint working group formed by representatives of the Serbian Orthodox Church, theology and competent ministries of the Republic government, I am primarily referring to the Ministry of Faith and the Ministry of Education and, of course, to the assistance of the Ministry of Finance, a solution to this problem has been found, so in itself, this initiative, although well-intentioned, has been overcome by this solution. It would therefore be a good idea to withdraw it itself, given that it is a request from the Church itself and from the participants in this dialogue. I think it would be unnecessarily necessary for us to classify it as a part of the agenda of voting law which will repeal a regulation which, in a legal sense, does not have a mark in the archives of the Republic government, but should be done as planned through that kind of agreement, so by regulation and through the law on the university, precisely to the extent to which it is foreseen by the promoter, but in a more consistent and comprehensive manner, given that it is a product of joint work and agreement. This would question everything that was agreed on, given that the process of resolution would be extended, because it is as the 20th item of the agenda itself something that is likely to be the subject of our debate in May of the month. Before that, this will be settled because, practically, the solution has already been found.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19317	The word is wanted by MP Milan Radulovic, authorised representative of the motion for an act whose withdrawal is required.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19318	Dear Members of the People, there is no reason to withdraw this item of the agenda. The legal proposal we've made, as you've seen, is very simple and only has two members. The first is abolished, and from the point of view of then legislation, an illegal regulation to exclude the Faculty of Education - which was, I recall, in 1905 as the first in the membership of the University - from the University. The regulation was not only anti-constitutional but had no foothold in the University Law. From the point of view of today's legal order, the university can only be established or abolished by law. No deal, no government regulation will solve this problem. The new government regulation will only continue continuity, i.e. it will extend the same route as the government that made this gesture. The regulation cannot replace the law. The second member of the legislative proposal that we tabled left freedom to the government, the Faculty of Education and the Serbian Orthodox Church, who took over the university after its abolition in 1952, to agree on the consequences of the act, to agree on how these consequences could be corrected. Sooner or later, however, this question must be resolved in the National Assembly, not in the Government. I don't see any reason why solving a simple question like this, and basically important, is stalling. It's better to save him in time. This includes talks conducted by the government’s working group and representatives of the Faculty of Education in no way invalidate. They just get a legal basis and legal coverage to be led. Talks held have no legal basis in the current legal order. Since the current legal order provides for the establishment of a university only by law, as well as their eventual abolition, it is necessary to first abolish this illegal regulation and enable it to return, on the basis of the abolition of the regulation, to the University of God's Faculty, to recognise the continued membership of the Belgrade University from 1905 to today, and then to regulate its status in the composition of the University in the manner in which Mr. Proposer mentioned, so in concrete and precise arrangements of the Government and the University of Bogoslova.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19319	I am putting on the vote by MP Cedomir Jovanovic to withdraw from the proposed agenda the 20th point -- a bill to repeal the NRS government's resolution that abolished the University of Belgrade's Faculty of Education as a state institution. For 112, against 75, the two abstentions, were not voted 35, a total of 224 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal of MP Cedomir Jovanovic. National MP Cedomir Jovanovic suggested withdrawing the 21st item from the proposed agenda -- a motion for a no-confidence vote to the government of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted to the National Assembly by 23 MPs of the SRS parliamentary group on 13 March 2002. Does MP Cedomir Jovanovic want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19320	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would ask you to listen carefully, since our vote is accompanied by some responsibility. In denying the support of the previous initiative that was voted on, I do not recognise a bad intention towards the subject itself, but I would like to introduce you to the fact that you have extended the solution to the problem for two months and that you have done so without any consultation with those whose problems you intend to solve. So you haven't consulted the Serbian Orthodox Church, you haven't consulted the Faculty of Education and you voted in... (President: Mr Jovanovic, please return to this proposal. ) As for the issues raised here in full procedural agreement and with support, among others, and the DOS parliamentary group, we believe that the opening of a debate on the trust of the Republic government, on the party's initiative that did not vote for the formation of the Republic government, would in fact only be a waste of time. All political disagreements should be resolved in Parliament, all parliamentary groups should participate, but we expect both the public and Parliament to demonstrate the kind of responsibility that will contribute to improving the situation in our society. So, the idea of the SRS is legitimate, but it cannot come across the support of the DOS parliamentary group in Parliament, since we consider it, essentially, to be a formal initiative, but completely impractical and dysfunctional, since it is not a party that has given confidence to the Republic government during its constitution. The parties formed by the cabinet of the Prime Minister, Mr Djindjic, have the right to open the issue at any moment and we will be very happy to enter that kind of debate. Discussing SRS proposals for the DOS parliamentary group actually means wasting time, because the party, in itself and everything it demonstrates in Serbia's political life, does not deserve such a thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19321	Thank you. The word is made by MP Vojislav Seselj, an authorised representative. (Milan Radulovic: Replica. You didn't mention it. The word is made by MP Vojislav Seselj, the authorised representative of the applicants of the proposal, whose withdrawal is proposed. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19322	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I know that Cedomir Jovanovic would not want this item to be in the agenda. The whole Serbian government would not want this point to be on the agenda. And that someone even filed an initiative to vote on mistrust of the government. Cedomir Jovanovic's request to get this point out of the agenda has been completely deplaced. It's impossible without a flagrant violation of the Constitution. The Constitution guarantees the right of 20 MPs, in Article 93(3), to apply for a no-confidence vote to the Government. We filed and he must be included in the agenda. It says, it says. [[Zagor in the O.R.]] Rules of Procedure, Articles 199 and 200. Article 199 rewrites a provision from the Constitution, says at least 20 MPs can submit a proposal. The President of the National Assembly immediately sends this proposal to the Prime Minister and to the MPs. The National Assembly meeting to discuss the government's trust, which is a member of 200, or one of its members, shall be held at the earliest of three days, and no later than 15 days after the date of submission of the motion for a non-confidential vote. Today they are here, in this House, students of law school. Why didn't you escape before them today to violate the Constitution, when you were so persistently breaking it for more than a year and when you had already abolished the Constitutional Court. Now Cedomir Jovanovic says, a party that has not voted for the government cannot demand a no-confidence vote from the government. Why don't you write it in the Constitution? Why don't you write it in the Rules of Procedure? I know you have a problem with the opposition. Then call off the opposition. When you can kidnap Milija Babovic and you don't know about him for three days, it's much easier for you to lift the opposition by decree. Set up a guard, these mobsters from Surcin at the door of the National Assembly, they won't let us in and we're done. It's a better way than to explain that a political party that hasn't voted for the government can't ask for the government to be shot down. Earlier, when the law is in collegiate with Cedomir Jovanovic, Chad applies. Now you've introduced a new rule... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... When the constitution is in collegiate with Cedomir Jovanovic, Chad applies.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19323	I am putting on the vote by MP Cedomir Jovanovic to withdraw from the proposed agenda the 21st point -- a motion for a vote of mistrust to the government of the Republic of Serbia. For 117, against 35, with abstentions, did not vote 73, a total of 225 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the proposal of MP Cedomir Jovanovic to withdraw this agenda. We're moving on to proposals to expand the agenda. National MP Prof. Dr. Branislav Ivkovic, president of the SPS parliamentary group, suggested that the agenda be extended to the new point -- an initiative to open discussions on relations in the Federation, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 31 January 2001. Three minutes, according to Article 87. Rules of Procedure. National MP Branislav Ivkovic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19324	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as president of the SPS parliamentary group as early as 30 January 2001, I submitted an initiative to open a debate on relations in the Federation of then-Presidents of the National Assembly, Mr Marsican. For the sake of truth and fact, let me read, and with the warning of a lady who is always impatient when I speak, what is then written. "The crisis in Federation relations these months (i.e. January 30th 2001) is experiencing its maximum. It is undeniable that it is the most important state and national issue, and the solution of which depends on the continued fate of Yugoslavia and of all the peoples and citizens living in it. The SPS MP group at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, starting with the need to preserve our state union, believes that these issues go beyond the narrow party interests, and that their resolution requires the inclusion of all relevant political entities at the federal and republican level. Detention of the debate or any decision on this issue only in party forums or parties in power would be historically irresponsible (as shown). That is why we propose that the President of the National Assembly, in accordance with Article 221. The Rules of Procedure, get in touch with the President of the Greater Citizens and the Greater Republic of the Federal Assembly and the President of the Assembly of the Republic of Montenegro, and with the participation of the President of the SRJ and the President of the Republic of Montenegro and Serbia, the representative of the Federal and Republic Government, organises and provides a debate on relations in the Federation." In fact, we are witnessing these days that six citizens of the SRJ, whether they are in the right functions or not, have taken responsibility to negotiate with a representative of the European Union and sign a document calling "the basics" for a new state of Serbia-Montenegro. Signing the document directly signed the preconditions for the separation of the SRJ Constitution and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. We will discuss this in this room, but the fact is that it was absolutely done by the leading parties, or parties that are now in power. These parties that are now in power have and have a historical responsibility to provide a consensus on key issues for the survival of this country, about the country's offspring, of all political factors. It is certain that there are those national interests which both the opposition and the positions have reasons and interests, as well as the obligation, and moral and formal, to agree. That DOS, the ruling coalition headed by Kostunica, did not provide. Here we demand that the debate be opened and that representatives of all political factors, presented in the republican congregations and in the Federal Assembly, sit down and discuss, regardless of the signed document. The European Union is a reality and needs to be co-operated with the European Union. At the very least, it is not fair that this European Union is sending Solana here, to end up at the green table what began on March 24th... (President: Time, Mr. Ivkovic. )......................................................................................................... but we have an obligation, as people think, to agree here in this room to hand over to the MPs of Montenegro and the Federal Assembly and to provide a way towards forming constitutional proposals that provide a normal state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19325	Thank you. I am putting on the vote by the National MP, Prof. Dr. Branislav Ivkovic, to extend the session's agenda to a new point - Initiative for opening discussions on relations in the Federation. There are no abstentions for 64, no abstentions, no four, a total of 227 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted this proposal to expand the agenda. National MPs Zoran D. Nikolic and Dragan Tomic have suggested that the agenda be extended to a new point -- a bill to abolish the government's decision of the Republic of Serbia, No. 713-6483/01, since 28 June 2001, which they submitted to the National Assembly on 2 July 2001. Does MP Zoran D. Nikolic want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19326	On behalf of the SPS MPs, I submitted a draft law repealing the government's decision of 28 June 2001, to my fellow Members of Parliament, I with my colleague Dragan Tomic, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary club in this assembly. It is the famous government decision that it decided, establishing international co-operation, to directly apply the UN tribunal's statutes. First of all, I would like to say a few formal things - in accordance with our Rules of Procedure, Rule 135, draft law, which is prepared in accordance with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, can be included in the agenda of the National Assembly session within no less than 15 days and no longer than 60 days from the date of its submission. Exceptionally, the deadline of 60 days can be extended by 30 days, and the president of the National Assembly will inform the MPs of the reasons for the overrun. So we have one act that has fulfilled all the formal reasons to be found in the congregation procedure and we have one silence of the congregation majority and refusal to put it in the process, despite the express provisions of the Rules of Procedure. We also have one silence from the President of Parliament which, without respecting the express provisions of the Rules of Procedure, refuses to inform the MPs why this bill is not in the draft agenda. And now, a few words about the essence - I will remind you that the government's decision to deliver, that is to say, the kidnapping of former President of the Republic of Serbia and SRJ Slobodan Milosevic, and his delivery to The Hague tribunal, in violation of not only the provisions of Article 47(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, already Article 17(3). The Federal Constitution; a decision has been broken, i.e. Decision of the Federal Constitutional Court of 28 June 2001 prohibiting the application of the Regulation on co-operation with the international criminal tribunal, as well as any acts and actions related to this Regulation. In the meantime, you know that the Federal Constitutional Court has made a final decision to repeal that regulation. It is a new circumstance which seems to me to strengthen the political and any other responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Serbia for what it has done, and in that fact, it has not only violated the Constitution and numerous republican laws, but in fact abolished that constitutional protection that is provided to every citizen, every individual, every citizen of the Republic of Serbia. And that act, that act, will certainly find a place in Serbian history, but in addition to the unquestionably political and any other responsibility of the government of the Republic of Serbia for this act, I am surprised by this silence of the assembly majority, which certainly has the strength to express its relationship with this issue. Obviously, the assembly majority in this House is also not a calm conscience when it comes to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19327	Thank you. I am putting on the vote by MPs Zoran D. Nikolic and Dragan Tomic to extend the session's agenda to a new point -- the draft law repealing the Government of Serbia's decision, 713-6483/01, since 28 June 2001. For 103, against 120, the abstentions were not voted by 6, of the ukno 229 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Prof. Dr. Branislav Ivkovic, president of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, suggested that the agenda be extended to the new point - a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the deprivement of freedom, kidnapping and delivery to The Hague tribunal of the president of the Socialist Party of Serbia, Slobodan Milosevic, who submitted to the National Assembly on 15 August 2001. Please, the word is by MP Branislav Ivković, to explain the proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19328	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, you voted on this proposal at the first session of the autumn session last year, and you rejected this proposal. In the meantime, assessing that there have been new circumstances and that some events in the last two weeks suggest that some DOS party representatives understood and understood when suddenly 24 hours did not know what was going on with their party friend, jointly preparing for the 24 September 2000 election and preparing for October 5th, and all that was happening on October 5th, we assessed in the SPS parliamentary group that it would be good to update the proposal for you to form a polling committee in the National Assembly of Serbia, which will consider all the facts and circumstances under which he was arrested, kidnapped and delivered to The Hague tribunal by President Slobodan Milosevic. Everything that has happened with General Perisic is precisely a cause; what has happened with General Perisic is assessed and we believe that it is necessary to leave it to the prosecution and the military judicial authorities, that alone, in peace, assessments and assessments of the extent of the responsibility and all that has happened. In the SPS, we feel good about the pogroms that have been applied to our members in the last year and a half to two, and because, through the press and the media in advance, many things have been judged. But the very fact that one part of the leading party in DOS has expressed concern, and this concern, and in media transmissions, had the opportunity to find out what happened and what happened to their other and coalition partner, shows us that we have the right to expect from you in DOS just to be prepared to form a polling committee, which will finally give an answer - who knew that what was going on on on March 30th, a year ago, who was informed, not only in DOS, was someone and outside DOS informed of what was going on and how smart people, with one wisdom and patience, managed to prevent disaster, killed a large number of people and killed Slobodan Milosevic? Who made the decision, on the basis of what, is it constitutionally justified, whether the Serbian Constitution was violated or not, that Slobodan Milosevic was kidnapped and extradited, whether the investigative judge Cavlin, in whom, I say, the possession was his prisoner, gave consent to treat his prisoner or not, who was the deputy, or the assistant minister of justice, who allowed himself to sign a warrant for execution? So we have a lot of grounds and rights to expect from you, if we want to be a legalist country, to be well measured on the committee of inquiry, where they will be representatives of all parties in this House, what has been happening since the former president, twice elected, the Republic of Serbia and the SRJ. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19329	I am putting on the vote by the National MP, Prof. Branislav Ivkovic, to extend the agenda to the new point - a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the deprivement of freedom, kidnapping and delivery to The Hague tribunal of the President of the Socialist Party of Serbia, Slobodan Milosevic. For 65, against 119 abstentions, there was no vote of 45, out of the ufno 229 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal to expand the agenda. National MP Prof. Dr. Branislav Ivkovic, president of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, suggested that the agenda be extended to a new point -- a proposal to vote for a non-confidential vote by Minister of Labour and Employment Dragan Milovanovic, who submitted 31 MPs to the National Assembly of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group on December 12th 2001. Do you want a word? No, I don't. ) I am putting on the vote by the National MP, Prof. Dr. Branislav Ivkovic, to extend the session's agenda to a new point - a proposal for a vote of no confidence by Minister of Labour and Employment Dragan Milovanovic. For 65, against 110, the abstentions were not voted on by 55, a total of 230 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Rajko Baralic suggested that the agenda be extended to a new point -- a bill amending the law on the seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 24 January 2002. Does MP Rajko Baralic want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19330	Mrs. Micic, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected journalists, respected students of the Faculty of Law, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the 14th and 24th January respectively, I submitted a bill amending the Law on Seats and Areas of Courts and Public Prosecutors. The essence of this proposal is that a trade court based in Cačak, Gornji Milanovac, Luciani and Ivanjica is formed for the Moraviga district of Cačak, Gornji Milanovac, Lucani and Ivanjica. Cačak was formerly the only seat of the Chamber of Commerce in Serbia, so outside the court whose seat was in the King's seat. The Chamber of Commerce from Cačka, associations such as the business associations "Gradac 97".", it's a club of big and small businessmen, and "Town 2000.", they also support this proposal. This proposal, just a few days after I made it public in front of reporters, was submitted by the Executive Board of the So Cačak on January 25th, 28th, as an initiative for the adoption of the law on amendments and additions to the Law on Seats and Areas of Courts and Public Prosecutors, signed by the chairman of the Executive Board, SO Cačak, Mr Milan Kandic, a member of the Democratic Party. In this initiative, there is the same text as in the draft amendments to the law that I have submitted. A month later, on February 26th, two MPs from Cacca, who are in the DOS coalition, submitted in the same text a proposal to amend the law. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Cachak is the seat of over 4,000 business entities and has already been wronged by the fact that the Chamber of Commerce has no headquarters in Chačka. I remind you that Kruševac was given the Chamber of Commerce when we adopted the Chamber Act, and the Office for Small and Medium Enterprises is located in the Kingdom, completely and beyond economic and any other logic. Please support the proposal that Cačak be the seat of the trade court for these four municipalities, especially because Ivanica is located in Moravička County, not in Zlatiborski, as it said when Mr Djindjic visited the Zlatibor County. I would also add that if, for political reasons, so if you are disgusted on the proposal of the Socialist Party of Serbia MPs, today this initiative does not get your support, and gets the proposal submitted by the MPs from DOS, so from New Democracy and New Serbia, the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group will vote for such an amendment and the addition of the law because it is in our interest that Cacak become the seat of the trade court, and not that someone gets a political profit based on this. What I'm trying to say is that everyone else is a stunt for this initiative and I recognize them as plagiarists here, but that's their problem, not ours. Please support this proposal and put it on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19331	The People's MP Cedomir Jovanovic has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19332	Mrs. Micic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is no need to race with the proposals. This initiative is reasonable because it stemmed from the specific needs of citizens and four municipalities and we will support it, regardless of the formal proposal. It is true that there is a parallel initiative of the representatives of the DOS parliamentary group from the municipalities that you mentioned, but I think that it does not exclude each other and that it would be good to support it and thus correct the mistake that we have made, which was not the result of an evil intention, but, in fact, one failure that deserves such a correction. Cačak is a very important municipality, just like the municipalities that are gravitating towards Cačka and deserves a trade court. I'm glad we're going to be remembered as people who have righted a multi-year injustice.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19333	I thank Mr. Jovanovic. I am putting on the vote by MP Rajko Baralic to extend the session's agenda to a new point - the draft law amending the Law on Seats and Areas of Courts and Public Prosecutors. For 182, against three, abstentioned six, there were no 36 votes, a total of 227 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. National MP Cedomir Jovanovic, based on members 86 and 137. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that a joint principle search be carried out on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Insurance Act and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act. Does the MP want a word? No, I don't. ) I am putting to the vote the proposal of MP Cedomir Jovanovic to carry out a joint principled search on the draft law amending and supplementing the Health Insurance Act and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act. For 148, against 30, the abstentions did not vote 50, a total of 228 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. National MP Cedomir Jovanovic, based on members 86 and 137. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that a joint principle search be carried out on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Charter of Fundamental Schools and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on High Schools. Does the MP want a word? No, I don't. ) I am putting to the vote the proposal of MP Cedomir Jovanovic to conduct a joint principled search on the draft law amending and supplementing the Charter of Fundamental Schools and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on High Schools. For 151, against 60, with no abstentions, no vote was taken by 17, a total of 228 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. We move on to proposals to change the order of certain agenda points. Here you are, according to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19334	You've broken members of 199 and 200 again. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, as the Serbian Radical Party MP's group filed a motion last April for a non-confidential vote by Interior Minister Dusan Mihajlovic, and in May of last year for a vote of mistrust by Minister of Education and Sports Gashi Knezevic. We've also recently filed an addition to these demands. It is complemented by both one and the other request multiplied in good time and delivered to the Messengers of the people. The explanations of both requirements are already 400 densely complex pages, and you do not include them in the agenda at all. Then it should be said here that it is impossible to apply for the replacement of Dusan Mihajlovic or Gasa Knezevic, and you are surprised that in today's "National" we read how General Perisic qualified his colleagues from the government -- Djindjic, Covic, Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19335	It's not a business discussion, Mr. Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19336	According to the Rules of Procedure, I dare not repeat what Perisic said about his colleagues. You are surprised then that the most prominent Serbian newspapers bring such texts - power in the hands of the mafia, etc. Why? Because you have already carried out a covert coup by abolishing the Constitutional Court and holding back the opposition in parliament from using its constitutional rights. For nothing, the Constitution guarantees the right for MPs to place with 20 signatures any minister's wallpaper. We take it on a few hundred pages of reasoning and you just shut up like it doesn't exist. Recently, 15 - 20 days ago you multiplied that document and delivered it to all the MPs. Is that true?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19337	National MP Vojislave Seselj, it is true that I have not put these two proposals to be resolved by individual ministers, for the simple reason that it is not in accordance with Article 79. The Rules of Procedure which says, "The draft agenda of the National Assembly can only include the proposals for acts prepared in accordance with the Constitution and this Rules of Procedure." You have a member of the 101st Rules of Procedure who says in the third position, "It is not allowed to use offensive expressions, nor to present facts and assessments relating to the private life of other persons". That's why I'll never put that kind of proposal on the agenda. If you're not satisfied, we can vote. (Vojislav Seselj: There is no need to vote, but according to a new member of the Rules of Procedure. Here you are, a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19338	You have now again demonstrated before the entire National Assembly that you are knowingly violating the Rules of Procedure. If really our proposals for the resolution of Dusan Mihajlovic and Gaša Knezevic do not comply with Article 101, then you were obliged to notify us officially, as you informed us when we first filed a motion to bring down the entire government. Although you were wrong, we have adapted the new request to what you asked. In this case, Dusan Mihajlovic and Gaša Knezevic have multiplied our arguments on several hundred sides, delivered to the MPs, and you have never declared whether in your opinion these documents contain anything that is not in line with the Rules of Procedure and which is why they should possibly subsequently comply with the Rules of Procedure. You've never done that. You are now the first time that you've informed us as proposings that there is anything in these documents that you don't think is fair to business norms. Is it your turn to explain it after my intervention, or did you have to do it in good time? You have violated the Rules of Procedure and on the matter of putting it on the agenda and have now violated the Rules of Procedure with inadequate interpretation of its standards, and you have openly admitted that you do not allow it to be included in the agenda exclusively with your own personal will.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19339	Thank you, Mr. Seselj. There is no obligation in my Rules of Procedure where I should direct you to the fact that this proposal is not in line, but you have a Rules of Procedure and you should stick to it. There is absolutely no provision, and it was my good will to give you legal advice on the government's resolution proposal, purely my goodwill. The other thing is, I wasn't the president of the assembly back then. Otherwise, I would not allow this material to be printed and delivered to the MPs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19340	You've violated Article 134. Rules of Procedure, Section 2, which says, "If the bill... ". It is not possible for you to control whether any other proposal is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure or not, but only the bill. When you once returned to us to amend the government's shift request, you called for this Article 134.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19341	No, it's at 79.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19342	Paragraph 2 states: "If the bill is not prepared in accordance with this Rules of Procedure, the President of the National Assembly will ask the motion to comply with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, which will specify precisely what this non-compliance is." You have never issued any official act with your claim that there is a discrepancy in our initiatives with the Rules of Procedure, nor have you specifically indicated what this non-compliance is about. That's what you had to do. It's not a matter of your goodwill. Secondly, you're cheating on the National Assembly now because you say you weren't president. You were the president of the National Assembly 15 or 20 days ago when the National Assembly multiplied our additional explanations for the shift of Dusan Mihajlovic and Gaše Knezevic. The service couldn't have done it without your permission. The service acted on your orders, you were president, it was delivered to the MPs, all the MPs got it, and now you're pretending like you've never seen it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19343	Mr. Seselj, it's not a violation of Article 134 which strictly says it's a bill that can be sent for reshuffle. You have not submitted any draft law, but it is about the application of Article 79. So, when preparing the agenda, only the proposals for acts prepared in accordance with the Constitution and this Rules of Procedure may be included in the draft agenda of the National Assembly. I hope we all take care of that for the future. Do you want us to vote on this remark? (Vojislav Seselj: No, it is the violation of Rule 79 of the Rules of Procedure.) You've already had and we've made that clear. I can put it to a vote if you're not happy. We've already explained Article 79. We've still got the Rules of Procedure's injuries. National MP Dragan Markovic also advertises the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19344	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am advocating Article 86 which says that three days before the session of the parliamentary group should apply for some part of the agenda. The Serbian Unity Party saw that there was a agenda item -- trust with the Serbian government. But today we have seen what democracy is and this point has been removed. We filed last year a request to examine the work of the Minister for Agriculture and to have this assembly vote for mistrust from the Minister for Agriculture. That's not the point to be on the agenda until today. We also asked for a survey committee on Ali Delimustafic. It is known who Ali Delimustafic is and these days we could hear that our judiciary sentenced him to three months, a war criminal who staged the murder of Serb soldiers in Sarajevo. Let's once have this parliament discuss important matters. When we will discuss what our Serbian government is doing, if this parliament does not have the opportunity. If the government is on a good path and Serbia is on a good path, which you are afraid of and afraid of, gentlemen of the DOS, then there will be no agenda point proposed by one parliamentary group. The Serbian Unity Party has 14 MPs, and at least 20 MPs are required to submit some part of the agenda. I hope we have one of 150 MPs in the next election, so we won't need you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19345	Mr. Markovic, you've actually given yourself an answer to your own question. I wanted to tell you that what you have submitted is not considered a proposal but an initiative, because you do not have enough signatures, and it takes 20 MPs; when you collect it, I will propose for the agenda and then we will vote on it. Are you satisfied with my answer? So, formally, it doesn't meet, it can't, it doesn't meet the conditions of the proposal. You want the National Assembly to vote? You don't have 20 signatures, it's just an initiative, it's not a proposal, and the initiative can't go to the agenda, it can only be a proposal. Are you satisfied with the answer? Yes, it is. ) We move on to proposals for changing the order of certain points of the agenda. (Vojislav Seselj, from Place: By Business, Article 79.) We've already decided by article 79, yes, we've spoken and we've explained. The government of the Republic of Serbia and MP Cedomir Jovanovic have proposed that the draft law on financial support for families with children be considered as the 2nd item of the agenda. Does the promoter want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: According to the Rules of Procedure. I put it to a vote, please. I ask the Members of Parliament to plead with the vote. For 145, against 40, a abstentioned one, was not voted 38, out of a total of 224 MPs. I find that most of the votes the National Assembly has adopted this proposal. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vojislav Seselj. And you, on what grounds?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19346	My objection is based on Article 79. The Rules of Procedure are purely formal, and I don't mind that you accepted this, but the wording needs to be changed a little bit in order to comply with the Constitution. It cannot be said -- government and Cedomir Jovanovic's proposal. According to the constitution, it must be said -- Cedomir Jovanovic and the government's proposal, because, under the constitution, Ceda is above the government, he is above parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19347	On what grounds do you? On what basis are you answering? (He speaks to MP Zoran Cirkovic approaching the speaker. I need to know if I can give you my word or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19348	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I very patiently listened to Madam President of the National Assembly on proposals for supplementing the agenda and the moment she exhausted the list of these requests with regret I noticed that the initiative of a group of 36 MPs on the suspension of the remaining communist symbols, submitted neatly to this assembly on February 12th, so it was still in the course of the 2001 constitution, not included. I wrote a kind letter to the president of the National Assembly on 5 February this year. The president of the National Assembly refused to multiply that letter, but she allowed me to read it here, so you are familiar with the contents of that letter. This letter is in fact a request to be placed on the agenda of a group of 36 MPs following the completion of an extraordinary session at the first regular session. I remind you that it says there - that's why I suggest that by February 12, 2002, etc. the signator of this letter gives a firm guarantee that the initiative submitted will come to the agenda immediately after the sitting is completed which is under way. So this extraordinary session lasted until March 1st. The truth is, I expected a regular session to be scheduled in the first half of March. We then predicted certain radical measures if this point is not put on the agenda. Unfortunately, the lady waited with this session a time of great fasting; since we humans are Christians and we must refrain from bad deeds, we delay these radical measures. I remind you, ma'am, that in your oral conversation, you gave me guarantees that you would put this item on the agenda. You just broke those guarantees. As you are the daughter-in-law of the famous home of Micic, I assume Serdar Micic is turning into a grave. So I suggest you put that point on the agenda, and then let the Assembly declare it. Finally, it is an opportunity to see if the government will also vote against the suspension of the remaining communist symbols. By the way, I remind you that the current prime minister of the government at the time of Belgrade's mayor has removed the communist stamp from Belgrade. Now, as Prime Minister, I ask him to remove the same communist mark and save him from collective disgrace. By the way, I also remind you that in the latest statements, Mr Djindjic said that communism fell in Serbia. Judging by the sign standing above your head, I don't think it's yet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19349	Mr. Cirkovic, I thank you. Your proposal is not included in the agenda for the simple reason that we have over 70 acts, and you have had the opportunity to seek an extension of the agenda, as other parliamentary groups have done, within three days before the beginning of the session. You didn't use your right. If you'd done that, I'd have put it as a proposal to expand the agenda. Are you satisfied with my answer? Yes, it is. ) National MP Cedomir Jovanovic has suggested that the starting grounds for re-editing Serbia-Montenegro's relations, which were put on the agenda of this session, be considered as the 3rd item of the agenda. Does the promoter want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. For 143 against 56, the abstentions were not voted 23, out of 222 international MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this proposal by majority vote. National MP Cedomir Jovanovic suggested that the draft law amending and supplementing the health insurance law be considered a 4th item of the agenda. I'm putting this motion to a vote. For 143 against 32, the abstentions were not voted 48, out of a total of 223 MPs. I also find that this proposal was adopted by the National Assembly. National MP Cedomir Jovanovic suggested that the draft law amending and supplementing the Health Protection Act be considered a 5th item of the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 139, against 27, the abstentions were not voted 57, out of a total of 223 MPs. I also find that this proposal was adopted by the National Assembly. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, all points adopted by an emergency procedure, as well as on the basis of a proposal for amendments and amendments to the agenda, shall be included in the agenda of the sittings in accordance with the order of their proposal, i.e. acceptance. The proposals for acts adopted as new items of the agenda, the committees responsible, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, if they have not already done so, will submit their reports, or opinions during the course of the session. Since we have come to the conclusion of all the proposals for an emergency procedure and proposals for amendments and additions to the proposed agenda, I would like to ask the Members of Parliament to make a statement on the agenda of the session in general. I'm putting on a vote on a draft agenda in general. For 148, against 52, the abstentions were not voted 23, of the 223 MPs. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002 as a whole. I ask the National Assembly's service to prepare a consolidated text of the session's agenda and to hand it over to the MPs. We are going to work on the established agenda of the session. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: - Proposal for a law on the scope of funds and the participation of municipalities and cities in the income tax and turnover tax in 2002. YOU have received the bill of law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Milan Milosavljevic; Borislav Novaković and Branislav Pomorički; Istvan Išpanovic; Milorad Stanulov; Milutin Svetović, Slavoljub Matić and Dusan Golubović; Aleksandar Vatović; Zoran Nikolic, Dusan Cvetković and Ljubomir Mucic; Bora Stanimirović and Ljubomir Mucic; Nebojsa Jović; Dragan Marković, Milos Lukić, Petar Petrovic and Adam Urosevic; Petar Cvetkovic, Jakov Stamenković and Miodrag Stamenković. You have received the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on amendments submitted to the draft law. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to a relatively large number of MPs in the parliamentary group. I would like the MPs to submit a list of these agenda points. I'm opening a principled search. Does the proposing representative, Mr Bozidar Djelic, the finance and economy minister, want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19350	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today you have before you the proposal for a law on the volume of funds and the participation of municipalities and cities in the income tax and sales tax in 2002. The law, by logic, should be passed at the same time as the budget, but, as you remember last year, the bill was withdrawn because adoption was expected, as happened, of the Law on Local Self-Government, which changed some of the criteria and some of the things that had an impact on this law. This is the second time I have the honor of proposing to the Assembly. This law is interesting because it speaks of money and divides money between local self-government, cities and the Republic. Many of you are representatives of local self-government. Of course, at this point there is always a question of balance between what is necessary in order to carry out all these functions locally, but also to provide enough funds for all those functions foreseen by the Serbian budget, which you voted at the end of last year. The financing of local self-government units in our country is now governed by three system laws: the Law on Public Revenue and Public Expenses, the Law on the Budgetary System and the Law on Local Self-Government. On the basis of the Law on Local Self-Government every year, a law is proposed on the scale of the funds that are in front of you today. The object and purpose of this law is not to provide a new mechanism for raising money for local self-government. I think for years, the original objective of this law and this involvement of local self-government in profit tax and sales tax is a little lost. I would just like to remind the MPs of why there is such a law. It comes from local self-government and now new powers established by the Law on Local Self-Government. The measures are the budgets that are necessary. At the same time, you have one estimate of the original income and those incomes that are off limits. This part that comes today is just a part that needs to provide enough resources in all municipalities. So this part of the funds you're going to vote for today, tomorrow and in the days to come is what needs to balance the situation in our territory. If you want, it is a law that allows the solidarity that is necessary between local self-government; how can it not happen because the fiscal capacity of a given work or local self-government is insufficient, so that they are unable to carry out what is necessary by law and which enables normal and uninterrupted functioning of a city or local self-government. It's important to remember that the money we're talking about here is about 8.6 billion dinars of local self-government funds for 2002 -- this should be compared to the total funds provided for this year for cities and local self-government, of 45.3 billion dinars. So here we're talking about some 19% of local self-government income. What does that mean? This means that we have already largely implemented what is truly decentralisation in fiscal terms, because 80% of all local self-government revenues, i.e. cities come from the original incomes, and they represent 20.5 billion dinars this year or from the reduced revenues of republican taxes beyond the limit, which represent 16.2 billion dinars. The goal of this money is not to add money to new authorities, but only 19% on average of the funds that need to balance the situation everywhere in the territory of the Republic, especially for those local self-governments that are in a difficult situation and with less fiscal capacity. This expresses solidarity in the territory of the entire Republic. As a result, you have a higher participation in some local self-government in the participation of this third part of your income. Sources for these first two parts of the funds, i.e. The local, real, original fiscal capacity in certain municipalities is slightly higher. I wanted to point that out because for years now, as the Committee debate this year has shown this original intensity and the goal is a little lost in the sight of all of us. That's why we did that technical job that was necessary to bring this law into line with the new Law on Local Self-Government, and just to point out that he introduced three new criteria that have been reflected here: the first criterion is the number of objects in primary and secondary schools, which is the new criterion for redistributing funds; the second is social care facilities for children; the third is environmental status. The first two criteria are fully respected. As for the third, we've done an assessment and there's still not enough good data for environmental status in all environments. Next year, hopefully, with additional work, it will all be provided and fully. I'd like to move on to what might be the one thing you always talk about when I have contacts with local self-government, which is that this wall called the traffic tax limit needs to be breached. That's because you forget why that money comes. The money we're talking about here is what's specified. The rate was made by size, according to the potential expected in sales tax and tax on a fund of earnings in a given city and local self-government. However, because we've all collectively lost sight of what this is all about, big battles are being fought over that percentage that is nothing more than the amount of extra money made, the necessary solidarity for a given local self-government or city and the potential of sales tax. This percentage is only there for one very one-sided reason, which is that money transfers don't happen every 15 or a month, but since sales tax is collected every day, that money can be moved to the accounts of local self-government or city. Only because of that, what was only a technique to implement this became a matter of debate with us for a long time. Believe me, there was nothing better this year, and I can see by some of the amendments here that suggest that they be lost in sight of what is the original intensity and purpose of this law and this money. I ask you to go back to what is original, because it is simply possible, as far as this money is concerned, that it is determined as a subsidy of the Republic's budget to local self-government, and that may be the simplest thing. That way, I don't think there would be any more debate over those rates, about allegedly some poor budget intensity or central government that won't give money belonging to local self-government. I note again, this is not an intrinsic -- if local self-government needs to have some extra money, that also requires changes in the Law on Local Self-Government, which would increase the powers that then require additional money. By the way, the Law on Local Self-Government provided for the possibility that some laws would increase the authority of local self-government and cities. In case you vote such laws, the budget will indeed propose changes and divisions in some taxes, so that additional money is provided for new agents. That makes perfect sense. It doesn't make sense what happens with us all the time, which is that there's always talk about that percentage, that it's just asking for that limit to be lifted, because it's simply not the goal, it's not in accordance with any system of public finance arrangements, because when you ask for more money, you have to explain what the new information is about. I have to be honest, I was personally disappointed with the discussions we heard on the boards. In particular, if you look at Article 4 of this Act: after that discussion this year, he tried to introduce an experiment, to see how we can, possibly, take this mechanism that is not ideal, which I was just talking about, to interest local self-government and cities in further suppressing the gray economy and smuggling. One idea that emerged after the discussion was related to that part of the sales tax that is collected in the territory of the city and local self-government above the planned not only funds but inflation, because inflation is both in monetary and fiscal policy-making "privileged" if you will, and under the great signs of the state. That's what was done everywhere. It is the same as if local self-government were required to participate, for example, in what is the profit of the National Bank of Yugoslavia, and tomorrow, the national banks of Serbia, perhaps, in what is called an inflationary profit. This is not possible in monetary or fiscal terms. There was this good will, in Article 4, it is shown, for that part of the funds, which is measured quarterlyly, in those local self-governments where sales taxes exceed not only what is planned, but what is possibly planned inflation. If inflation is bigger than planned, then it is an inflationary profit belonging to the Republic. For that part of the assets that are above that, it is intended to return to the municipality, because there is already some indication that the local self-government is working actively to strengthen its fiscal potential, trying to establish order and attract businesses, that there are more registered sales taxes and therefore legitimate traffic on its territory. That's why I suggest you accept Article 4 in the current formulation, because it's one experiment this year. We can't suddenly change everything in this system. I have to say, after a lot of discussions, we want to see how things go on that plan. Is that extra money going to those local self-governments where there's really something going on in curbing the gray economy, and not just because inflation is one or two percent bigger, or just because there's been a change in participation, for example, in the Federation, in the sales tax -- these are the things I think we need to agree on and do this this this year in the way that it's supposed to be done. Next year, we'll see what experience they've had in that domain. I cannot agree at this point that what was a very well-intentioned offer by the government of the Republic of Serbia, to try to find common language and interest in curbing the gray economy, turns into only more money for local self-government and without greater authority. Of course there is not enough money anywhere, but what is important is that we can provide enough money at all levels, including the budget of the Republic of Serbia. I would like to invite you to vote in favour of this law, including the proposed formulation of Article 4 of this Law, to take a closer look at the next three quarters of how they are implemented. There's gonna be time to sort things out and change them in a further discussion. Thank you very much for your attention, and after voting on this bill, local self-government will be able to vote on those budgets that have been waiting for weeks. We simply ask that when you vote for this law, we do not lose sight of what this money is for and what is not its goal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19351	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Do the officials of the committees want a word? Yeah. ) Here you are, Mr Nenad Bogdanović, chairman of the Finance Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19352	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the President-in-Office, I have the need to give a few explanations, a few personal opinions, and in some ways try to illustrate why the report that the Assembly received from the Finance Committee is as it is. In what Mr. Minister said, I would agree almost 99.9 percent of the things because I also represented this position on the Finance Committee, even though that attitude from some others who, in my opinion, were rather unprincipled in the discussions they were having, I received fierce criticism. I believe that local self-government, and given the extent of jurisdiction they have, with this proposed law went well. So I don't have any dilemma. Why did it go well? To be fair, local self-government has not practically received any new jurisdiction so far. It is that the Law on Local Self-Government opened up the possibility of getting new powers, but in order for local self-government to have them, we need to change a few important laws in this House, especially in the field of health and education. Only after that can dislocations or redistributions be made. It's a fact and there's nothing controversial about it. The other thing that is extremely important is that if you compare planned inflation, transferred inflation, revenues derived from various sources, there is no municipality -- and I can freely argue that, given that Belgrade is one of the worst environments in this redistribution -- which has not received more money than in the previous period. Of course, I'm talking about the total budget revenue. I don't share the budget as some try, and from that, by making a name, on the budget that's being created in the bar, on the budget that's coming from here, on the part of the budget that's coming from there. It doesn't matter at all. You have the total budget planned for the activities you've been defined. How you're going to pick them up or on what basis you're going to get them, it doesn't matter at all. That's the first point that matters. The second point, which is extremely important, is those who achieve through some parts of their budget revenue more, and these are specially developed environments. It's that story that revolves around our whole maybe misunderstanding: that's what's called sales tax and profit tax. The limit consists of both elements. So both elements affect that. Here we have some environments that say -- we have this fantastic income and we want to have a fantastic result in our local budget, absolutely not responding to what their obligations are and what they need, for the money they need to get, to execute. Of course, local self-government has other cuts. Local self-governments and people who do business there say -- you know, we thank you for fulfilling what you promised us, giving us more money than before, but we think that we can do something more for our local environments from the budgets that we make in our territory, we think that we need to respect it. In addition to this social component or this social approach, which creates conditions to give the richer ones, it should be possible for the richer, especially at the level of local self-government, to do more. I think you should respect that, too. Nothing is disputed. Now, in order to measure all of that, it's done through appropriate criteria. And I absolutely think that's very close to some kind of justice. Of course, each of us can draw arguments - whether this or that city is damaged or not, but let's say it's very close. If there are mistakes, that's what we said, we're going to fix, if something's wrong, it's going to straighten out, if something's wrong, it can also be corrected from some parts, how the money gets into the budget. Now, let's go back to the story that remained controversial -- I think the Finance Committee is very smart about what he did. The Finance Committee said, and you can see that in the report that you received, because certain environments appeared with specific figures, and they said: we need another 200 million, we need another 100 million, we need another 50 million -- we agreed together, it was without a problem, and so we voted, most of course, that can't be a principle. So each of us can go out and say, we need so much and so much millions, but that's not a principle, that's a wish, and we're not adopting wishes now, we're adopting principles now. The other thing we agreed on is the principle. The principle - what to do with the money, which is in that so-called. By doing that, and by doing a limited part, do you get through it? So we have a projection of how much it's going to be, but what if it happens over there? Now there's a fundamental problem. The question is, how can it be more? It's not just inflation. It is true that this can be due to better work of local self-government, to place more goods into legal traffic and to be a bigger sales tax. But it's not just that, there's more people to hire. So local self-government can create more employees, more quality salaries, which will also directly affect the growth of that. And, in the end, it can be the result of a completely normal situation, which is that in the country life will be getting better, that there will be greater traffic and that as a result of greater traffic, that income will increase. I had to elaborate this, because I think both the Minister and the Ministry must agree that there are several reasons that can directly affect that. And now, there is a different approach of the Ministry and the majority of the Committee on Finance, that's a fact -- the Ministry thinks that the above-planned income should be shared in the way it was proposed by law. Most have decided and suggested that this should be divided by a much stricter principle, by automation and that more money belongs to local self-government. What's the real deal - until there's a vote on this amendment that we adopted yesterday, I suggest that the Ministry try a little bit and still consult with those who are most interested, and above all with some members of the Finance Committee, and that we try to agree, if we can. Of course, if we do not agree, then the congregation will decide how much it is. I would like to conclude the following -- I believe that the Ministry of Finance and the Government have also expanded here in financial terms the amount of money by local self-government compared to the previous year. Of course, for all of us who work in local self-government, we know that from Belgrade, there would always be more money, but we should also think, what are the obligations of the republican budget and see where is the harmony and where is the discrepancies. I'm thanking you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19353	Do MPs want a word? The People's MP Branislav Pomoriski, the Social Democratic League of the League of the Duchy of Vojvodina and the League for the Shumadi, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19354	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament - will you issue an opinion or can I begin? (Separated opinions)
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19355	You can go to the minister. I apologize to Parliamentarian Branislav Pomorish. The scenario for the chairman has no record that any of the members of the Committee have issued an opinion. Is it there or isn't it? I would have read, of course, if someone had given an opinion at the Committee session. There's no information about it here in the Assembly scenario, and that's why I'm not calling you, nothing else. In the report of the Finance Committee, there is no information that any of the members of the Finance Committee have issued an opinion. This is unusual, but given that the Secretary of Parliament is not timely and in accordance with his obligations has informed the President, i.e. the Chairman, I would ask MP Dragan Tomic, that according to the Rules of Procedure, what he has the right to, as a national MP who has issued an opinion, to come out as a pay phone. And take the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19356	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the first session of the Finance Committee, I have issued an opinion on this bill, with two other MPs from other parliamentary groups. I'm sorry that this report wasn't delivered, but I have the right to say what I think of this proposal. It is true that in front of us, although with great delay, the proposal for a law on the volume of funds and the participation of municipalities and cities in the income tax and sales tax. I think we're significantly behind on this proposal, for a number of reasons, and it can't be justified by the adoption of a new Law on Local Self-Government and the Budgetary System Act. The facts are this -- there's no solidarity criteria here at all to which someone is calling. There is an absolutely different criterion, and I think the basic criterion used in drawing up this law was the criteria for centralisation of income in the Republic of Serbia's budget. I think that municipalities and cities have lost a few basic things, and that is primarily the development concept of every municipality in the area of infrastructure, solid housing. It happened last year, and I don't know how the municipalities, which are now to bring their budgets, are going to arrange that area, because the principle of this government is that municipalities don't bring developmental, or investment budgets. I think it's a serious problem and it's not supposed to be a political issue, it's a development issue for Serbia. Therefore, if there are no such budgets, then there are no reforms, there is no development of Serbia either. Therefore, it is a free story of the good path of Serbia. Government support for municipalities has lagged, when we talk about participation in sales tax and gross earnings tax, in the betrayal of these revenues, and they are the most important and fundamental revenues of each municipality in Serbia. They are below absolute limits as income. The story is that in some ways income can be obtained, in the second part, by helping local self-government units fight the gray economy, it looks like a replacement of thesis. You know who's supposed to do it and who's supposed to do it. Local self-government units do not have such an opportunity in their functions, except to be some kind of listening device that will give information to the competent state authorities, for example when it comes to economic crime; or that the financial police, possibly, are doing something in the area. Secondly, a significant loss in certain environments is possible because there are facts that say gross earnings are falling. A large number of people are on lists, i.e. they will lose their jobs, which means they will lose their jobs, or the revenue side will be lost. Let's say, in some environments, as we have in the district closed the Viskoza, which stands, so there are no income types either, there is no gross earnings and there is no tax from that profit as the original income of the municipality's budget. When it comes to the criteria used for the distribution of funds, which is to remind the number of primary and secondary schools, the social care of children and the status of the environment, when you look at the intended means and percentages of sales taxes, you have an absolute series of illogicalities in front of you. The averages of 40,000 inhabitants, cities with 20,000 inhabitants, perhaps four primary and three or four secondary schools, have no higher education without saying that the number of children in preschools is three times smaller than some larger and more developed environments, received more income from cities such as Shabac, Zrenjanin, Kruševac, Leskovac, etc. So that's one totally irrational approach. Here are the most lost cities - Šabac, Valjevo, Čačak, Zrenjanin, Požarec, meaning some environments that have a developmental pace, in which the economy (President - five minutes and 30 seconds MP). ....................................................................................................... It's working. I think we have a law in front of us that didn't take advantage of the criteria. In the end, this year was taxed on agriculture as one serious and generous income. It is funny to talk about it as a generous income when the cadastrian income is from the 1996 period, when the cadastrian income for the best and best quality country is 300 or four hundred dinars per hectare. That's what a 20% rate is applied to... (The Chairman - six minutes. ....................................................................................................... So we don't have that kind of income. And, in the end, I have to say that the peasants of Sword, Pocerina and Posavina don't strike for nothing. This year, he will receive pension and disability insurance obligations of 11,000, and in my municipality alone, he will carry out a new four million marks. They have the right to object, and they're right to ask the government to sit down once and definitely solve this issue in a good way. What you're proposing today to make as a decision is scandalous when it comes to the interests of these producers and the people involved in agricultural production. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19357	Does MP Ljubomir Mucic want a word, since you have expressed your opinion. The word has a folk MP Branislav Pomoriski, representative of the parliamentary group, followed by Vojislav Seselj and Ljubomir Mucic as a representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19358	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I listened carefully to Mr. Minister, I read the bill carefully, I participated in the work of the Finance and Budget Committee, and I understand that it is difficult to make reforms in Serbia. Especially - to make reforms in the financial and fiscal system, because nobody has enough at the moment. But to be on the path of reform, I am deeply convinced and convinced, we cannot go by stopping the best and helping the worst. In particular, I mean that on the basis of the Committee president's finding that the discussion on the Committee was inconclusive, I would like to point out that it was just principled and I would like to talk about these principles. So it's about principles, not informal demands or bids, as it's called. Before I go to the specific principles that characterise this bill, I would briefly refer to the whole of the law that should lead to decentralisation in our country. It, I remind you, before October 5th was one of the main DOS promises, which entered as one of the basic postulates and elements in the Republic Government programme. So decentralisation as a principle of problem solving, that the problem is solved where it came from and that, possibly, it is solved by those concerned. It's more or less so in the developed world and we've never had a more serious debate about it before. Now, that's what we need to do, and in order to do that, we need to adopt a certain legislation that will allow such an approach to the problem. We've passed a new Law on local self-law, and I'm going to briefly look back at that set of laws that treat that area. We also saw through discussions that the topic mainly revolved over whether or not the new mayor would be, but the essence of the story did not cover the law, which is the economic and financial basis of local self-government. So he remained in force of the 1995 Law on assets owned by the Republic of Serbia and under the new law, which will take effect when it enters into force, local self-government will have neither economic nor financial basis to function. This order of steps took this new law, and if you read it carefully, you saw that there was absolutely no significant change in it compared to what we had so far. I fully understand the need to be solidarity in principle with the relatively coherent development of the whole country, but no reform can be done by dividing it into equal parts, no matter how much resources it collects, no matter how much material goods it produces. Because in a situation like this, we should all probably go to that system that we used to call communism, which was never communism, but was utopian, that everyone could have the same thing, and that everyone would do the same thing to contribute to the common cause. We've seen that he can't live. It's beautifully imagined, it's beautiful in stories, but it's not real in reality, in life. Therefore, the reform must go towards solidarity with all, but that one who works better and works more must have a more adequate share of the results of his work. What are the principles in this bill of law that do not go towards such types of reform? I'll start with the clearest and most understandable ones. Before I explain it, I have to say that I am saying this on behalf of all the municipalities and cities in our country. I don't speak on behalf of the New Sad, or in the name of the Duke, because I think that this law applies equally to all of us, equally distimulates us to turn the gray economy into a legal and many other things that as local self-government on the ground we can do. First of all, this law, I'd say, has one residual item called - complementary criteria. The funds are, as they are, divided by single criteria of 60%. According to the additional criteria, two billion and 345 million dinars are divided without knowing by what criteria. The fact that the President of the Committee defends the Government, I do not attack the Government and I think that the Government has a difficult job to do financial reform of this system, but I expect that through the amendments, we will come to an improvement in this law as far as possible. These two billion and 345 million dinars. The distribution by additional criteria represents 40% of the total funds. What are these criteria? It's like asking people who run financials where budget funds are deposited, where fiscal and fund funds are deposited, and no one has an answer. So, what are the criteria based on which this distribution was made? When you see why Mr. Bogdanovic defends this law so explicitly, which I don't attack because right now we don't have a better choice and I want to fix it with amendments, I would probably defend it. Belgrade has a coefficient of over 7. Never before did the relationship between Novi Sad and Belgrade cross one to five, and the framework set between the two cities this year is far above the range of one to six. So what are the additional criteria that have defined nearly two billion and 350 million dinars? Secondly, we say that Article 4 provides an opportunity to correct injustice, that one who achieves the results of turning gray into a legal economy, who gives the results in a better tax charge, will be stimulated and then said this way - the results of tax collection will be the criterion by which municipalities and cities will be able to additionally make funds outside these laws prescribed. I'm asking you -- what happens in cities like Novi Sad, which are approaching 100% already now, if we add what our citizens have voluntarily given, an additional tax, to equip our Ministry of the Interior, because we haven't been satisfied with the security of our city. Citizens sought better security and gave money for it, and this is the responsibility of the interior ministry, which is participating in all taxes at the republican level. When we add that as a real tax collected over the course of this year, then we come up with a 100% bill. How will we be stimulated, and what tax can we charge above 100%? So the one that raises the tax from 10 to 15% will be stimulated, and we can't do that from 100 to 105. So that criterion is not good. I'm talking about the principle, and I'm going to give a couple of examples that are unsustainable. It is balanced for Novi Sad, for example, 41 elementary schools, and teaching is carried out in 48. It's balanced 12,844 children covered by childcare, and we have 17.930. In high schools, there's an even more drastic example, 14 balanced, and 28 are. So, in addition to the additional criteria, we have these unique criteria that are not well-balanced. At this point, unfortunately, we have a choice between what's going on and what's worse. We want to support this law in principle, counting on the amendments that we have made, and since I'm discussing the law in principle I wouldn't be talking about amendments right now, I think we need to get along with these amendments to correct this law as much as possible. First of all, I think it is an important principle that what is achieved with a prescribed rate above the prescribed framework is divided into a certain percentage between the Republic and the municipality, or city. The other amendments given by Novi Sad are absolutely based on what I've been talking about, and that's inadequate to balance our real needs with the funds that belong to us under the law, and that's why as MPs, I ask you to vote for those amendments, because we didn't ask for 10 to get one. We're on the basis of clear and clear arguments, backed by numbers and backed by law, the way it is, we're looking for as much as we really want right now. Just one more thing that is very important, these amendments were supported by all MPs from Novi Sad, both by the positions and by the opposition.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19359	The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19360	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, our experience so far teaches us, whenever Minister Bozidar Djelic does some experiments, it can be reasonably expected that the subject of the experiment will succumb. Many have succumbed so far, especially to the private sector, but also to state and social enterprises, and nothing good is written by local self-governments since the experiments of its tax policy. We have an exacerbated version of the earlier variant of funding local self-government from sales tax. It hasn't been a good situation before. We used to have bids, even much harder bids than today. Many who came from various municipalities as MPs to this National Assembly fought here for their localist interests, because that is how the legal concept was set up. Now it's quieted down because people hesitate to participate in such a debate. Not because they don't want such a debate, but because they're in advance demoralized that they can achieve something, because the government here has made some solid coordinates between which some new idea, some new proposal, can hardly be incorporated. However, the methodology is not good. In general, the concept of tax policy is not good because it has not distributed strictly the tax revenues of the Republic from the tax revenues of local self-government. If the Republic had determined its tax revenues, for example 17% of the sales tax, then it should have been the Republic's income, to reduce the rate and not to be 17% but 10%, and to allow local self-governments to determine their own sales tax, so some one percent, some two percent, three percent, and that should be left to local self-government. You've been campaigning for a much greater independence of local self-government units, and now you've put them under much more control than they were before. With this unique vault at the level of the Republic of Serbia, you've actually taken all the money from local self-government. It was right to determine where a local self-government unit could hold its own money so that there would be no corruption on that basis, as before. You have now completely taken over from them and is now less self-registration units of local self-government in terms of having their own money than it was before. There is no genuine autonomy of local self-government without its right to determine its own incomes and to make those revenues available. However you create this methodology, it will not objectively meet the needs of society, the needs of local self-government units, the territorial and populist configuration of Serbia, what Serbia's population actually has as its original need. Here you have listed several of these elements on which the methodology is based, so you have placed the number of inhabitants, the size of the territory of certain local self-government, the number of primary schools, departments, number of students, secondary schools, cultural needs, trusted jobs, etc. You immediately come up with a basic problem, what about a municipality where there's no kindergarten, no kindergarten, what about a community where there's no high school. Does that mean there must never be a high school there? Does that mean there can never be a kindergarten? That methodology is not good. Much better would be a methodology - all municipalities the same percentage, and the rest of the money would be directed directly for concrete needs. But it's a big job for the ministry, you have to get into that job if you want to do it seriously, so the government is going to say, here, that a kindergarten is going to be built, here is going to be a high school, here's a primary school, here this cultural institution, here she is. That makes sense, and by this methodology you don't finance the needs of local self-government but you finance local bureaucracy. You're giving her one amount of money based on these indicators, and then you're letting her have that money and, of course, she can dispose of it in different ways. It does not have to have a purpose, nor did you in the Law on Local Self-Government foresee mechanisms where money would be controlled. There is no such thing as a serious mechanism. He used to be something more serious because they were special accounts. It was a municipal-resident account, which was strictly dedicated and for the purposeless availability of money were also provided for criminal sanctions. There's no such thing now. Now it's a single account. Now all that you've singled out, given certain purposes, can be spent on employees' salaries in municipalities, in principle. The municipality is completely independent to determine the number of employees and does not say anywhere that the municipality must adapt the number of employees in the municipal administration to the number of inhabitants or territorial size and so on. That's not meant to happen anywhere. A municipality that has so far had 30 employees can now decide to have 300 employees. Does this represent the development of local self-government units? No, the awakening of the municipal apparatus never represents development. It's a developmental brake. You have not installed this mechanism anywhere, which would ensure that money goes to fund education, to finance cultural needs, to finance various other communal needs. It's all left to the local self-government unit, to her will, to her good or bad will. In this case, two principles, the principle of principle and the principle of justice, were to be brought into line. Of course, not much has been done for small-income municipalities, in which there are few people who are economically underdeveloped, such as the Black Treva municipality, for example. You set her 92% stake in the tax on sales. You could have given her 192% and 2092% so you wouldn't have changed her status significantly. You set the Belgrade 7.5%, and in Belgrade, this sum is huge, 7.5% for Belgrade, which is already the amount in billions. So that doesn't say anything. The one who determined these percentages had to be largely arbitrary because there are no tangible indicators that would result in a specific number. It's always a felerical figure compared to the real state of society, it's always, right; it's always a high percentage of arbitraryity in that, and you've always handled what's found. You've been found from last year, last year, and so on. The governments have faced this problem before, and it has always been an additional set of interpretations, numerals, some corrections, but according to how powerful someone was from a certain municipality in the Serbian government. And earlier years before the adoption of such a projection, such a law, they came to the columns of lobbyists from certain municipalities to urinate for their community, to make this figure slightly larger, if not for the whole index point, then for one decimal or a hundredth part and so on, but that's what it went to. You failed to achieve something new compared to the previous, maybe you couldn't, maybe you didn't know. The long wait for this legislative project is not justified by the very content of the project. Change is not qualitative in nature compared to the situation found. There's got to be something urgent to change. What's the problem? The problem is, you still don't have a clear concept of local self-government. That's why you took part and passed the Law on Local Self-Government, it was important for you to choose directly in the direct elections the president of the municipality, as if it were important and as if it contributed to the development of democracy. The real autonomy of local self-government is in the field of income. Local self-government must be encouraged in a certain way to achieve greater revenues. It must have its own autonomous incomes and incomes in tax items, not that local self-governments are now competing that will impose a higher tax, so the municipality of Kula prescribed for each political party to highlight the firm 100,000 dinars annually. (President: 10 minutes and 30 seconds. I'm going on for the next ten minutes, I'm right, right? (President: Yes, go ahead. ) I am convinced, even among DOS parties, not everyone can afford to pay only in the municipality of Kula for the emphasis of the party company 100,000 dinars. No one intervened to stop it. You've brought municipalities into such a situation that someone doesn't even think there and tax the political party like it's a company. The political party is a nonprofit organization. She doesn't even pay taxes to the state on her incomes. That's what you should have explained to them, and it wouldn't have happened if you hadn't forced units of local self-government to commit themselves only to inventing taxis or undermining an already existing system of taxis of many entities that wouldn't have to do so in the nature of things, nor should they be subjected to it. The unit of local self-government in the civilized world has its original incomes. These original revenues in many elements resemble state-owned incomes. It would, of course, be a very brave step, require a lot of effort, a lot of effort, a lot of work, but it has to be done once. In order for this job to be done, a clear concept of local self-government must be built first. What do we want with local self-government? Not to be a thing, to be a feed of a man, to whom he will supplicately hold his mandate, but to whom the interests of citizens will satisfy the units of local self-government and thus justify his existence. We had in that previous communist system some things even better solved. I remember in the 1980s, many of the owners of private companies in Belgrade transferred their headquarters to Kosovo and Metohija because they preferred the tax policy of local self-government units, some kind of tax, I'm not sure I'll remember what these were all tax items, but they were left to local self-government and local self-governments competed with each other that would have a lower tax rate to attract as many companies as possible to have headquarters in its territory. It is a developmental chance for undeveloped municipalities to attract as many companies as possible, to have their headquarters on their territory, and then there would be companies from Belgrade. Here you will sharpen the tax items for companies because Belgrade is still a metropolis and has a business registered in Belgrade is a privilege, I say so, although I know it is not very popular, but once it needs to make serious cuts in that area, so many of Belgrade's companies and their headquarters will dislocate. Let the Black Grass have the lowest tax rate, so you'll see how many companies are going to be based in Black Grass, a huge number of companies. What's the developmental chance of black grass? Their headquarters can be purely formal in Black grass, but that means that at least once a month the owner has to travel to Black grass, so he's gonna sleep in Black grass, so he's gonna have lunch in Black grass, so he's gonna take a walk on Black grass, and he's gonna buy a newspaper in a black grass kiosk. I guess it's a developmental opportunity, not that you're going to be measuring local bureaucrats -- we're going to give this much, we're going to give that much, there's nothing. That is why the concept of tax policy must change entirely. Tax policy must be encouraging to economic operators, not restrictive. But Djelic's tax policy cuts his head off to the private sector. She destroys, she goes like a bulldozer and knocks it all down in front of her. It's easy to destroy, it's easy to end a taxpayer. It's hard to create. You have reduced the number of taxpayers, you have not increased, especially when it comes to economic activities. That's the problem, you once managed to charge a large sum of money. You had a solid budget last year. This year you will already be able to charge much less than the same taxpayers, because many companies have closed down, and many have suspended a number of actions, because these activities are no longer profitable. In the area of local self-government, it is particularly important to set these things in one rational way. Of course, this requires the engagement of a large number of experts. There are no solutions here, but it was necessary to study some of the experiences of other countries. Here Minister Djelic earlier, explaining various tax laws, called for the experience of various Western European countries, but in this case he did not consult the experience of any civilized country with developed democracy and with a developed concept of local self-government. Here you should have looked at the French example of how local self-government is financed. You should have consulted a German, Italian example. You could have pulled a whole series of experiences. Not all of these experiences have to be automatically transmitted, but they can be an incentive to have some idea of how to better formulate the issue, how to better solve it, and how to make this local self-government work more effectively and actually be democratic, and only if it's not dependent on the central government. The concept of local self-government dependence on the central government, which earlier, before the occupation of Kosovo and Metohija, had justification for Albania's separatist rebellion, is now without justification. Now there is no longer any danger that some unit of local self-government will abuse its rights and duties to secede, at least not so much. There is a greater danger at the level of central government or at the level of autonomy. At the level of local self-government, such a danger in Serbia is hardly noticeable. There are other mechanisms that can be intervened. It is therefore necessary to strengthen the competences and capabilities of local self-government and to keep them as self-sufficient as possible in relation to the central government in order to demonstrate their ability. You've been racing here who's going to suggest that the municipalities have local police, as if it means something. Who does that mean anything to? That means only the kabadiah who is in office of the president of the municipality -- well, now he's going to have his own cops who are going to force fear and obedience into the citizens. Only that, instead of turning to the economic independence of these local self-governments and having their financial situation based on concrete economic effects. You need to create in economic terms competition among units of local self-government, which will attract businesses more and where business conditions will be better, where these conditions of business will lead to the creation of new jobs, construction of plants, etc. This should have made it more courageous to give greater rights to local self-government units in terms of the availability of state-owned countries, in particular payments for individual housing, for industrial, or economic construction, etc. It was meant to create conditions for one who performs local self - administration with his original ideas, his thinking, his ability, his ingenuity, to achieve better results and thus serve as an example to others. And no, on the one hand, you're creating tenacious officials who are not interested in the economy at all, because in this concept, no one is going to particularly try to achieve some serious result. What's the one in Black Grass trying to do? You say he gets 92%. Of what - one or two shops, of one hotel that exists there? What else is there - there's nothing. This way I can't even achieve it. Is there a kindergarten, a garden in Black grass? Is there a high school? There's only one, Construction. What's that gonna mean, giving them 92% of the sales tax? It won't mean anything. (Glass from the O.R.: Why did you catch the Black Grass? ) Because it is the most underdeveloped municipality in Serbia and has the least population. There are only about 2,000 inhabitants. But we also have a strategic interest in remaining an independent municipality, because it's on huge territory. Why did I especially stick to the Black Grass case? Because that example is ecultaneous. I could find you similar reasons for a whole series of other municipalities in Serbia. The new concept has to be applied, it doesn't rob itself of old schemes, and it introduces new subjective criteria, so it says new authorities -- now we're going to punish them there at the local level where we have the insecure local powers, and where they're close to us, where they're ours, there we're going to increase this percentage a little bit, and nothing else.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19361	The word has a minister, Mr Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19362	I'd like to give a few specs, although I have to admit that I was a little lost, because there were several attitudes that were contradictory. One moment there was talk about some desire to centralize, one moment about the desire to decentralisation; one moment about the necessity to give local self-government the opportunity to give some new taxes; on the other hand, to give some relief, and that it is important to edit everything in one unique and less arbitrary way. What could be added and perhaps further explained? The first thing, one of the reasons why I think the debate on this important issue is a little bit more orderly is because the system itself is more orderly. The number of criteria and, above all, the objectivity of these criteria is much better. Today, if you look at the way money is divided and how it's arranged, if we compare it to what was three, two, and last year, things are much more complete and legally arranged. Thus, it is the best guarantee, when it is adopted, that something has been done in a good way, in the same arch and not according to the relative strength of politicians in this or that environment. It's, I mean, some long-term better thing. The second reason is because the participation of the budget of municipalities has increased in gross national income. Last year it was below 4%, and this year it will be 4.59% of our gross national income. That's because the budgets of municipalities, if you look at them in general, will increase by 48.5% or even 18.8% real this year, when compared to last year, which is faster than all budgets if we look at them in general. Not only that, this law we're talking about today provides, with those 8.6 billion dinars, an increase of 68%. That means 34.4% real growth. It's the fastest growth of any public revenue from any fund. I think that's one of the reasons why debates don't have to be "very tough" than it should be, because indeed, at a given level of ingenuity, something increased by the Law on Local Self-Government, this is a significant part of the funds for local self-government. As for the vault, of course the vaults lead not to greater centralization, but to a better arrangement of our system of public finances. At the 16th agenda of this meeting of the National Assembly, when you will consider the draft law on the final budget of the Republic of Serbia, where we will also have a report on the budgetary inspection, we will see that in a less regulated system of public finances it is possible to waste unintendedly. The introduction of vaults at all levels, on the contrary, will lead not to greater centralisation but to greater order and greater legality. Finally, I would just like to point out that these examples that have been given of a violation of the unity of our fiscal system, as well as what was going on before, show that we must always be careful when giving too much ingenuity to deeply violate a fiscal system. What you get, it's kind of a brother-in-law zone in the country, which doesn't really contribute to the economic activity of the given environment. It can't be said that some of the environments have won a lot. At least ordinary citizens in those environments didn't get much, because the local environment had fewer rates. Some others have won. There have been more malversions than real progress in economic terms. I'd end up here with some extra explanations. Surely, if we're talking about what Mr. Pomorie was saying earlier, we can still talk, but we need to understand everything that's different from these rates. You can see that Black Grass has 90%. Anything that is different from this rate will, to mention again, be used to show a single dose of solidarity in the Republic. The higher the level, for example 60% or 50%, that de facto means that the most positive effects of this share of funds above inflation rate will give more money to those municipalities that have the strongest fiscal potential. At least they'll be the ones with the least fiscal potential. We need to be aware of that. An amendment that would lead to sharing going 50:50 or 60:40, it would lead in real life to a situation where those congregations that have the highest fiscal potential would also have the highest additional resources. In return, it would mean that the budget of the Republic of Serbia, which is not mentioned earlier, would have provided for additional funds, some 290 million dinars for additional funds for municipalities that do not have enough resources, will have so much less for these poorer municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19363	The word has been given by MP Ljubomir Mucic, as representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19364	Mrs. Comic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister, has given you God's attention since we were unable to reach you at two meetings of the Committee. Surely it would be much easier for you to understand what we are and how much we talked about there and what we're talking about here today. I think in all this crowd the most significant amendment to Article 4 of this law is and I think the fate of this law depends mainly on the fate of this amendment. The proposed law on the volume of funds and the participation of municipalities and cities in the income tax and sales tax in 2002 is the most significant act for the construction of the budget of municipalities and cities for the current year. Since the budgets of municipalities, i.e. cities, represent the basic activity and development of local self-government, i.e. the foundations of the functioning of public services and life in them, the majority will be covered by the folk-dark hat, the evil opportunity, and the largest centralisation of funds in the republican budget so far. At the beginning, I would like to stress that the SPS parliamentary group will not support and vote in favour of the bill, as Serbia is not on the right track under its provisions. The above-mentioned assessment is not only a mere phrase of the strongest opposition parliamentary party, but is supported by a number of principled, economic, financial and political reasons, which I will bring out only some of the most significant. First, in principle, this law comes for consideration in the National Assembly by one minute to twelve. It was proposed by emergency procedure and I have to deny you, Minister, this law was not proposed when the Republic budget was adopted. This law was proposed after the adoption of the Law on Local Self-Government, so far it has not been on the agenda, as has most of the financial laws and acts so far. I remind you, the 2001 budget, the 2002 budget, the tax laws and other financial acts, as well as this law and the Budgetary System Act have always been adopted by emergency procedure, in a minute to twelve. This government's relationship to the most significant acts that shape fate and define the position and life of citizens, that is, the standard that exists for more than 70% of citizens only as a theoretical category, suggests uncertainty and fear, suspicion of passing below the grains and running away from the responsibility of such policies and conditions in which the citizens are brought. I pointed to Mr. Djelic's seriousness for the timely adoption of this law almost a month and a half ago, when the Law on the Budgetary System was passed, and my claim really came true. The municipal governments and municipal congregations are in a hopeless situation and in front of great dilemmas because of the delay in this law, and while attending some of the sessions, I saw that they were being charming. One makes budgets, not caring for this law and decisions of this assembly. Others make decisions on temporary financing for April and delay budgeting, and so do those municipalities where there is obstruction and disagreement between your committees and where the agony of your conflicts will preserve power for at least another month. And with some already more temporary measures after the unadopted budget. There is no need to further explain this negative practice, which I am ultimately illustrating part of the reasons for the adoption of the law by emergency procedure, and where it stands, that it is necessary to adopt laws by emergency procedure, in order to prepare municipalities and cities, based on the parameters of this law, budgets and ensure continuity in financing public spending for 2002. The second reason is much more important, because of him, the Socialists will not support this law, and this is a major centralisation of funds in the republican budget and inconsistencies of the government, some mother and some stepmom in determining the annual amount of funds allocated to the exercise of trusted and other laws of certain municipal affairs, i.e. cities. For illustration, I point out only a few examples. First, the planned revenues from sales tax in the republican budget increased by about 75% compared to the assessment of the results in 2001 and the funds to municipalities with nominal growth averaged 48.7%. The question is whether the difference between 27 index points in favour of the Republic is decentralisation of income to local self-government or the centralisation of income. It is interesting, in the end, that we have received information on the Committee, that the sales tax is largely involved in the settlement of the expenditures of the Republic budget, and that the municipalities remain what they are being set out in this law. An even more pronounced example is the comparison of planned revenues with 2001, where the money from the sales tax in the republican budget increased by 230% in 2002, and only in 15 municipalities, of 141 as covered by this law, this index is higher than the determined amount of funds from the previous year. The government's maternal attitude towards certain municipalities is also seen by the volume of funds measured by the growth index compared to the same last year. That index ranged from minus three in Apatin, up to 274% in Presevo. The lowest index of growth up to 50% have Becej, Vršac, Vrnjačka Banja, Zaječar, Kikinda, Kruševac, Požarovac, Sombor, Sremska Mitrovica, Subotica, Valjevo, Užice, Čačak, while index points above 230 have Bolec, Bosilegrad, Bujanovac, Medvedja, Presevo, Lebane, Žitište, Ivanica, Sjenica, Tutin. Based on these parallel indicators, it is very clear that the government's policy is aimed at redistributing poverty and destroying those who still do something in this country. In advance, the assessment is even more indicative after seeing corrective measures and additional scope, due to the worsening economic situation of development, which has received 27 municipalities. And behold, wonders, it argues that these funds are allocated because of the deterioration of the economic situation compared to the increased average in the Republic, which is not true, are already the result of the failure to solve the problem in the economy of these municipalities. I repeat again, start economy and production, because we can't share poverty for long either. According to the unique criteria for equalising the volume of expenditure, the Municipality of Loznica belongs to 49.4 million dinars, Valjeva 57.7 million or 16.8 percent more than Loznica, and Šapcu 73.8 million or 28% more than Valjev, as much as 49.4% more than Loznica. After applying the corrective elements and criteria I was already talking about, Loznica. Now it has the largest allocation of 93.9 million, Shabac 83.4, and Valjevo remained, with its 58 million, as much as at the start of the race. Gentlemen, invest these additional 44 million dinars, or 750,000 euros, in Viskoz in Loznica, and I have nothing against (and I will explain the irregular position of municipalities in the second part, at the end of this debate), and not in the budget of the Municipality of Loznica, and workers and budgets will benefit. To make this finding even more striking, I would remind you that, by your estimates, the total revenue of the Municipality of Loznica's budget is based on sales tax, i.e. on base, 276 million, Valjeva 412 million and Šapca 502 million; means almost twice as much as Capca. (loud from the O.R.): Aren't you jealous? ) I'm not jealous at all, sir, but I just want to express my disagreement with certain principles, that in Loznica kindergartens are financed from sales taxes, and in Valjevo from the funds that have so far been for the development of the municipality, i.e. from former utility fees, i.e. the income tax. If you didn't say that I'm really a local patriot, we should all be the same under this law in order to decentralisation, because this game and the story in Valjev haven't figured it out yet. I'll compare the Krushevac and the King. According to the basic criteria, Kruševac has a larger amount of 14 million funds than Kraljev, which, after receiving 21.3 million for development, has more funds for 11 million. A similar question can be asked - why are about 15 million dinars defined in Priboj and Presevo, is it a reward for temporary measures introduced or for local elections? Advanced illustrations and findings clearly indicate where this locomotive draws the car-cars at the station. I'm just scared of the blind track we're on.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19365	Mr. Martyr, time, or do you want to use the next 10 minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19366	I'll leave 10 minutes to go, I'll just say a few more sentences. Gentlemen, I repeat that without economic growth, there is no revenue from the budget, and the only happiness is that the data used in the social gross product for 2000, since in 2001, Valjevo, or Kruševac, and Sabac are no longer above average. Only commendable are the additional funds to Pancheva and Bora, for the mitigation of the ecological disaster created by NATO bombing, but my question is - should it be citizens and the budgets of these municipalities themselves to pay, if they have already suffered an ecological, health and humanitarian disaster? And finally, the explanation of this reason -- I ask another question, a solution to the dilemma, how, for which purposes and by which criteria will additional funds in the budgets of the municipality be allocated and who guarantees their intentional use, when the purposes are not prescribed and specified? I reserve the right to use the second part of 10 minutes at the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19367	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Mr Milutin Svestanovic, authorised representative of the DOS parliamentary group - Dr Vojislav Kostunica, DSS.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19368	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Chosen One, Mr. Minister, this is one of the laws most discussed in the previous year and a half, and I consider it to be the most debate in this House and beyond. Outside of it -- I mean the Standing Conference of Cities and municipalities of Serbia, in which it was the most common topic of debate. But, to begin with -- a year ago, a year and a half ago, the first proposal, or initiative, of the Law on Local Self-Government, which was initiated by the Palgo Centre; in this part of the financing of local self-government, was just something that pointed to the right and essential decentralisation in the area of funding of local self-government, which was simply that there was no second position in Article 4 of this Law, which says that there are so-called. Excesses collected in the application of this law. Furthermore, in February, this Law on Local Self-Government was passed and the DSS wanted to amend Article 99. The law intervenes in that, simply, you so-called. The surpluses, which arise as a result of the implementation of the spending framework, remain local self-government, and in order for what would be transferred to the Republic to be achieved by being fixed coefficients all the time, all 12 months. Since it has not passed, and it has not passed, I believe, solely because of the current chairman, Mrs Comic, did not allow the quorum to be established, this time, when the debate on amendments is held, I will explicitly insist on it. Then, at the time of the adoption of the Law on Local Self-Government, Mr. Ciric, who is the president of our association, said publicly at the association, as well as here, that an agreement was reached with the Ministry of Finance that they would be so-called. Excesses to share in relation to 50-50. We, as our president, have all believed and rejoiced that there was finally some decentralisation in this fiscal part. However, after the adoption of the Law on Local Self-Government, we now have that Mr Batic and the Ministry of Justice organise a conference, which you unfortunately did not attend, and it would be worth it if you were, where the effects of the Law on Local Self-Government were discussed; your assistant, who was there, spoke of the decentralization being carried out, and in fact he was speaking a lie, because decentralisation was not carried out. This time, Mr. Minister, as my Sumadinians would say, we must agree at the bottom of the field on what we will adopt in the second part of the debate on this law, so we should also agree on this redistribution. I would like to thank the Committee, members of the Committee, who have accepted the initiative, namely the proposed DSS amendment, for these so-called surpluses are divided by 60:40, in favour of local self-government. I must say that the MPs of the League of Social Democrats, and New Serbia, and the Democratic Alternative, and the Democrats, and the opposition parties voted for this amendment, and I hope that the amendment here, in a later debate, will pass. What I don't like is the expression, Mr. Minister, that you're using, and that shouldn't be used, you say - we're asking for more money. We're not asking for any more money. We simply want to give less. So that's the difference. We want to give less, Mr. Minister. So that's the difference, and we don't want you talking about doing some experiments. You are seriously the Ministry of Finance and you have enough experts not to do some experiments here, but to work on one serious law. I'd still say that from my colleagues here, there's been a lot of talk about this law from some local patient position, and they've just interpreted the positions of the cities they come from, and that's not good. But I will only mention one city, and I have also mentioned this to the Committee -- in this analysis, which was done, where the amount of funds was viewed, or the framework that was set aside for 2001 and the amount of funds allocated for 2002, is mostly somewhere between 1.28 and 1.20 to even 2.80 times the framework of last year. However, there is a town called Apatin, which has less money in the whole story than last year. That's inadmissible. When I asked the ministry gentlemen -- why is that, they answered -- well, they have a "pivara" and they don't complain. That's not true, I checked with my colleague, the president of the municipality -- he says they just weren't asked about this percentage. I apologize one more time, but I had to say that, the truth works for both Apatin and once again, and to say that the Democratic Party of Serbia will certainly support the bill in principle, and what the Shumadins say is "at the bottom of the field to agree" on this Article 4. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19369	Does any of the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, come forward for a word on this agenda? No, I don't. ) We move on to the discussion of MPs according to the application for a word in the discussion of the Law on the participation of municipalities and cities in taxes in 2002. The word has been given by the People's MP Milutin Svedović (relenting). I give my word to the MP Peter Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19370	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I make a few remarks on behalf of the Serbian Unity Party's Parliament Club regarding the Bill on the Participation of Municipalities and Cities, not to read the full name of the law, I have one principled objection to the Ministry. As I can see, Mr. Secretary has left the O.R., but here are his assistants, who also don't listen. Today, on March 27th and by law, as far as I know, by March 31st, the municipality should adopt its budgets to which these funds are to be entered, which we are talking about today. It may be that the debate on this issue will be delayed -- whether municipalities will be able to comply with the law; and, as far as I know, this could be read from the press, in many municipalities, sessions have already been held and budgets have been adopted. So someone told these municipalities, and in most of these municipalities DOS is in power, you adopt budgets, this law will pass, and the form has to be implemented, there must be a debate on it. When the Ministry prepared this bill, it certainly did not take into account the municipalities that have suffered huge damages over the past years from elemental disasters, such as floods, then from the aggression of the NATO Pact, because many buildings and many citizens have nothing to live on, and the infrared and municipal structure in these municipalities is in very poor condition; therefore, it was not taken into account when the percentages and the amount of funds that these municipalities will be subject to. It was also not taken into account, regardless of the increase in the percentage of the participation of municipalities in the part of sales and part of profits, that in many municipalities business entities, primarily social and state, do not work or work with a very small percentage in the use of their capacities, and where that sales tax will be affected and where the income tax will be affected when there is no profit in these municipalities, there is no money. Therefore, these municipalities had to make the proposal more, to increase the percentage of their participation, i.e. the nominal amount. For these reasons, the MP group of the Serbian Unity Party will not vote in principle for this bill, and if our amendments are accepted we will probably support this law in general. I would take the opportunity to mention only one municipality from this pay phone, as many municipalities are mentioned here, and this is one of the most underdeveloped municipalities in both Serbia and the maritime district, the Rekovac municipality, which has some 9,000 inhabitants, where economic operators are collapsed. Simply, it does not work 80% of business entities, the citizen who deals with agriculture is the average age of over 60 years, so I ask - where will the municipality collect its claims if the budget, or the Republic of Serbia, does not allocate the surplus funds to cover the costs it has as well as any municipality. I think that's what the minister said, if the municipalities prevent the gray economy. How these municipalities will prevent the gray economy, if all state authorities, market and financial inspection, are under the authority of the republican authorities. What's in the community and what organs it has that it can prevent, at this point, the gray economy. Why don't we reform the tax system in another way, because we're "as on the right path", because I'm constantly reading that slogan in the newspaper and I see on TV, we're "as on the right path", so why don't we just go from that developed West, when it comes to tax policy, and we don't go over to our reform tax laws, and we'll probably stop the further development of the grey economy if someone doesn't want to continue to be a grey economy. So I think it's just one political term, political marketing, that municipalities are fighting to prevent the development of the gray economy in their fields. The municipalities were said to have left a part of the tax and would thus increase their revenues in budgets. What taxes under the Law on Local Self-Government were left entirely at the disposal of municipalities? As you remember, these are income taxes from autonomous activity, on real estate income, and you see how big taxes will be from renting moving things. The "really" municipalities will have a very, very large income. Then, out of the winnings of gambling -- I guess we should all start gambling, play bingo, so that our municipalities, where we live, if we're happier winners, can collect taxes and make communal good for the benefit of all citizens of that municipality. In the end - on income receipts from face insurance. I wouldn't say that again, how much it's guaranteed, etc. There is much more to be said about this law -- that it is not good, that municipalities from it will not benefit much, because as our economy works throughout Serbia, as our employees are economic capacity, what growth will be in this year, I think most municipalities will ask that from the budget of the Republic of Serbia the funds they could not make up for on their territory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19371	Do you have any suggestions on the Rules of Procedure? A suggestion? On the breach of the Rules of Procedure can only be a president and a deputy, if you have any concrete suggestions? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19372	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, soon it will be a pause and it would be pointless, regardless of the fact that we may not have a quorum, to continue to work, but it's neither my goal nor my intention, but I've come out for something else. Namely, in accordance with Article 95. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly position 2 and, if you want to see both pages 3 and 4, I would also like to make clear which MPs of the Serbian Radical Party came to. We also see this in the absence of Ministers Djelic and Cedomir Jovanovic, as well as many others who should attend the sittings -- a serious violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is being prepared. Because of the fact that this is the most legitimate body in the Republic, that this is the highest and most important organ in Serbia, I would like to ask as the National Assembly to request and obtain an opinion from the Government of the Republic of Serbia on whether this is true and if it is possible to move ahead, because they tell us that a decision will be made today at 1400 hours at the meeting of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to prevent the anti-constitutional arrest, kidnapping, so the kidnapping of citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the sending to The Hague casamat. I ask you, on behalf of the People's MPs of the National Assembly in general, that we manage to do so, because they will not fail and shame only on the government of Serbia, but on all those who may have been informed of it, and nothing in any way they wanted to do, could or wanted to do so. Serbia is neither the Serbian government nor Zoran Djindjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19373	Please define a proposal I'm going to put to the vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19374	Why are you impatient, Mrs. Micic? The moment I mention the name of the Prime Minister, the moment I mention his name, you start to react, even though I haven't used any offensive word, except I said that this country isn't his, or anyone else's. It is my suggestion that we get an opinion, ask for an explanation, and try to prevent such a thing from happening, in accordance with Article 95(2). Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It seems to me that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has the most significant impact on the work of this one of two in the bicepal system of the executive government, and it seems to me that no one can dispute the role of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I think that because of the conscience of each of the MPs, but also because of the people and citizens of Serbia, because of the whole Serbian people, it would be good for you to get that opinion and inform the National Assembly in the afternoon part of the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19375	I am putting to the vote the proposal of MP Alexander Vukic, who is not quite clearly defined. For 35, against 75, a abstention one, did not vote 66, a total of 177. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal of MP Alexander Vukic. The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19376	Dear Presidency, honourable Members of Parliament, honored guests of the National Assembly, today we have on the agenda a bill on the volume of funds and participation of municipalities and cities in the income tax and sales tax in 2002. We talked a lot about details, the material is accurate and the figures are present, but like most predecessors, I will talk about some principles and something that has been present in public for a year and a half when it comes to system laws concerning local self-government, such as the Law on Local Self-Government, and so does this draft law on the agenda today. The work of the Permanent Conference of Cities and Municipalities has already been mentioned here; and what was the conclusion of the Permanent Conference before last year's adoption of last year's law was respect for two principles. We have heard different opinions today on principles, on the principle of solidarity that must certainly exist between different cities and municipalities and local self-government, and this principle is certainly respected in this bill. What we insisted on was the introduction of a new principle, which is the principle of motivation for local self-government, which must fight for their own incomes and which must be more creatively involved in the development policy of local self-government. Of course, all of us who work in cities and municipalities know the relationship, the majority opinion and the people sitting in these benches, that local self-government and people running cities and municipalities are in charge of municipal systems and only that, however, the adoption of the Law on Local Self-Government introduces and some new institutions that must encourage this very local development and strengthen the influence of local self-government representatives in local development of cities and municipalities. Therefore, at the Permanent Conference, as representatives of cities and municipalities, we insisted precisely on introducing this principle. We heard in previous exhibitions different approaches, from individual approaches and from the principles proposed by different divisions in that part of the funds above the limits. The limit is the most frequently mentioned word for this pay phone today. When this law was debated, we passed exactly the proposal and gave the Ministry of Finance the proposal last year to share the share above the traffic tax income limit of 50 to 50%. As the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities of Yugoslavia was mentioned, the speaker Mr. Svetovic mentioned that we do not respect these agreements, his amendment went and was already talking about the amendment. It is this debate in principle, but it spoke of an amendment proposing a relationship of 60 to 40 in favour of local self-government. I have the minutes from the meeting of the Presidency of the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities, where the proposed 50% ratio at the expense of the Republic of Serbia's budget is said to be in accordance with Article 49 and 50% at the expense of the municipality's budget. So it is a proposal from the representatives of cities and municipalities, and I expect that we will come to that solution; I hope that it will be mechanisms that will show to all of us that we have the strength first and that this assembly has the strength to talk about these problems and try to find a dynamic relationship, the relationship between the representatives of local self-government and the representatives of the Ministry of Finance and, of course, Mr. Minister. It's our job to work on curbing the gray economy, smuggling. All those who spoke about the previous relationship, their relationship when they were in power, according to local self-government, do not have much space to talk about their concern for local self-government, because they simply did not have the strength to open these topics to this congregation. I will speak on the Nis case that it is true that with new government measures there is constant work in local budgets and all other representatives of local self-government can say so. In 2000, Nis had a total budget of around 30 million marks, the 2001 budget was realised at a level of 50 million marks and, above all, tax policy and the fight against the grey and black market. It is true that all these moves of our government have had extraordinary effects, and that is a number that can be checked and which is correct. It did give the city strength, but that, of course, isn't enough. In 2002. So this year's budget of 70 million marks is projected and I believe we'll make it happen. Of course, that is not enough, but it should also be taken into account macroeconomic relations, so what is the need of the central budget, in order for it to meet its obligations to all the users of the republican budget. It is clear that there should be enough patience and enough brains for these two systems - representatives of local self-government, the Ministry of Finance - to find a model and a way to determine this dynamic relationship and arrangements in which we can move things and bring those funds closer to local self-government by solving the administrative problems that are happening on our doorsteps. So we can bring in at least those grains of development, because a lot of money goes into collapsed infrastructure systems, into huge problems, which, of course, should be raised, and you can't raise them overnight, because they've been destroyed for 15 years and of course it's a bottomless well. The money invested in infrastructure projects at the level of local self-government can also boost possible development, new investments, because no one will come to invest in our cities and municipalities unless you have good roads, unless you have a good supply of electricity, unless you have all those systems of good school and all that it takes to live normally in municipalities and cities. So, in this way we can enter those grains of development, with an amount that can stimulate those who generate higher income and greater income through more efficient local government management, and on the other hand, and those who have so far been demoted by the fact that they are meant to have income no matter how successful they are. So municipalities that were the subject of solidarity of course must continue to be subject to solidarity and receive from the central budget sufficient funds for normal function. In such a way, we can stimulate both the process and the other, that those who have been touched and touched so far, to fight for their own incomes, and that those who generate incomes are stimulated to work even better and have additional motives to attract additional investments and solve what is the biggest problem with all of us, and that is certainly a high level of unemployment and average income that is greater than the average income of a year ago, but of course it is necessary to raise that level of income. So, all the concern about the local self-governments we heard from this payphone -- especially the former Deputy Prime Minister talked about it and how to preserve local self-government, and we had an example in Nis that the money from the tobacco industry's sales tax, one powerful industry, had been poured back five years through the excise warehouses that the government had just formed, but not in Nis, but in Vranje and Belgrade. Nis nor the dinars have seen of these tax havens and thank God there are different solutions and thank God there is one better trend at this point. I think with this solution, with this proposal and this amendment in Article 4, we can give exactly the component that is necessary, which is a component of development in all our local self-governments. Thank you for your patience and your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19377	I thank the People's MP. I'm setting a break to 15 hours and five minutes. [[After break - 15.55.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please insert identification cards to determine the quorum and continuation of the session. I find that we have a quorum and that we can continue the work of the Law on the participation of municipalities and cities in taxes during 2002 with principled consideration. According to applications for the word of the People's Messengers, I give my word to the People's Messenger, Milorad Mircic. After him, the word comes from MP Dusan Golubovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19379	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the best thing about this law is the amendments that have been proposed. Percently looking at 80% of the amendments is right from the DOS coalition. That wouldn't be strange if it weren't for the law proposed by their government, or their minister. That says well enough how fair, just and principled this law is. It is evident that a previous-term mistake has been maintained in this government, too, is that there is nothing from decentralisation of local authorities and self-government. Stories about government decentralisation in Serbia are falling into the water. First, the law that was in this assembly at the previous session, which provided for all the money in Serbia to be in one vault and to be available to one man, in this case the finance minister, made it clear that there is no independence when it comes to finance. Secondly, of all those fairy-tales, as the Prime Minister knows and can do in ezopoic style, that the municipalities will have their money, this law is clearly put to the knowledge -- there's no such story, there's nothing out of that fairy tale. What is alarming is when MPs from the DOS ranks come out for this pay phone, and among them prominent officials at the level of self-government, it just seems devastating that these people are thinking about the work they're doing at the local level. We had the opportunity to hear even one chairman of the parent board in the Assembly, who was currently assigned to the jobs of the city's prime minister in Belgrade, who told a story for serious people, especially people who deal with politics, it's just amazing that he didn't get to know the essence of this issue of distribution. If I don't talk about other individuals, they don't matter in this story. It is characteristic of the following: that the citizens of Serbia will continue to be distracted forever. Gentlemen, these are the funds used to fund the budget. These are funds financed by the administration. There's no room for manipulation. (Milka Marinkovic: Impossible. ) Milka, you are now the president of a small palace. You'd better sit back and listen, maybe learn something, not cry and complain all the time. Don't let them call you pay, you better listen a little more carefully, so maybe you'll learn something smart if you can't go home. Whether 2%, 3%, 10%, these funds go into the budget of the assembly, or local self-government. They are distributed and deployed by means of material costs and special purposes. What's weird about that? It's strange to go out with one fraud, a deliberate fraud, with a story from individuals that these funds are not enough to invest, as he said, I hear that President Nisha is. Man has no idea what this is about. What investments and funds used for the budget? These funds are used to maintain the administration and nothing else. And why are these funds and this kind of distribution to the current government? They only serve to blackmail local self-government. Whoever's good, he'll get extra funding. The one who's not good is the question of whether or not he'll be able to make these funds come true. Why is it a question? Because the minister has just admitted - bringing the grey economy to a minimum will allow local self-government to increase budget funds, i.e. to increase the funds provided for by this law. Whoever regulates the gray economy -- that's exactly the minister who was speaking from this pay phone. Gentlemen, other and different criteria must be taken, real criteria. What's the population criterion, how reliable? What does the number of inhabitants in relation to the larger area mean, what does the number of inhabitants mean in relation to much more developed infrastructure? What does the territorial area occupied by the municipality mean, if it is an infrastructure, especially if the institutions are for children, primary or secondary education at a higher level of development? What's a fact, it has to be introduced once, which is that the municipalities remain the money that's being made in its territory. As far as the government is going to decide to grant those funds, that is now a key issue. Whether it will be 6% or 7% of the total sales tax or the income of citizens, the government will decide. And the revenue community will have these resources, and then the able power comes to terms. Now, this DOS government is a social, social case, where the minister will give you a spoon.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19380	The word has the People's Messenger Nenad Bogdanovic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19381	I have to rephrase, simply because I can't figure out where freedom comes from someone who doesn't understand anything, but she doesn't understand anything at all, she spent a year and a half at the mayor's place or something in Novi Sad, and he's giving sermons to people who made concrete arguments. I can't figure out that someone can talk for six minutes without saying anything, except to insult all those who know something. So everything Mr. Mircic said just says he has no idea what he's talking about. I'd ask him to keep talking like that, because I think the people in this country have figured out who has no idea about anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19382	The word has a People's MP Dusan Golubovic, followed by MP Dusan Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19383	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today this Parliament is talking about the proposal for a law on the volume of funds and the participation of municipalities and cities in the income tax and sales tax in 2002. Otherwise, the basis for the adoption of this law is related to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, more specifically to the members of the 72nd and 114th of this constitution. Also, the Law on Local Self-Government, which we recently adopted, regulated that a special law lays down the total annual amount of funds to be made available to municipalities and cities from income generated from taxes on profits and taxes on the sales of products and services. Speaking of the Law on Local Self-Government, I think its weakest part is very much related to the sources and methods of financing of municipalities, or cities. The DSS has tried to fix this part of the law with numerous amendments, but unfortunately, it was least likely right in the area of financing municipalities, or cities. Of course, the funds are achieved from taxes on earnings and taxes on sales and services are one of the most important items in the structure of the income of one city or municipality, at least in most municipalities. I know there are some richer municipalities, I'm going to take an example of Subotica, where it's not exactly like that, one other tax is much more important than this. That's why he's in Article 4. The proposal for this law is extremely significant because, when the payment of revenue is made, the total amount of the funds referred to in Article 2 of this Act, i.e. the amount of funds, in accordance with the dynamics established by the municipal balance, ceases to be transferred on behalf of the municipality, i.e. the city resulting from the sales tax on products and services. I must say, except for what has been regulated by the Law on Local Self-Government, that is Article 98 paragraph 1 point 6) of point (2), (3). and (4). These are fixed sales taxes of 8%, 10%, 15%, or for municipalities, cities and the city of Belgrade. So they're fixed and it's exclusive of this. The funds achieved above the dynamics identified by the general balance sheet are transferred to the account of the Republic of Serbia's vault. So, when that framework is passed, that monthly dynamic, all of it is then poured into the vault of the Republic of Serbia. I'll give you an example of Kragujevac: last year, it's absolutely true, we've had cases that in the first half of the month, even on the ninth in the month, we filled out that bonus, that framework and all the more and more to the vault of the Republic. In fact, much more money has been deposited in the account of the Republic, i.e. now on the Republic vault compared to local self-government. This is the weakest part of this law. The DSS still tried to correct this illogicality at the Law on Local Self-Government. As a result, the DSS submitted to Article 4 an amendment that the funds achieved above the dynamics identified by the general balance sheet share between local self-government and the Republic in relation to 60:40 in favour of local self-government. Yesterday, the financial committee gave this a positive assessment. I'm watching if there's a Salesman, but it's not. I know it's a similar case with Gornji Milanovac, because last year big funds and they moved on to the Republic. The main objective of this amendment is to ensure a fairer distribution compared to the current law, and positive results would be felt primarily by citizens of municipalities, or cities. As regards Article 4, I must say, it is good that if there is an increase in prices to a little relative to the projected prices for 2002, and they are projected to 20%, then in municipalities where taxes on earnings and sales taxes are provided, they will be corrected and be given part of the funds achieved. The funds, the minister is not here, would be centrally determined on a proposal from the finance minister. It's true that it's not exactly a specific mechanism to make it work, but let's essentially accept that it's good. In fact, our municipalities and cities have been so underprivileged for the last ten years, and in particular their infrastructure has been destroyed, that any significant inflow of money would in this way significantly increase their budgets, and above all this would affect the better and better life of the citizens themselves. Normally, I care about it being for all the municipalities, but trust me, I think the most about the citizens of Kragujevci and we even had a meeting here yesterday. There is indeed an extremely difficult situation in Kragujevac, and above all, this infrastructure and municipal activity. Finally, the DSS will support this draft law on profit and sales tax in principle. I hope, indeed, that by adopting our amendment, which is the 60-40 in favour of local self-government, this law will be significantly improved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19384	Thank you. The word is by MP Dusan Cvetkovic, followed by MP Slavoljub Matic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19385	The Honorable Presidency, honourable fellow MPs, Mr. Absent Ministers, when we recently discussed the Law on Local Self-Government, we of the SPS Group pointed to the senselessness of Members 98. The Law on Local Self-Government, the Ministry of Finance also declared this member a minority revolutionary part of the law that would bring prosperity and significant increases in budget revenues to local self-government. With regard to these different views, here are the honourable fellow MPs, just some more confirmations of our then correctly expressed views, and about the "savoury" revenues on just a few examples from the municipalities of Jablani County, where I come from and whose interests I represent. It is known, honourable fellow Members, that the proposal for a law on the volume of funds and the participation of municipalities and cities in the income tax and sales tax for 2002 is linked in all segments to Article 98. Law on local self-government. Of those six taxes that the Republic generously gave up, Leskovac will fill the planned budget of 558 million dinars with a farm tax of 500,000 dinars, with about a million dinars of insurance income and a little more than one million inheritance tax, without further mentioning revenues such as renting mobile goods. How much money is really donated from the Republic, and not how much they are planned, I guess it's enough to remind you and my Leskovčana that the gambling tax in the first two months hasn't been collected, and the inheritance tax for January and February of this year we can buy as much as a dozen kilos of coffee. You never know, maybe on the hook, as we say about what will never happen, it will thunder some lottery bonus and Leskovac will get rich, or Leskovci will mass-record their property to their successors, and, of course, provided Mr. Djelic invents an injection to take their minds out. So the large revenues left by the republican budget, which are barely written in three zero figures, my Leskovci have given up, so 165,000 citizens living more than 1,000 square miles south of Serbia in Leskovačko Koolin will indeed flourish. How high these self-rejection values are, and to mention the small municipality of Bojnik with 15,000 inhabitants, whose name was the Republic in the first two months gave up the entire 23,000 dinars of agricultural tax, zero dinars of insurance and 18,000 inheritance taxes. The biggest layoffs of the republican budget are, of course, from the lease of mobile items in the municipality of Major, and there are three zeroes. Imagine the sacrifice of the Republic budget. As you can see, here the republican budget, knowing what the funds are, has really completely disowned those revenues, because their level is hard to cover and coffee in the Republic Government. In the case of the volume of funds and the participation of municipalities in the income tax and sales tax for 2002, i.e. a part of these funds granted to municipalities in order to equalise the volume of public expenditure, then man cannot be taken away from the impression that the Republic's budget is introduced by this legislative proposal by other purely political arches. As these revenues of the budget have become uncertain, as is all insecure in this Serbia, the republican budget is again carried by Leskovac very narrow and very stingy, and by running a clean policy. For years, Leskovac remained between 30% and 40% of the total sales tax collected, and last 2001 that participation was 18.7%. By adopting new political criteria, the Ministry of Finance has approved a city of 165,000, which is on the verge of DOS and socialist authorities, as we currently have 33 council members in the municipality's assembly, through participation in the sales tax and income tax limit of 120 million dinars. The DOS Nis, with 252,000 inhabitants, almost 400 million dinars. DOS, transparent, there's nothing. Every citizen, half-dozen - half-socialist, in Leskovac has the right to 730 dinars of these money a year, and every citizen, but DOS citizen from Nis 1.580 dinars, which is two and a few times more, although Nis has only about 60% more inhabitants. By adopting new, only known political criteria, the Ministry of Finance is a city in which all textile factories and literally closed out of the famous five-octobar revolutions and do almost nothing, so about 5,000 Letex workers receive about a few hundred dinars, reduce their participation from 18.7 to 13.3%. When it comes to the other municipalities of Jablanic County, all of them remained at the previous level or lower, as in Medvedja for an entire 11.6%. So now the Major remains 40% of the sales tax, which in the first two months according to the traffic achieved is 1.7 million dinars, and it is almost certain that there is no way to achieve it. This is the situation in other municipalities, but also from this poor woman who is collected in these extremely poor and undeveloped municipalities, the republican budget, unfortunately, will affect the lion's share of these revenues. What Article 4 of this legislative proposal also deserves is a special criticism, not taking into account the Jablani district but developed regions, which is that the republican budget of this member has been provided, and developed municipalities with strong industry and high employment, where higher incomes can be achieved than provided for in Article 2 of this Act, virtually for a whole three months, retains more money from sales taxes and taxes on earnings and only afterwards returns the percentage share of their participation, if approved by the Ministry of Finance, and we know in advance that the Ministry of Finance and the Government will react. It seems to me that a much more stimulating tax charge would be to do so on a monthly basis, thus reducing unnecessary administration. It is certain that for all local self-governments it is better that the government and the competent minister are not at all engaged and burdened with specific decisions, which will determine the amounts of the funds referred to in Article 4, or at least be compared to 50:50, which will be returned to them afterwards. Of course, it would make sense that this legal act, which we are adopting today, has indeed shown an excellent intention to be truly transparent, what response and password has primarily this Ministry of Finance when speaking publicly, but not when creating legal proposals. Finally, with the Interim Decision of the Assembly on Financing until the adoption of the budget, Leskovac remained a sales tax of 18.7%, and his rate will be reduced to 13.3%, it is realistic to expect that in April Leskovac will be deprived of these funds, and this will certainly create serious problems in the functioning of the wooden self-government. For all of these reasons, the SPS will be in principle against this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19386	The president of the SSJ parliamentary group, MP Dragan Markovic, spoke. It's the first call from the head of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19387	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Soviet Union believes that participation of cities is not what cities should be when it comes to the figure and percentage for the budget, because it was done in a selective way, in a way that if it is a senior official of the ruling party and if it has a certain influence in the government, that city will get a higher percentage, and that is how it happened (in particular for the city of Nis, the predecessor mentioned). Because if we look at the criterion -- the population number, then it's not the same parity in other cities. The Soviet Union has remarked on several cities in Serbia. The first remark is on the town of Kragujevac - 353,147,245 dinars are scheduled. We think it's a very small number, given that in Kragujevac, people have lost their jobs and that if this percentage of the figure is to remain for the town of Kragujevac, local self-government has to make an urgent decision on some social assistance or some social programme in that city. More than 15,000 workers are out of work and a large number of Serbs from Cosmet came to Kragujevac, there are tenants, they have nothing to live on, no help is received. We thought we needed to increase this city's figure by 15%. In Arangelovac there is also a large number of Serbs from Cosmet, they no longer receive the help they received from the Serbian government, waiting for local self-government, but if this proposed figure remains, local self-government will not be in a position to get them into a certaint. As for Batocina, Batocina had a flood, a great damage to agriculture was done to the peasants. The damage is not compensated. We can see these days that some peasants in the Machuvani County have gone out on the street looking for some of their rights. We once proposed a few amendments when it comes to peasants, just when it comes to car registration, that peasants get rid of it and that they can register cars if they haven't paid a certain tax, because they're not paid agricultural pensions and hand over agricultural products. We have a problem in the Great Plan. There are also a large number of Serbs from Cosmet who need help, and they are asking local self-government to help them. In Despotovac, which is a smaller city, which won 26,448,840 dinars, the economy is catastrophic, citizens in Despotovac also cannot live off their work and wait for something local self-government to help them, or the Serbian government. The Jagodina, known to have had a flood in 1999, flooded 2,500 houses, to this day the damage has not been paid to the citizens and local self-government is not in the situation, based on this imagined inflow in the budget, to pay for that damage. So the government needs to increase the percentage so these people can pay off certain damage. The people whose houses are flooded are in one building, with 20 other families from Cosmet, they've been cut off by electricity and water ten days ago, because apparently, these citizens haven't paid for electricity and water, and they have no place to pay, because they don't work anywhere and have no income. Therefore, it is necessary to increase the percentage for Jagodina, so that local self-government can help these citizens. The Lapovo, too, was a city that had a flood, with great damage. Someone mentioned Leskovac, I often travel to Leskovac, I have a large number of friends there. There are many promises, that there will be a large number of small and medium-sized enterprises and that a large number of workers who are currently not working and those who expect to lose their jobs will be employed in these companies. None of that, however. In Paracino, too, there is a small figure - 35.313.382 dinars. Given that there is a natural wealth there, which was sold a month ago - the cement factory, we suggested that a much higher percentage of the money taken from the sale of the factory remain for the city and for the Pomorava County. That was our amendment. Here in the Assembly is not accepted, and here we are now in a situation where a very small figure is proposed for this city. We have a problem in Raca - 12,347,280 is proposed for Rač. The duck also had a flood. It is a small municipality that has no developed economy, agriculture is in a catastrophic state, so they too need to increase by 10% of the proposed figure. (A voice from the O.R.: We all need to increase. Someone's throwing - everyone there. Well, maybe 80% of Serbia's cities should have a certain increase, in money and in percentage, because it's known, gentlemen, what you promised, and that none of that is there. You know where the budget should be charged. The budget is full, both municipal and republican, of wages and of various contributions from sales taxes. We know very well that there is no traffic in Serbia, that wages are low. It is that the money mass is increased, but the purchasing power has been reduced. We have a problem in Triestenik. For Triestenik 35,083,849 dinars are offered. In Tristenik, there is a factory called "The First Five-year-old", which has 16,000 workers, and these days, within a month, more than 10,000 workers are expected to be out of work. Unless local self-government proposes a social programme, but to the Serbian government to help that part of Serbia, I don't think these citizens will have anything to live on. Just to remind you that street democracy began in Triestenik and that in Trieste, citizens first went to the streets in 2000 and 1996, and that you forgot their attention and help very quickly. The turkey is a small town, which has the best infrastructure, along the highway, and the economy has clearly stopped. The crisis headquarters virus has not stopped, the president of the municipality has changed, the DOS has split, the first parties have split, the DS has two currents, the DSS two, the interparty division, and who suffers -- suffers from citizens. They also experienced aggression in 1999. They haven't been paid for the damage to the collapsed houses in this town. The proposed figure is 29.537,376. I wonder, there's no Minister Djelic, why he didn't come to Turkey to talk to those citizens for a little while, and gurija, gentlemen, for your information, there's no water. Imagine, in the 21st century, a city, where 10% of households have enough water, and 90% of households in the country have to get up early in the morning, so they can catch some liters of water and do what they need to do during the day. The Soviet Union will not vote in favour of this bill in principle, because we believe that the proposed percentage and figures, as well as the source of revenue from which it is planned to fill this budget, are very small. It is said there in Article 3 that if the budget in municipalities is not realised, the government will make up for it on the basis of the revenues of the Republic budget. However, it is known that the government's budget has never been realised with 100%, and yet, who suffers, they suffer inland. I ask you, at one of the next sessions, let's take a look at these inner cities, because everything that's come to Serbia and Yugoslavia is left in Belgrade, and help, and buses and not to mention what's happened lately, we've been able to see it through RTS, and no one's taking care of inside cities. You MPs who sit here have an obligation to represent your citizens, where you are elected and where you came from. Now they call me because I mention some cities and I don't live and I'm not from that neighborhood. I often, people call us, asking us, because we are MPs, to represent all cities and all citizens in Serbia, and not to act selectively and to help only those cities from which officials are in the Serbian government, and for that is also an indicator of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19388	Thank you. The word has a National MP Slavoljub Matic, followed by Đuro Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19389	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Presidency, I regret that I do not see Minister Djelic here, nor the Assistant Minister, and I wonder why this discussion of ours. For months local self-government has been waiting for this law, so that in local self-government we can bring budgets, and the minister won't hear the voice of the people, so I wonder why this discussion. In two sessions of the Finance Committee, I talked about the demands of the Democratic Party of Serbia to rightly stimulate local self-government, to rightly share the extra funds that will be collected through taxes, and this is not just the conclusion of the amendment that regulates it to Article 4. It is not only the conclusion of the Democratic Party of Serbia, but it is also the conclusion of a permanent conference of cities and municipalities. I will remind you of our discussions when we passed the Law on Local Self-Government and the need for local self-government to be decentralised, not only through the organisation of local self-government, but primarily through decentralisation of financial resources. There is no better way, especially if we are reminded of examples of positive examples from the world and Europe, if we remind ourselves that the European average of local self-government participation in gross national income is somewhere between 8% and 9%, if we also remind ourselves that the UK singles out about 12% of local self-government, and that the current situation in Serbia is somewhere between 4% and 5%, and it is normal that we have a situation for our citizens to have bad local roads, unsettled municipal infrastructure things, because they have dirty streets, poor cultural policies in the local, unturned schools, and not to talk about everything that our village and our city need. I wonder how to reach these funds, especially if we have areas in Serbia that are directly threatened by the actions of this Republic government, which directly discriminates against those areas. Slagvort gave me one sentence today by Minister Djelic, who said he included two criteria in the schedule of percentages of cities' participation in sales tax, without including a third one this year, in my opinion, a very important criterion, which is environmental protection. So I wonder how long the municipality of Pozarec, especially the town of Kostolac and surrounding towns, will be exploited from the rest of Serbia, so that the same minister Djelic, the same Republic government, allows the EPS not to settle its obligations to municipal budgets, based on rent, the base of property tax, based on many things. For example, last year alone, the EPS remained in debt, according to the financial police records, 72 million municipal budgets. I wonder how to fix water supply, clean the streets, organize life, one quality life. To remind myself of the problems of Kostolcan, to remind myself that it is a city with the highest percentage of carcinogenic diseases, to remind Minister Djelic that we are walking around in a bone grave and see between my age and his age a large number of years written on graves, to ask ourselves how it is possible to have the same relationship with these problems as the predecessors who have tolerated such an EPS relationship to the places where it was exploited, where it is produced. I know it's very difficult to schedule percentages in cities and municipalities. I suppose even G17, in the form of some collective minister, wouldn't be able to schedule those percentages and set everyone up. But I'm not sure there's justice everywhere. I will paraphrasise the trustee of the G17 office in Pozharevec, who even mentioned that the fact that three MPs who come from Povorec, who are not their members or not in some reform parties, is the reason the Fireman is suffering. I wonder if it's possible there's a discriminatory relationship with people representing the Fireman. Whether it is the prime minister's relationship to Pozarevec, because of the fact that Slobodan Milosevic was born in him, or perhaps it is the relation of the Republic government to the fact that the president of the Assembly is a member of the Democratic Party of Serbia. I hope not. And, precisely because I hope not, the Democratic Party of Serbia will vote in principle for this law, but it will try to convince, and I hope that we have convinced all the responsible people in this House that the extra funds will be allocated, if not 60-40, and then I will pray for a minister, who is unfortunately not there, that perhaps on the Finance Committee, the possibility and 50-50 allocations of extra funds, which may be agreed by us from the Democratic Party of Serbia and the other MPs. At least we talked about it with our colleagues and I hope it's acceptable for the minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19390	The word has a People's MP Đuro Popovic, followed by Predrag Mijailovic-Lune.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19391	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is not an easy task for us to pass a law on the volume of funds and the participation of municipalities and cities in the income tax and sales tax in 2002, which is ahead of us. That's what I'm saying, keeping in mind the inadequacy, least of all, the suggestion that's ahead of us. The first is the fact that this important business has not been properly approached, although it is very well known to the extent that the city of Novi Sad is at risk due to the consequences of NATO bombing, both bridges in the Danube, and even more so because of the destruction of the New Sad oil refinery. Although the Law on Local Self-Government provides for one of the criteria and environmental status when additional funds are involved, it is not clear on what criteria the amount of two million and 345 thousand dinars is allocated to cities, since two thirds of these funds were offered to Belgrade, one million and 680 thousand dinars, while one third was allocated to Novi Sad, Nis and Kragujevac, from 9.6% to 10.1% when the distribution of these funds would be applied to the allocated funds by applying the basic criteria laid down in the law, certainly the city of Novi Sad alone would need to deploy 355 million dinars instead of the proposed 235 million dinars. The criteria referred to in Article 99(2) shall also apply. The law on local self-government does not cover the total number of school and pre-school facilities, nor does the total number of children cover child care in balances in support of the bill. According to the town of Novi Sad, fewer funds totalling 24 million and 330 thousand dinars were balanced, as instead of 41 primary schools, as indicated in the table, teaching is done in 48 facilities in the town of Novi Sad. In secondary schools, it takes 28 facilities instead of 14, while social care has 65 facilities, and the number of children covered by childcare is 17 million and 930 thousand dinars instead of 12 million and 844 thousand dinars. In view of the less balanced resources for the town of Novi Sad, both based on the basic criteria of the Law on Local Self-Government, on the one hand, and analysing the needs of the town of Novi Sad in this year, with only the existing rights of users and with the application of parameters for this year, on the other hand, it is necessary for the town of Novi Sad to provide an annual volume of spending of 689 million and 660 thousand dinars. Out of all of the above, the Serbian Unity Party will not support this proposal by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and if these amendments are accepted we will vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19392	The word has the People's MP Predrag Mijailovic - Lune, followed by the MP Aleksandar Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19393	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, today we have before us a draft law on the volume of funds and the participation of municipalities and cities in the income tax and sales tax for 2002. This law is very important because it primarily concerns all citizens of the Serbian country from north to south. To discuss this law, according to Finance Minister Djelic, it is necessary to refer briefly to the Law on Local Self-Government. The local law is a reform law, and only through the Law on Local Self-Government can decentralisation occur. I can say that Articles 18 and 18 of the other members that follow in the Law on Local Self-Government are entitled to decentralisation and municipalities are given great powers, but when we come to members where we fund these powers we have another phenomenon called centralised. Gentlemen Members of the People, we all know that without financial support, there is no authority, no life. The one who has finances also has power, and therefore, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will ask you one thing: is it okay in that previous law that we have an irregularity of citizens, that the sales tax for municipalities is 8%, for cities 10%, and for the city of Belgrade is 15%. In advance, to fence myself and say that I am not an opponent that Belgrade has won 15%, it needs to get more, but I am against the fact that the Uzice and other cities across Serbia are getting a higher percentage. Gentlemen, is there any economist here who will come out and say that this is not fair, because in the city of Belgrade there is a higher concentration of people, a higher turnover of capital and more traffic, a higher sales tax. That's why, gentlemen, first we have an inequality in that part. Furthermore, the new proposal for a law on the volume of funds and the participation of municipalities and cities in the income tax and sales tax in 2002 continues the same practice. Gentlemen, someone will say you're a local patriot. I'm from the Uzic and the pleasure neighborhood, and that's why I know the problems there best, and that's why I'm going to discuss how the Užice has passed with this law. The pleasure with this and the previous law has gone very badly. It has received the smallest funding, and I will ask the Minister or the Government how they think the Uzicians are funding their theatre, which is one of the best theatres in Serbia and no one can deny it. I'm asking you how, let's just say, the Ubiquitouss are going to finance their culture, whether they have the right to enjoy their own money to have one such cultural institution as theater. Then the Uzics have a scientific research centre and does this research centre in Uzic need it? It is, because only this research centre knows the problems and can tomorrow give the program and the development of the pleasure area and the pleasure itself. I ask you, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is it necessary for Užica to have top athletes such as Unity, such as Olivera Jeftic, and from what money can this be financed from? Is that what it takes to enjoy and whether the Ubiquis have the right to relax with top athletes or not? Furthermore, Uzice is the town, perhaps the only one in Serbia with so many inhabitants, and there is neither open nor closed pool. They have the right to their own money to build an open or closed pool for youth. How the pleasure municipality will be able to finance primary and secondary education, since the dissociation of the pleasure municipality is very high. Is there a right to enjoy the municipality to make untegorized roads for remote areas and villages? There is and there should be. All these questions, gentlemen of the People's Parliament and the Lord of the Government, which were asked in Užica, were to be spoken and answered 20 days ago by ministers who were there. 20 days ago, they said it would be all right, Uzice is the country's top priority city in Serbia, and when we need to get the money, there's nothing. The pleasures know it anyway, and they remember it. Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we must fight decentralisation in this way and therefore the Democratic Party of Serbia has tabled an amendment to Article 4. We hope that this amendment will be adopted, that 60% will remain in favour of local self-government and the rest will be given to the Republic. I hope the minister no longer tries to make experiments, least of all, over the Uzicans.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19394	The People's Messenger Aleksandar Vukic has the word, and after him, the MP Milos Lukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19395	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the previous speaker, Mr. Mijailovic, I would like to advise since Uzicanka is the chairman of this Parliament to address her for more help. As much as she's recited Serbian radicals, let the money put into Užice and half the problem will be solved. (President: Theme. ) Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group will not vote in favour of this bill. It's not about any reform law, no miraculous and new achievement of a genius group of experts. I guess when they no longer know what to say about the interest of certain people in the government of Serbia and the government of Yugoslavia, as well as some people who help them in this job, they say they are experts. I hope this expert didn't go to deliver some Serbs to the UN tribunal, I suppose the Assembly would be incomparably more important to him. Today in Serbia, when it comes to the Law on Local Self-Government and the participation of cities and municipalities in profit and sales tax, I must say that we in the SRS have a completely different approach from all other parliamentary groups in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. In fact, we regardless of the environments we come from, and we all come from different backgrounds because we have seen that all the districts in Serbia are in some way represented, we will not talk about how the percentage of the participation is denied Užice, or the deprived Kragujevac, or the deprived Belgrade I come from, in which I was born, or Novi Sad, or any other city. The whole Serbian people, all of Serbia, were denied, and it was incomparably more important for us today, as the first point when it came to laws under emergency procedure, to adopt some legal measures that we would regulate and change the macroeconomic situation in Serbia so that Serbian citizens could survive, so that they could provide themselves with a naked existence. In line with this, I am obliged to point out huge problems with farm pensions and what is happening in the Tamnavian-Machvanian region, since I was in Bogatic and I promised the citizens the other night that I would say it from the Assembly's pay phone, given that many lied to the state media saying that in this dirty business she participated in the SRS. It's not. The law was passed here, it is true, in 1996, but with the sharpest opposition from the SRS, which required that such a type of insurance should in no case be mandatory. Not to talk about rail traffic and the tortures of railway workers who can't hear a single word from political parties who disagree with the regime's parties, but the regime doesn't think about the problems being solved, but it's going to tell us that the reform law is going to give Belgrade 7.5%, Užica 4.7%, and Crna Trava 90% of the participation in the sales tax and these five additional taxes they're going to meet themselves, which they've got, so I'm curious about what it's going to get from the winnings of games on happiness and income from insurance. It would be interesting for that economic genius to come out and explain to us how and how it will work. It is said here that the general balance of public income and public expenditure has been established that the financing of jobs and the functions of municipalities and cities requires 45.3 billion dinars and that, of course, municipal authorities, municipal public enterprises will be financed. What's interesting is that in several municipalities we have a special way of spending that money. For example, in the municipality of Bajina Basta, I was informed by the citizens of Bajina Basta, Miroslav Neskovic and Zlatan Jovanovic and many others in the region, saying that large financial resources were spent, believed or not, and this is important for Serbian citizens to know about exhumation, i.e. the exhumation of the alleged Shiptarian corpses from the area of Peru. This is funded by the Bayin Garden Community Assembly, believe it or not, so the question is whose interest it is, who asked for it, who ordered it, and how someone knows from the bones of the skull, the bones of the arms and the bones of the legs that it is in the case of Shiptar, whose name is Selim Seljimi, and in due time the competent resolution minister told us that they established it on health books and ID cards. You can think, no sign of shoes, no trace of clothing left on people, you see only bones, but the rest of their entire health books and ID cards, which say Selim Seljimi, and it still says civilians down there. (President: Please return to the agenda topic. I'm talking about the subject, but you should have listened to me very carefully. I was talking about how money is spent, how municipal bureaucracy manages it. The SRS parliamentary group believes that at this point, if we are already talking about such fiscal laws, there has to be a debate on what the Witness weekly and many other papers say. But what I would like to say to the representatives of the majority -- and given the fact that they did so today by refusing against the Constitution to put a vote of no confidence on the agenda to the government of the Republic of Serbia, which is trying in the most brutal way to introduce a dictatorship into our country, to show that you must not think otherwise, that there must be no opposition -- must be certain that we will know that we will fight back, that we will very quickly and very much before they expect to force them into an extraordinary election, and the people themselves will change because of all this that we have been talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19396	The word has a folk MP Milos Lukic, followed by MP Jovan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19397	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, when it comes to the proposal for a law on the volume of funds and the participation of municipalities and cities in the income tax and sales tax in 2002, we in the Soviet Union have seen that this proposal carries in itself certain indifference and anti-registration. The first question is whether a law is needed to regulate this matter at all or whether it could have been done as part of the budget and debate over the Republic of Serbia's budget. The aim of passing this law is to balance the volume of public expenditure. It's just a goal. However, this law actually brings conflict and dissatisfaction. The conflict between developed and undeveloped, between those who feel threatened and others, and the fact is that everyone here thinks they're threatened and everyone thinks their interests are injured. As for the rest of us in the Soviet Union, we believe that more needs to be taken into account about economic reforms and to enable economic development, and only then to talk about the redistribution of the earned. We have several examples from the interior where practically the economy has stopped completely. For example, in the municipality of Svilajnac almost no company works, so we wonder what will happen when the time comes for the sales tax and income tax to be distributed and returned to this municipality. Apparently, there's very little to go back to and what to share. We also have an example of the Pracin municipality that has a cement store and here is projected to be a very small percentage, as well as other cities that have cements, and the fact that now the sales tax, on cement, is calculated at the rate that is in force in the country of that cement shop buyer. To point out that it's 5%, it means that four times less income should have been planned from a cement tax. We have an even more drastic example, which is an example of the city of Bora, which was recently visited by a delegation of the Serbian government, where the most illogical is said, that the citizens of Bora should deal with the growing of peanuts, make their feet for chairs and the like. However, there is another side to that truth, there is knowledge that scientific institutions from all over the world have examined the possibilities of pine mines and that it is not exactly true what the prime minister said that the pine mine should be closed and that the smelter should be closed. There are indications that at least 50 more years will be able to exploit ore in pine mines. So these are the cities most affected by this law. There is also a lack of logic, which is how the city of Pristina and the municipalities of Kosovo and Metohija will act, they are treated by this law, but it is not explained at all how to charge sales taxes and return these funds. It is clear that the state of Serbia does not have a minimum ingenuity in Cosmet and that it does not participate at all in the collection of these revenues, so that this member is practically too high in this law, and the explanation does not give any closer explanation. Only the dilemma remains whether it will be done in co-operation with the new authority in Kosovo and Metohija, which we suspect. As proof of what I'm saying, it says in the explanation that the promoter failed to even collect information from Cosmeta about the growth of social income and how much sales tax is planned. An even greater illogicality is that this law is linked to the Law on Local Self-Government, the talk is that local self-government now has much greater powers and that local self-government must be more actively involved in the planning and distribution of these funds. However, we all remember well that the Law on Local Self-Government has been passed and that it is only beginning to apply after the next regular elections. So, the appeal to this law is absolutely out of place. The allocation criteria are also not sufficiently worked out, because we have a big dilemma when it comes to recovering more funds, or those funds above planned. Obviously, the desire of all municipalities is to somehow return the surplus funds to municipalities from where it was collected. We also have one illogicality when it is said that the criterion for the distribution of funds to local self-government is the number of inhabitants. We have frequent cases of municipalities, such as the Despotovac, Ivanovica, etc., which are displaced, which affect huge territory, and have a small number of inhabitants. It is obvious that the relative costs of local self-government are higher and could not be the only criterion for the number of inhabitants. Solidarity is mentioned, and I think that will that has been made for this speaker can be very difficult in practice. I think there will be a lot of problems, that those who are threatened will remain at risk and will not feel the great effects of that solidarity spoken of here. It is also mentioned several times for this speaker, it does not see the development concept of this law, it does not see a desire to favour certain municipalities, which have a small number of inhabitants, which can offer certain perspectives for moving into these municipalities. In the end, we from the SSJ have noticed that there are very big problems in the field regarding sales tax, and there are very big complaints from those people who are operating on the charge of sales taxes. Much remains out of the control domain of the state, so we believe that it would be, and yet also, related to this regulation, that the tax on sales on as many products as possible, if not all products, would be done immediately after production, that is, in order not to abuse both Kosovo and Metohija as a neighbouring country or as part of our territory, have huge tax spillages on the market, all of which are the money needed by this country and which is needed by local self-government. I think this is a very serious problem and it would allow, with better sales tax and better planning. It is much easier to plan revenues in the production phase than in the transport phase.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19398	The People's MP Jovan Todorovic has the word, followed by MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19399	Mrs. Micic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, simply a man wonders if it makes any sense to speak today on this subject when we do not have a Minister of Finance and Economy present in the debate, Mr. Djelic. Now, some colleagues have told me that he is probably at a session of the Republic government that is just saying, making a regulation that some other citizens of the Republic of Serbia are delivering to The Hague, and thus probably providing additional funds for the realisation of such a financial plan by municipalities throughout Serbia. Of course it would be better if it weren't true, but that's how they informed me. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a document which obviously has the task of confusing us a little bit, to confirm the alleged commitment of the Republic government to decentralised the republican government in favour of local self-government and to provide local self-government with greater income, including rights based on it, for better or greater satisfaction of citizens in these municipalities. Hence, we have absolute amounts of money allocated as additional funds to individual municipalities, and we also have relative amounts, as will the percentages of participation in the total planned sales tax in the area of certain municipalities. According to Mr Djelic, the potential sales tax collected in the area of a particular municipality was one of the key criteria for establishing absolute amounts. In the end, we received one plan, one proposal with which no one is obviously satisfied, nor those who participate in that future sales tax with rates of over 20%, and especially those who participate in that sales tax below 10, and 5%. A game of numbers obviously exists here. I'd point only to a few facts. It was mentioned here by Loznica. As an MP from Loznica, I would like to say the following thing: the total budget of the Municipality of Loznica for 2002 is planned at 276 million dinars. In this, the additional funds of the Republic budget are 44 million. It is not a problem at the level of these funds, as counterpart Ljuba Mucic is right, it might be better if those funds were directed to another side in terms of reviving the economy, in order to increase this tax potential or fiscal capacity, as explained. For example, you have the following situation that Cacak as a city, approximately similar to the size of Loznica, with 122 thousand inhabitants, and Loznica has about 113 thousand, should collect a billion and 36 million sales taxes in 2002. In doing so, the budget of Cačka for 2002 will be around 550 million and the budget of Loznica 266 million. So, by the same criteria in this country, in the Republic government, we created the basis for the local self-government budget to operate. This raises the question of how it will actually be done, if it is fully under the question whether we will achieve a real growth in the social gross product of 4% in 2002, i.e. a nominal growth of 30%, as explained by this law. The fact is that we do not have a growth in production in the first three months and, accordingly, it is not realistic or planned, and in particular expect that at the end of fiscal 2002 we will achieve a real growth of over 4% in order to meet these projected needs. There's been a cut in purchasing power. From here, it is realistic to expect less collection of funds based on sales taxes than is projected here. Gentlemen, 113 000 Loznicans are due to achieve 349 million sales taxes or, according to these rates shown in the material, a total of one fiscal year in the area and the municipality achieves about a billion and 700 million total traffic. When we bring it down to the citizen and to the monthly level, it comes out around only 42 dinars a day that a citizen of Loznica needs to make traffic to collect this 349 million tax in the area of the municipality. There is now a key problem. How can any surplus funds beyond these amounts that are planned to be deployed here, and that all the wolves are fed and all the sheep in number. Now there's a key answer to why we even serve these indicators and percentages. When another municipality that has a relatively higher share in the planned sales tax increases the budget, i.e. the turnover tax by 100 million, it will receive 20 million. Now the question of the motivation of Chačka and all other major cities that bring more -- will be motivated to just work on picking up that sales tax, unless that cake is shared in a way that is objective. The question now raises why the government did not, when discussing the Law on Local Self-Government, accept the proposals of some opposition parties, and the SPS also to supplement and extend the criteria under which any surplus of those funds will be allocated in relation to the additional funds planned in the republican budgets. We do not have enough criteria and can not only be those used here, but it was necessary to make appropriate criteria for each municipality, in order to simply find out how much who actually contributes to increasing the budget, i.e. collecting sales taxes in its area. Which, in fact, local managers in the local self-government are motivated to encourage the state of business and production, unless this fact is that relatively increased participation in sales tax could also result in much of the cakes to meet those needs that are present in all cities across Serbia. Perhaps it would be a key criterion to agree to introduce the following: the municipality, which managed to achieve a greater growth of the social product compared to the planned average in the Republic of Serbia, has the right to obtain a relatively large share of the sales tax from the previous year. That's what we can't agree on, and when it comes to the bill. It's heavy matter, the numbers are here, but it just jumped with criteria on the criteria and we came to the point that no one is actually satisfied, and that the question is, are we going to be able to achieve the municipal budgets as we planned? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19400	The word has been given by MP Petar Jojic, followed by MP Nebojsa Jovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19401	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and in this law there are violations of the Constitution and there is disrespect for federal laws. Namely, in Article 2. The proposal for this law provides that no enforcement procedure can be initiated or implemented. However, there is a big difference when it comes to citizens and when it comes to the state. When it comes to citizens, to collect taxes from them, the state is running all the instruments, has the right and pays by force, through execution. When it comes to the state, no one should touch that leather purse of the state, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In Article 9. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is prescribed that constitutionality and legality are protected by the Constitutional Court. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if we had a Constitutional Court in Serbia, which is being advocated by the SRS, that as soon as possible, and that the sooner they come to life, these laws could never survive in the legal power. In fact, Serbian radicals have advocated the federal government to pass a federal law on enforcement. This law, "The Official Journal" 28 of 2000, in Article 179, we predicted because we fought against a debt lobby that was always protected, and that never the creditors had the right to seek protection or to have it before the state. that only funds for the defence and security of the state and of the natural resources can be excluded from the coercion, ladies and gentlemen. And above the resources of the Republic, over the resources of the municipality and the state can also be carried out by means of an emergency procedure. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, in Article 115. The Constitution of the SRJ is prescribed that republican laws, i.e. The laws of the SRJ members must be in accordance with the Constitution of the SRJ and also with federal laws. However, we have a practice to introduce some new rules in our legislation and, I can say, the rule of law is at low levels and our right today is in a situation of real twilight. That is why the citizens of SRJ, and above all the Republic of Serbia, are not equal before the law and before the Constitution. Therefore, in every law by the majority in this assembly, it is in every way possible to install an instrument that will enable the state to exclusively realise its own resources and to exploit, workers, peasants, farmers and pensioners, so all structures. Serbian radicals are pushing to start respecting the rule of law, which we were about to advocate, especially the DOS when it promised in a pre-election campaign that it would fight in the front row for building a rule of law and raising the rule of law to a higher level. That is why Serbian radicals are asking that you DOS gentlemen stop a practice that is not recorded in this country's history and that is not in line with the provisions of the European Charter of the European Union, as well as with international law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19402	Thank you. The word is by MP Nebojsa Jovic, followed by MP Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19403	Dear People's MPs, Article 99. The Law on Local Self-Government provides for a specific law to determine part of the income tax, part of the sales tax total of the funds allocated to municipalities and cities, which is used to carry out the tasks established by the Constitution and the law. This is sufficient reason for the government of the Republic of Serbia to offer the National Assembly a proposal for a law on the volume of funds and the participation of municipalities and cities in the income tax and sales tax in 2002. The proposal for a law on the volume of funds and the participation of municipalities and cities in the income tax and sales tax in 2002 established a rate of participation in the profit tax of 5% of the achievements in the territory of municipalities and cities, while the rate of participation in sales tax was determined individually for each municipality and for each city. It determines the annual amount of appropriations used to level the volume and expenditure of certain municipalities and cities. According to these criteria, the municipality of Kursumli of profit tax was paid part of the income of 3,739,000 dinars, as well as the sales tax of 27,871,000 dinars, totaling 31,620,527 dinars. In 2001, the percentage of participation in the sales of products and services was 40.3%, and now it is 33.4%, so I would ask why there was a reduction in the percentage of participation. I don't know what has changed so positively in Kursumlia that that rate will decrease by almost 7%. I believe that the rate should have remained at last year's level, as a reduction in the participation rate in 2002 for a municipality that belongs to the most underdeveloped in Serbia cannot have an excuse, thus calling into question the level of sales tax as the original income, which should belong to the municipality. Now I would like to comment on some of the funds allocated to municipalities under the additional criteria. According to the additional criteria, the municipality of Kursumli was allocated insufficiently in the amount of 15,334,000 dinars, according to criteria based on the area of 7,191,000 and the development of 8,142,000 dinars. I cannot accept the fact that the growth of the social product for 2000 is the basis for a calculation based on the criteria of development. There is insufficient information on height, that the criterion should be the level of the original and the allocated funds. There are many other criteria and reasons for the allocation of additional funds, such as environmental status. There is a 102km border with Kosovo and a Serb and Montenegrin population lives in the area. They should have a different status in the distribution of income and resources. The funds would be used for certain purposes in this area, and we can do this by building a road network, waternets, power grids. In the Municipality of Kursumli, believe me, there is still a day - today a population that has no electricity. The basis of all this is to build one plant in the village of Merdara, and you should all know where the village of Merdara is, because many agreements and agreements have been signed and returned, not the exchange of Albanians in Kosovo, was made in the village. By building that plant, there would be a population in that village, because believe me, 52 children are up to 12 years old. If we don't, in 10 to 15 years, space between the administrative border of Kosovo and Kurzumlia will remain empty. Perhaps by redistributing additional funds, or by some other criterion, it could be allocated to the Municipality of Kurzumli additional funds. I don't know on which criteria additional funds have been allocated, because the amount of 2,345,000 thousand has been allocated to cities. I ask the question - what remains of the municipalities, do municipal problems exist in municipalities, as a reason for the allocation of additional funds? I would like to comment on Article 4. The law, which speaks of what will happen to the funds, when the payment of revenue is made in accordance with the dynamics established by the general public income balance and public expenditure for 2002. It provides for exceptional municipalities and cities on whose territory to ensure that sales tax and profit taxes are charged in excess of the amount, as set out in Article 2, increased prices by a rate of growth to slightly above the projected for 2002, are part of the funds achieved, and that is to the extent that the relevant rates of participation in the sales tax are established, as provided for in this draft law. I find this principle unfair to the larger municipalities and cities, with a lower participation rate, and that it detimulatively affects local self-government, all in order to achieve a fairer distribution. We offer a solution by which municipalities and cities belong 50% of the resources achieved above the determined volume, and we will defend and discuss this when the debate is in particular. I also believe that Article 5 of the proposed law should suffer changes. In this respect, Article 5 offers the possibility that, if the revenue provided for in Article 3 of this Act does not reach the intended amount, the municipality or the city, funds shall be provided from the budget of the Republic in proportion to the amount of the budget of the Republic. I think that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, on the proposal of the Minister of Finance and Economy Affairs, needs a special solution to the quarterly municipalities and cities, which, with a percentage of participation in the 2002 turnover and taxes for products and services, does not reach the scale of the funds, for this period, is to be provided from the budget of the Republic of resources from the amount of revenue foreseen for that period, in proportion to the amount of revenue achieved in the Republic's budget. The proposed solution would result in quarterly harmonisation and equalisation of the tax of all municipalities, in line with the projected volume of budgetary resources. The proposed law is the core, so that municipalities and cities, based on the parameters of this law, prepare their budgets. That is why it is important, especially for the functioning of underdeveloped municipalities, for determining their budget, regardless of Article 98. The Law on Local Self-Government, which gives the Republic the unit of local self-government of public incomes that are made in its territory. In the case of individual revenues, such as income from lending to mobile items, winning from gambling or income from insurance, certain budgets of municipalities will not have income and this will represent only the possibility provided for by the Law on Local Self-Government. That's why I think the proposed law needs to endure changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19404	I thank Mr. Jovic. The word is by MP Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19405	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we, Serbian radicals, have seen the draft law on the volume of funds and the participation of municipalities and cities in the income tax and sales tax in 2002 as already a bad solution offered to this parliament for adoption by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. What is missing from this bill - there are no principles, criteria and attitudes, key to redistributing funds to municipalities and cities. Until today, we've had one bad law, and today, even worse, the bill. Worse because this bill is going towards centralised rather than to decentralisation units of local self-government. Worse because the distribution of funds is based on the lobbying of local powers, it is based on the commitment of the government of the Republic of Serbia, it is based on power in this unnatural regime, which is viewed in the government of the Republic of Serbia. The SRS believes this proposal puts the unit of local self-government at the mercy of the government of the Republic of Serbia. Instead of the announced reforms in the area of local self-government and tax policies, we are getting prescribed bill proposals, as if Minister Djelic had graduated from a Resava school. What about the game between units of local self-government, why not create an ambiance where local self-government units compete, fight, overcome the best conditions of self-government in their local self-government units. The SRS believes that the improvement for all citizens, including units of local self-government, can only be achieved by one legal project that allows a match between units of local self-government, where each unit of local self-government will fight and try to create the best possible conditions, to create an environment that will allow the development of the economy above all, and the development of local self-government units will also be the consequences. What particularly stings is leaving out municipalities from Kosovo and Metohija in Article 2 of this bill. There is an even greater shortage in Article 3 of this bill, where Kosovo and Metohija are scheduled to take place, i.e. by units of local self-government, to collect income tax and sales tax. For example. The city of Pristina will participate with 20.7%, Vučitrn with 56.2, Kosovo Mitrovica with 38.7%, etc. I can't help but ask the government of the Republic of Serbia -- how does it feel to collect taxes on transport and taxes on earnings in Kosovo and Metohija, which are the mechanisms that will make all this real? Perhaps the government of the Republic of Serbia is dealing with Shiptar terrorists and prisoners, which it has released, in return to collect taxes in Kosovo and Metohija. But I think they're mistaken. I must remind the Government of the Republic of Serbia of the regulation it has adopted, which is quite the opposite of what is in this bill. What is in the Serbian Government's regulation (or else it is known that this government is ruling regulations) - it is that it renounces sales tax and goods services that go towards Kosovo and Metohija. This regulation is multiplely dangerous and harmful because, on the one hand, it can be misused, and on the other hand, it allows the financing of occupiers and Cypriot terrorists in Kosovo and Metohija. Serbian radicals believe it is a cynicism to predict that sales tax is being collected in Kosovo Mitrovica.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19406	Mr. Kragovic, please stick to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19407	I don't know who you're listening to, the ones here that talk or me?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19408	It doesn't make sense that you and I, Mr. Kragovic, are in the agenda, but there's certainly no regulation on the agenda, but the law, I ask you to stick to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19409	I repeat, Serbian radicals believe it is a cynicism to predict that sales and services and taxes are collected in Kosovo Mitrovica, while at the same time nothing seems to preserve and maintain the municipality of northern Kosovo Mitrovica. And not only her, but to organize and locate units of local self-government in all Serb enclaves, where Serbs remain to live, and as an example we can take to the headquarters of the Vucitrn Municipality to be in Prilužje, the headquarters of Pristina Municipality in Gracanica, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19410	Thank you, Mr. Kragovic. He has the word National MP Slobodan Tomovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19411	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there are a number of reasons why I don't think that the bill should be adopted without serious amendments to this law. However, I will offer your attention and the public's attention for two, according to my assessment, key reasons. The first reason I find myself in the stimulation of Article 4 where it is said (quote): "The funds achieved above the dynamics identified by the general balance sheet are transferred from the payment accounts of the sales tax on products and services other than funds... "and so on. "in a consolidated account of the vault of the Republic of Serbia". It is further said: "Extremely, municipalities and cities on whose territory the collection of taxes on earnings and sales taxes achieved by applying the rate of participation laid down in Article 3 of this Act, in excess of the amount set out in Article 2 of this Act, increased by the rate of rise of prices to slightly above the projected rate for 2002, belongs to a part of the funds achieved so." Let's make a deal right now. What does this mean? Extraordinary. What's the criterion for that "extremely"? If there is automation, anyone who collects income through these taxes etc. more than he needs, in order to be able, as a local self-government, to carry out trusted tasks, if, therefore, anyone who does so more has the right to do so immediately, I agree with that, but it has to write something like that. If it's exceptional; then you have to say what it means is extraordinary, which is the criterion for it is extraordinary; so that's the first thing. The second thing, if we accept that it is extraordinary, then I think it would be good for this member to bring in such a stimulation that will stimulate local self-government to make bigger revenues based on this and that, as they say, they fill even more of their budgets. Therefore, I would suggest that the scale be regressive, the more so, the more it achieves to remain. So I don't agree with it being the percentage with which he has already, according to Article 3, participated in it, but to have the scale regressive and that the relationship be, whether 50:50 or 60:40, both proposals are good and I wouldn't go further. The second reason is that it applies to Article 3 and Article 6. Namely, I find that Article 3 is incompatible with Article 2. In Article 2, you see, it is true -- the annual volume of funding in 2002 for the budgets of municipalities, which lists municipalities, totaling 141. Article 3 states that this will be achieved from Article 2 and is then said to be achieved by a profit tax achieved on the territory of the municipality, the city, etc. 5%, and then I participate, etc., and now there are municipalities in Kosovo. He can't be here if they're not there. If this was a proposal for those municipalities in Kosovo or an attempt to say in this way that we do not give up Kosovo etc., then this is how it is, I would say, a beautiful touching gesture, but it is not compatible with this and it cannot be accepted. Even if it's not just a cause in compatibility I ask - which are the mechanisms that will be in Vitina, Decians, etc. Ensure, it may be possible in Kosovo Mitrovica, in our part, in Zvecan, in Zubin Potok, in Leposavic, and already in Gjilan it can't go any further. Well, my people, but if you can't do that, then why would it say that? He doesn't think that MPs are, to this extent, inconclusive, that such unserious proposals would even want to think. And, more than that, does anyone think that Mr. Rugova or anyone else from Shiptara will say yes, yes, yes, yes, please, from the sales tax just take it. And then, when it's all over now, we're gonna get it back to the city of Pristina and I don't know who else. How many Serbs in Pristina are left? Who are we gonna give it back to? Who, Steiner, Rugs or I don't know who. Who are we going to bring back to the oven? Who in Prizren? Who in the Decades? You know, I think this kind of proposal, I think, is a little insulting and good taste. Therefore, I personally believe that this proposal should be left out and that the proposal should be corrected in the part where local self-governments are stimulated to pick this up in one more efficient way and that they have something of that. So these are the reasons why I won't vote for this bill in principle and I can't support it until these changes are introduced that I say would give him some other quality, which would help to be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19412	Thank you, Mr. Tomovic. The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic. Mr Nikolic is the last registered Serbian Radical Party MP and has 8 minutes and 30 seconds at his disposal. (Glass: Who's next.) () I apologize, Mr Nikolic, forgive me, after Mr Nikolic's word has been delivered by MP Dragan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19413	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here we have experienced a session of the National Assembly at which the MPs are addressed by Minister Djelic and, in the absence of the possibility of giving fiery political speeches, gives you a bill that, individually, many of you touch and doesn't deserve a round of applause or praise, because it is a law in which you act as if nothing has changed in Serbia. As the bureaucracy led by the previous government, and as the bureaucracy led by the previous MPs, all of this is repeated in this assembly of the National Assembly, in which to God, we should feel that there has been a change. We, the People's MPs of the Serbian Radical Party, have not written a single amendment to this bill, and in order to show, within one of the gubers, that we have one municipality of miles from another, that one city is miles from another city, that we represent the interests of certain municipalities, that we injure the people of other municipalities, that someone rightly tells us - if one is given another 50 million a year, to whom you have taken off. It's very difficult for us to discuss this bill. The Minister of Finance, with the help of bureaucracy, wrote down figures that would provide municipalities for the financing of trusted businesses, then, when he first found out how much about 5% of the salaries tax remains to be converted into percentages that are so misleading that you can write an amendment to someone that instead of 23% has 35% and that you don't know what you got and what you achieved. But one thing's for sure. If there is honesty in you - and only one speaker today has shown this amount of honesty - local self-government, by changing power, has received nothing. She didn't get it, in the sense that she could now have her own income and have her incomes at her disposal. Remember, while you were in opposition one of the main weapons, perhaps also the main one, which you fought against the government was centralised, Belgrade. The municipalities reduced to the level of local communities do not decide anything, have no income, are all poured into Belgrade, and then those in Belgrade who are nice to them and where the Socialists are in power, they say, are giving funds, and the municipalities where the coalition "joint" is in power, and the joint free cities -- there is nothing, because the government wants local authorities there to lose the elections as soon as possible and with the greatest defeat, so that whoever is in power in the Republic and to power in a municipality where it is not currently in power. And what's changed now? Honestly, is there any more dinars for local self-government that she can afford, which she obtained because she has some capable people who can find ways to provide local self-government with more resources and who can schedule those funds so that citizens in local self-government are satisfied with those who do one job that we could call by serving citizens who live in the territory of a municipality. When you've been making so many amendments, (and we don't need to read where the MP who submitted the amendment is from, it's enough just to see what the municipality stands for), that you didn't predict that the prisons in which they are now receive less funding because you let all of the Shiptars out of prison. Why didn't you predict that the municipalities that the trains used to go to now get less money, because you went to war with the railways, with the most faithful workers of this country; with those who were killed by NATO bombs while the trains were taking the tracks. When you care so much about local self-government, which doesn't give people in local self-government the opportunity to at least one percent of their community and make their city tempting for whoever can produce, for whoever can invest, for whoever can trade. You remember, of course, many of you don't remember anything, because their first internship was written in a booklet here in the National Assembly, but remember you're serious people, where the Belgrades in the '70s registered their private companies. In Indjija, Old Paz, even our carriers in Slovenia registered their companies. This is where he broke the castles, here cost the Republic of Serbia, and Slovenia collected incomes from taxes. Why do you think that was? Why would a Belgrademan go to Old Paz, go to India to register his own company, unless he was more comfortable there. For what part more favourable? For that part that is not equal in the territory of the entire Republic, that part of which is decided by local self-government. Now there are no such options, and now it doesn't matter what city he's in, and it doesn't matter who's in that city in power. A figure is written which local self-government will get to do its jobs and if it does not achieve it will be added from the budget, if any, and if it achieves an surplus when it refuses how many prices have gone beyond planned it can participate in what it has achieved more, but in the percentage of which it participates in the sales tax achieved on its territory anyway. It's all already been seen. Nothing has changed in local self-government by changing power. Even the minister's relationship because the Bureau's relationship is exactly the same, and the minister's asking himself for bigger topics, write off debts, travel around the world, and this doesn't matter to him, this is a small matter to him, and if you hadn't had a fight with writing amendments, he wouldn't have come out for this pay phone to reprove you for it. I listened carefully, unlike many of you, and I realized that you DOS MPs were rebuked by the minister because you wrote amendments to the bill that must appear, anyway, as the minister imagined it and because none of you who asked for another 10 million for your municipality dared to tell which municipality to take down those 10 million, to name the municipality and to state the reason, to say that the municipality has enough funds. There are no more funds, and look at just what the streets of cities and municipalities look like, and even in the largest cities. Is there any street where a man can drive a car at another speed, another degree of transmission, and go over five or ten meters without having to stop and brake. As far as we're concerned, it's clear to us that you're going to have a problem with this. I was the opposition MP whenever this was adopted. I once belonged to and belonged to a coalition that ruled and watched MPs among themselves almost hate each other by trying to secure more income for the municipalities from which they came, and for themselves a greater political influence or at least a pat on the side of the streets and to say, well done, you were the only one who fought for our municipality in the National Assembly. Let go of that, let go of the local self-government, give her some air, free her from the grip. Do not release the discipline of Vojvodina, Kosovo and Metohija, Montenegro. Release the local self-government. It's important that you allow people to work if they're capable, and that you change them if they're not capable, but it hasn't been measured by you for a long time whether someone's capable or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19414	The word has been given by MP Dragan Jovanovic, followed by MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19415	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, I will be brief because your democratic Rules of Procedure has given every member of the Socialist Party a minute and 20 seconds, so that other colleagues can say something. This law is totally crystal clear, as you would say transparently, showing two things. First, there is no "d" in Serbia from decentralisation, from that big story in the election campaign and during the adoption of the Law on Local Self-Government, - decentralisation, decentralisation. The inexorable language of the figures has shown that there is no "d" of it, because decentralisation is not decentralisation of the authority, but decentralisation of the money bag, allowing the taxpayer to decide at some significant percentage on the money he is detaching. When we look at the language of numbers, which are probably careless here, and perhaps deliberately given quite openly, we'll see that what local self-government has is available, if we refuse the original incomes in the non-restrictive part of income, 16 billion. If we reject the 8 billion that Belgrade gets, that's 8 billion, and in the part of the revenue that this law treats, that's 8.6 billion, and if we reject 2.6 billion, that's 6 billion, so 14 billion, and if we put that into co-ordination with the republican budget, the local self-government has about 7% of the funds. As much resources as decentralisation. The second, much more important to me, the thing about the distribution of poverty is, and I have to use a little rougher word, the shameless Belgrade of Serbia. I wonder how Mr. Bogdanovic didn't even blush when he came out for a pay phone and said this law was the most damaged Belgrade, because the language is inexorable. Just a few figures from this law. Out of the total income of funds outside the limit, means sales tax, municipalities have 8%, and the city of Belgrade is 15%, meaning totaling Serbia's 16 billion, and Belgrade takes 7 billion 680 million, close to 8 billion. So 50% of all assets outside the transport tax limit, the highest quality means, takes Belgrade, and 50% of all cities, means Kragujevac, Novi Sad, Nis and 169 municipalities in Serbia. Personally, I might be able to swallow it somehow if it wasn't for the acts concerning this law, which the minister spoke of as a law that allows for equalising spending in cities, which largely satisfies the principle of solidarity. When you look at it, I think every honest man and every MP must tremble. When you look at, of 8.6 billion, the part that is intended for solidarity, Belgrade takes 2.6 billion; when you translate it into the number of Belgrade residents, it takes 1,600 dinars per capita, and those who, according to the minister, are meant to be part of a balance of income, as part of solidarity, get, say, Valjevo 500 dinars per capita, Bolec 900 dinars, Bosilegrad 900 dinars. So, with the criteria that Mr. Pomorijski spoke of very honestly, Belgrade managed to enter into part of the funds intended to iron costs with more than 35 per cent to 40 per cent. So, a classic embezzlement from which someone has to turn red. He spoke with honor and a Messenger of the Moon. We, MPs, represent the citizens of Serbia. I think in our poverty, this kind of distribution of funds is not allowed. If we translate this from the language of absolute figures into a percentage language you can see that Belgrade has 15% of the turnover tax, 5% of the profit tax and 7.5% of the additional turnover; if we exclude the original incomes, it is approaching some ideal worldwide distribution for local self-government, for real decentralisation. So, the only one who has received decentralisation in Belgrade and the right to have its own resources is Belgrade, because citizens have more than 35% of the resources they allocate. In other cities, cities of medium size, Zrenjanin, Subotica, Leskovac, Cačak, where citizens do not have up to 15% of the resources combined with original decision-making revenues. I don't know, I'm just interested in how the city MPs, the presidents of the municipalities that this is all about, will vote for this bill, believe me, I don't get it. I would suggest that the minister withdraw this, in this part of the distribution, I say again -- poverty, make it fairer, at least in part of the funds that are tasked with equating income, or providing solidarity with smaller municipalities. I believe that you also think that Belgrade does not belong to poor municipalities and that it cannot get 1,600 dinars per capita from a part intended for solidarity and that Bosilegrad or Bujanovac or someone gets 1,000, 1,100 dinars per capita. Respecting all arguments that can be said, I think this is inadmissible for the Serbian parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19416	Right on line, MP Nenad Bogdanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19417	That's what the Belgraders applaud. I think when a man comes out to talk about this pay phone, he should at least know what he's talking about. First of all, I don't think you understood Mr. Pomorieko at all - for this part that belongs to Belgrade and belongs to Novi Sad and we'd be very happy to argue that it belongs to us even more. Just slow down, I listened to you carefully, we can lead the dialogue, there's no problem, but I think we better do it outside the assembly pay phone. Belgrade's sales tax fell 7.5%, and last year 15.1% of Belgrade's sales tax fell to Belgrade. Therefore, regardless of what is so reduced and convincingly reduced more than any city in Serbia (there are one or two or three cities), I agreed with it because the budget (and there are always mixed things) consists of various revenues. I claim that we in Belgrade will succeed from what is our obligation to make up for what we have decided from solidarity to go to other municipalities and that is why it is a Belgrade process. Whether it's a Belgrade, it doesn't matter, it's a parole that doesn't make any sense and it's used by people who have no arguments. So, around the arguments -- here with Mr. Pomorieski, I completely agree that those who do well, those who fulfill their obligations and force the state to do what it belongs to, should have the results of it, with what the essence, what the measure is, is the essential question for the jobs you do, for the obligations you have. So neither do I have any reason to blush, and you think hard, figure it out again well, and you'll see that everything you've said isn't really true. So, most of the money, in terms of solidarity, goes to all of Serbia from Belgrade, and I can show you and you can see percentages, calculate figures, they're very clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19418	You don't have the right to a replica. You challenged her. National MP Branislav Pomoriski, please, the right to a replica caused by MP Dragan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19419	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, in order not to interpret me, I will briefly repeat what I said, and that is indeed an inexorable language of numbers, and I will try to be as brief as possible because the matter is quite clear. The point comes down to two things. First, we have unique criteria under this law which is what it is and beyond the law we cannot. We have additional criteria. I've had my remarks, and I'm going to take them to each other. The language of the figures is true that Belgrade has been given a privileged position compared to previous years and that in no case has decentralisation occurred in any part of it. When I say this, I speak for all the municipalities and cities in Serbia, not just in the name of my city and in the name of my province. What's this about? When it comes to unique criteria, it cannot be challenged to say that it is at Novi Sad, (I know exactly the data and here I am reading them now, let someone challenge them), considered when it comes to primary schools 41 facilities; at secondary schools it is 14, and it should have been 28. In children, or related to childcare, 12,844, instead of 17.930. These are the facts and others, which are in the light of this amendment, these are the data which are in the light of my amendment and can be read. When it comes to complementary criteria, there's a lot worse and there's the following -- in these complementary criteria, and first of all, we don't know what these additional criteria are, if they're this social moment that needs to equalize the situation in certain cities, then we're in a situation where Belgrade gets the most. To support this by facts and percentages, I will tell you that by 1999 the relationship between Novi Sad and Belgrade was never worse than 1.5 compared to Belgrade. In 2001, this relationship crossed six index points, or six times, to be designed in 2002. So, in those two years, Belgrade has for the first time received six times more funds than Novi Sad. In addition to the criteria, the thing is even more difficult and this relationship is 7.15:1. What are the criteria by which Belgrade receives in this regard, in relation to the city for which I have the exact data, and I agree with previous speakers that everyone has the right to analyse the data it has. Therefore, it is not incorrigible. Mr. Minister, I'd like to make a proposal, and I don't think it's insecure, and it can be solved through the amendments we've submitted, in such a way as to redistribute these 40% by the additional criteria that we're going to settle in some logical relationship... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... and that the funds that would first and foremost be taken down to the city of Belgrade are allocated to municipalities and cities in Serbia; that you do not get me wrong -- when it comes to decentralisation, not all citizens of Belgrade are privileged. We know how both citizens of Belgrade and citizens of Serbia live. Our problem is that our centralization is related to the political, financial and any other summit that sits in Belgrade, therefore, not the citizens of Belgrade. Just to get... (President: I warn you of time overruns, Mr. Pomorski). ... The decentralisation must also be passed by laws that will bring original income to those who need to solve problems on the ground. Among other things, it is also this law, which is the law on the participation of municipalities and cities. So there are other laws that aren't on the agenda today. That's what I said, and that's my suggestion to get out of this situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19420	The word has been given by MP Rajko Baralic, followed by MP Dragan Tomic. It's the last registered speaker. The total time of the SPS parliamentary group is 7.5 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19421	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the exact ratio of the billions spoken here by Mr Dragan Jovanovic. So 8 for Belgrade, 16 for the rest of Serbia. There's no dispute with that information. As it is quite true that in one year, 9,679 dinars of budget revenue are collected by one resident in Belgrade, there are 4,616 dinars in Cačka, and in Ivanjica it is 2,878 dinars. It is a contribution to the decentralisation of Serbia, which you spoke of in the election campaign. So there's no dispute about it. Also, the percentage by which the republican budget was increased compared to last year is 75%. All other cities and municipalities in Serbia have an increase of 48.7%. There is no question about Serbia's decentralisation. All the money is back in Belgrade. You promised for nothing, and you spoke for nothing. The towns and municipalities of Serbia continue to receive crumbs from the Republika Srpska budget. What does that look like? Today I will be, don't mind me, regional patriot, I won't be a local patriot, because it is my duty because I represent four municipalities in this House on behalf of the SPS. What is collected from the sales tax and remains with municipalities, I will say only some in Serbia, looks about like this: Čačak 4.3, Subotica 4.2, Vranje 7.1, Kikinda 6.4, Kruševac 5.7, Kraljevo 8.9, Pogorjevac 4.5, Novi Sad 6.2, Belgrade 7.5. Whose stepdaughter is Chuck in this story today? Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Cachak and Luciani are municipalities that have lost 15 thousand jobs in NATO aggression in just three days, only two nights. In the budget space, there is no means to stimulate in any way those municipalities and cities that have had these consequences. I am sorry that at the same time there is no single debate on the Republic of Serbia's budget and what is today's agenda. Then we could uniquely tell what's on our hearts. This is how the budget was adopted, and we are talking about the participation of municipalities and cities in sales tax and other revenues that make up the income of municipalities and cities over the course of one year. Also, I would like to say that Article 4 of the proposed law is also extremely problematic for SPS MPs. Many other things in Serbia will depend on this member's solution. There are municipalities, such as Cachak, whose budget-charging dynamics are practically something faster than anticipated. Objectively, we can assume that Cacak will fill his quota in the tenth or possibly eleventh month of 2002. If we adopt what you have suggested, then our township, our municipality, will remain objectively without real income, because the surplus income will go directly to the Republic budget. It's not a correct solution and it doesn't match what was the DOS election platform twenty months ago. You said here that the percentage is the size between local self-government and financial potential. Dear gentlemen, it is true that this is a size, but the principle of solidarity cannot go absolutely and only to the harm of those municipalities and cities that are conditionally better standing than those of others. That's where you have to deal with the measure. It is our obligation to affirm our economic potential and to protect our businesses from the cities we come from. Not everyone can be taken to Chačka just because someone's needs in Belgrade are higher than what they can earn on their own. Dear gentlemen, Serbia's demetropolisation is a process that must finally begin. You promised to start it. Everything you've done goes towards keeping all the money in Belgrade. I also want to say that there was not a single dinar in the budget for large systems such as the Rzav system, such as Celvo, Barje, Cellia, Gružje. These are regional water systems that serve between 350 and 500,000 people with healthy drinking water. The Rzav regional system, which has invested $117m so far, serves five municipalities from two districts. No single dollar in the budget is intended for this purpose. There is a real danger that if this does not happen in this year and next, the temporary water supply in Ariel will practically be out of use and these five municipalities will be left without sound drinking water. Also, I would like to say that at the time of the hateful socialist government of the Municipality of Cačak, Gornji Milanovac, Arile, Luciani and Požega, five million dollars each year were included in this regional water system. That's true and you can check it out. If something significant is not done, these municipalities and these cities will not be able to maintain the system in technological condition. In the end, I want to say the following thing: the only thing transparent about what is offered here is that the most funds, in percentages and in absolute terms, remain in Belgrade. Serbian citizens have the right to know what level of Belgrade's needs is higher compared to the level of needs of cities and municipalities around Serbia. There are municipalities, such as Gornji Milanovac, which end up at 104km. There are municipalities in Serbia, such as Ivanica, which have Golia, whose tourist potential and capacity deserves special attention to be treated with the budget of the Republic of Serbia. You still think it is possible to organize a life so that in Belgrade, the train ticket costs 10 dinars from Zemun to Rakovica, while all in Serbia are paying at least 40 dinars. That way, life in Serbia can no longer be organised. You must understand that it must come to an end once.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-03-27-0.u19422	This is what the SPS parliamentary group used its time to do. The session of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs will be held tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. in the third floor hall. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002. I would like to inform you that, according to official record today's session, 163 MPs are present, and in order to determine the quorum, I ask the MPs to insert identification cards into the MPs. I figure we have a quorum and we can keep working. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Emilia Krstic, Stevan Lilic, Vlatko Sekulović, Vladimir Garčević, Branislav Ivkovic, Milan Ernjakovic, Dusan Tubic, Petar Misic and Branislav Grubački. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. Also, according to members 83 and 84. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that I invited representatives of the Centre for Free Elections and Democracy, representatives of the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities of Yugoslavia, representatives of the Student Union of Serbia, representatives of the Alliance of Students of Belgrade, students of the Constitutional Law Group at the University of Belgrade and representatives of the National Movement of the Resistance. I welcome our guests. I would like to inform you that in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, a new parliamentary group called the Democratic Opposition of Serbia -- a Democratic Altenativ, composed of six MPs. For the president of the parliamentary group, the National MP of Nada Kolundzija was appointed, and for deputy MP Milos Radivojcevic. Also another announcement - the Technical Service of the National Assembly made sure that the documents, which contain information about the MPs who gave the quorum or voted, were determined and where each MP sat in the hall. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: - Proposal for a law on the scope of funds and the participation of municipalities and cities in the income tax and turnover tax in 2002. Since there are no more statements on the lists of MPs for the word before the opening of the original search, I ask - does one of the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups who have not used this right, want the word? Here's a word from MP Ljubomir Mucic, the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
