ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23420	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I apologize to you for your little delay, I have been asked by the members of the Justice Committee, since they are rapporteurs on the next agenda, to wait for them to finish the session of the Committee. We are continuing the session of the Fifth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, called 9 July 2002. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, there are 137 MPs present today, and I ask you to insert your identification cards into the MPs to determine the quorum. I find that the application of the electronic system has established that we have a quorum and that we can continue to work. I would like to inform you that they are prevented from attending the following MPs: Zaharija Trnavcevic, Jelena Milenkovic-Orlić, Milos Radivojčević, Predrag Stojanović, Kermeci Karolj, Juhas Attil, Aleksandar Stefanović and Dragisa Marinkovic (before noon). I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. Also, according to members 83 and 84. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that I invited representatives of the Centre for Free Elections and Democracy, the National Movement "Resist", the National Democratic Institute, the Association of University Professors and Teachers of Serbia - the Kolubara Section and the representatives of USAID. I welcome the guests present. There is a word from MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the DOS parliamentary group, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23421	Ms. Micic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in accordance with Article 158(2), I would like to propose to Members of the Republic of Parliament to supplement the agenda of the current extraordinary session. The supplement is, and I believe, that you have been informed by means of information, in one part of your work stemmed from the inability of the United States Council of Citizens to respond to their obligations and by forming a survey committee to review all those circumstances and determine the facts relating to the events they have publicly commented on, on the one hand, the President of the SRJ, Mr Vojislav Kostunica and members of his cabinet, and on the other hand, former Chief of Staff of the Yugoslav Army, General Pavkovic and his closest associates. Due to the failure of the Council of Citizens to act on this issue, the Republic Parliament is obliged to offer answers to such important topics and to inform the public of all facts, without prejudged final answers. I think that these are big questions and that, by distancing myself from such an obligation, we would actually send more than a bad message to our public, that our Assembly as an institution is not ready to face all those painful issues, open to the performance of such important and high-ranking state officials. I think it's in line with that and Articles 131 and 156. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the Republic Assembly, as well as everything that has actually come from our one-year work, we have every right to discuss this matter, to form a committee of inquiry, to do effectively and responsibly in this survey committee, which our colleagues in the Federal Assembly have not done, and then to tell the public the truth, no matter what it is. Accordingly, I expect you to support this proposal to amend the agenda and to respect my request, in order to discuss the law in the area of the judiciary after the debate is concluded, the establishment of a survey committee. You are familiar with the proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to look at the situation and determine the fact that there is or no lack of the abuse of the official position of top state officials and the unauthorized conduct of the person in their service. I have proposed the composition of the polling committee, but of course this remains an open issue and I suggest that, after adopting the change of the agenda, we hold consultations with the presidents of the parliamentary groups, so that they can get fully acquainted with the initiative and appoint their representatives of the survey committee. Of course, if parliamentary groups think they deserve more representatives, we can discuss this, but this should not be a debate on the polling committee, but rather just a vote on whether the survey committee will be able to form or not, or whether we will discuss it here in parliament. So, I propose the first change in the agenda, which would actually allow us to discuss the formation of a committee of inquiry after the completion of the joint debate on the laws of the judiciary, I expect tomorrow. By then, we would have agreed on the composition of the survey committee, so that the debate would be comprehensive. I also propose a second amendment to the agenda in accordance with Article 158 and it is actually about amending and supplementing the Law on Local Elections. You know that a month ago we discussed the Law on Local Elections and during this debate we saw a serious failure, which could produce major complications during the election process in three municipalities in southern Serbia. In fact, the law does not specify those electoral actions that must occur if there is a second round of elections. We have received a statement from the Election Commission and therefore I propose that, after the debate on the 8th item of the agenda, we complete the agenda and discuss the Law on Local Self-Government, that is, amendments and additions to that law, in order to establish an electoral procedure in the event of holding the second round of elections. It's a failure. It is unlikely that there will be another round of elections, but if it does, it must be defined by law. And finally, I suggest that the third amendment, or addition of the agenda, also be made in relation to Article 158. - It's a proposal for a safety-information agency bill. The law came to the assembly procedure at the end of last week, and my proposal to the MPs is that in a united debate, parliament discusses the draft law on the organisation and jurisdiction of state authorities to combat organised crime and the proposal for a law on a security-information agency. We can agree on consultations whether we will extend the debate in the principle of these two laws for some time, but I think it would be good to discuss this extraordinary session in such a way as to reform the area of internal affairs through the adoption of the law on the organisation and jurisdiction of the state authorities in countering organised crime and the law on the security-information agency, which reformes the existing security portfolio. These are serious and important initiatives, but I think they will come to an understanding and that Parliament will certainly be ready to discuss these topics with additional effort. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23422	So we have three proposals to supplement the agenda and one proposal to merge the debate. I put to the vote the proposal of the president of the DOS parliamentary group, Mr Cedomir Jovanovic, to be based on Articles 131, 156 and 158. The Rules of Procedure, as the eighth item of the agenda, include the Proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to look at the situation and determine the facts of the existence or absence of the abuse of the official position of top state officials and the unauthorized conduct of the person in their service. For 111 against 10, the abstentions were not voted 32, out of 153 MPs. I agree that the proposal by the president of the DOS parliamentary group is accepted to put the eighth item on the agenda of the Proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly polling committee. I am putting the second motion on the agenda to include the draft law supplementing the Law on Local Elections as the ninth item. For 110, against 10, the abstentions, did not vote 31, out of a total of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal of the president of the DOS parliamentary group to, as the ninth item, be in the agenda of the draft law supplementing the Law on Local Elections. I put the third motion to vote, in accordance with Articles 156 and 158. The Rules of Procedure, on the agenda, ranks the 10th item of the agenda as the draft law on the security-information agency. For 108, against 37, the abstentions, did not vote 7, out of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has made a decision that has adopted the proposal of the president of the DOS Parliamentary Group for inclusion in the agenda of the Bill on the Security and Information Agency. Finally, I put the motion to implement the merger of the 10th and 11th points of the agenda, which is the proposal for a law on the security-information agency and the draft law on the organisation and jurisdiction of the state authorities in countering organised crime. For 109 against 33, the two abstentions, were not voted by eight, of a total of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has reached a decision on the merger of debates on the 10th and 11th points of the agenda - Proposal for a law on the security and information agency and a bill on the organisation and jurisdiction of state authorities on the prevention of organised crime. We're continuing our work on the agenda. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: - Proposal for an Amending and Complementary Law on the Regulation of the Court (joint principled search with 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 of the agenda) A unanimous decision of the National Assembly to bring together the debate on proposals for acts proposed by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, and before the opening of a joint search, I remind you that, pursuant to Article 90, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours. I'm asking MP groups, if they haven't already done that, to hand over the lists of registered speakers. Reporting on the matter of the Rules of Procedure, the chairman of the SPS parliamentary group, MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23423	Dear Presidency, fellow Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 90(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I propose that the total time for discussion at this point in the agenda be 10 hours. Namely, it's about changes and additions to five laws. These are the Law on the Regulation of Courts, the Law on Judges, the Law on Seats and Areas of Courts and Public Prosecutors, the Law on the High Council of Justice, the Law on Public Prosecutors; I think that there is much in these amendments and additions to the proposed laws that has doubtless importance for the work of the judiciary, and it will be important for society in general, and I think that this topic requires that we discuss it twice as much as we intended.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23424	I am putting to the vote the proposal of the chairman of the SPS parliamentary group to extend the total time of the debate on these agenda points to 10 hours. For 37, against 98, the two abstentions, did not vote 13, out of 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal of the chairman of the SPS parliamentary group to extend the time for debate. I am opening a joint principle search on: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts and Areas of Courts, - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts and Public Prosecutors, - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the High Council of Justice, - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Public Prosecutors; and a Single Review on Proposals on Decisions on the termination of functions and selection of holders of judicial functions and such a decision on the termination of the Court's office of judges of general jurisdiction and special courts, with the addition of a proposal for a decision from 8 July 2002 and 15 July 2002, - a proposal for a decision on the termination of the office of public prosecutors, - a proposal for a decision on the election of judges and the President of the Court of Justice of the Court of Justice from 2002 to the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice of Justice, the Court of Justice and the Court of Justice of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice of Justice of the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice of Justice of the Court of the Court of the Court of Justice of the Court of Justice of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of Justice of Justice of the Court of Justice of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of Justice of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of Justice of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of Justice of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of I ask if Mr Vladan Batic would like the word of the Justice Minister's representative? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23425	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, the government of the Republic of Serbia has drafted a bill on amendments and additions to a set of judicial laws that came into force early this year. What reasons motivated the government to approach the motion to amend and supplement judicial laws? In proposing a set of judicial laws adopted, the professional public did not participate at the time when these laws were passed to the National Assembly. Unfortunately, the adopted laws are the result of a political settlement and therefore they are at the expense of the judiciary. These laws are proposed without financial structure, without financial analysis, so given the material inability, they are not in one part enforceable. It is precisely the proposal to amend and supplement these laws that comes from the Society of Judges, as well as from the Association of Prosecutors, meaning from the judicial authorities themselves; they have seen weaknesses and shortcomings in the proposed laws and have therefore initiated their amendment. So, the idea is that the proposed laws be in the spirit of Serbia's justice. I would point only to a few basic and crucial changes and additions: a provision bearing the title - the specific reasons for the resolution - therefore, it is about regulation and normisation of what has been called lustration in the public lately. So, on the elimination from the judiciary of a number of judges, i.e. holders of judicial functions, judges and prosecutors, and above all by judges who did judicial duty, did those tasks that were not worthy of judicial functions, which indicates their unsolicited work: they participated in the end of the election will of citizens, in falsifying the electoral will of Serbian citizens in the elections in 1996 and 2000; they participated in mounted political processes, they used various corrupt affairs; there is much nepotism and all that shows that there is missing that essential qualitative element in order for someone to perform a judicial duty, which is security. In this case, it's about unconsciousness. Furthermore, four appeals courts are formed, instead of one, with departments, as foreseen in the current legal text, thus ensuring greater efficiency and rationality of the judicial function. The start of an appeal and administrative court's work for the next financial year is delayed, since the financial structure of the proposed set of laws when they were passed has not been taken into account whether or not there are financial opportunities for these courts to form and start working normally. This involves large financial resources, which means about 20,000 squares of business space, which is why this is a delay. A set of special members of public prosecutors is being extended from two to four, removing the complaint by the prosecutor's office that the High Council of Justice is more judicial than a judicial body. The Minister of Justice and the Republic and Public Prosecutor becomes members of the extended composition of the High Council of Justice, because we are already members of a narrow system that objectively has greater powers. Who can do more, can do less, and the point of the whole story is to gain the opportunity to decide on budgetary matters, such as proposing salary increases to judges, a judicial supplement and so on, and so on. A conversion of the status of deputy public prosecutors, currently named by the High Council of Justice for a term of 8 years, is being carried out. With these changes, their position will be permanent and will be elected by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, as public prosecutors. Once again, I would like to say that all amendments and additions have been submitted exclusively to the initiative of the people of the judiciary. The government in no way wanted to influence it, it's just a formal proposal, because it can't be the High Council of Justice or anyone else.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23426	Does the president of the Justice and Administration Committee want a word? No, I don't. ) Does the proposal's representative, Mrs Leposava Karamarkovic, want to speak on behalf of the chairman of the High Council of Justice? She's not present. Does the representative of Proposer Sinisa Simic, chairman of the High Council of Justice want a word? He's not there. Do the officials of the committees want the word, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic, president of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23427	Respected Presidency, fellow MPs, gentlemen, since it is a joint debate on the proposal for amending and supplementing five laws: on judges, public prosecutors, court arrangements, the High Council of Justice, the seats and areas of the courts and public prosecutors, allow me to present three basic features of these draft laws on behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group. First, the amendments and additions to the proposed laws, which seem only seven months after these laws were passed, mean the recognition of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the DOS parliamentary group that these laws were not good, i.e. there were errors in their adoption. At the same time, this means the subsequent, indirect recognition of the arguments and a number of amendments, proposed by the Socialist Party of Serbia MPs. To remind you: we then made several amendments to the draft laws; these amendments were rejected in order to appear now, seven months later, as DOS proposals for amending and supplementing the proposed laws; above all, I think of Article 9. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Judges, which deletes Article 65, to prevent the disallowed judge from applying for an election to the court or to a public prosecutor's office after its resolution. The same amendment was proposed on 18 October 2001 by the Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group and was rejected by the assembly majority. Then, members of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Prosecutors equating the position of public prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors -- the solution was proposed by the SPS parliamentary group, also in October last year, but our amendment, due to a lack of understanding, was rejected by the DOS. I must also mention a number of solutions from members of the 10-18th proposal, which have already been submitted by the Socialist Party of Serbia MPs, but have also not been accepted. Secondly, changes are proposed which are cosmetical character, which they can, but also do not have to be, and their adoption of laws will not gain weight, nor will something important happen because of the possible non-acceptance, i.e. change. Here I am referring to the solutions to the introduction of the Supreme Court's adviser, Article 9. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Regulation of Courts, reducing the text in determining the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court or the arrangement of payments, the manner of payment to the holders of judicial and administrative functions in the judiciary. These changes will not in themselves lead to the settlement of the material and economic situation in the judiciary, nor in terms of ensuring better working conditions in courts, nor improving the economic situation of judicial employees; the promised thousands of pay marks cannot be reached, and in the public opinion has already been created that judges and other employees are doing nothing, and they receive great money, which is not true and which is confirmed by the daily protests of judicial employees. The third feature, which is the main one, which actually marks this whole set of laws and marks the essence of DOS and the essence of the proposal for a law on judges, refers to Article 11. specific reasons for the resolution of judges, which is in fact a different name for lustration, for the discipline of judges, the introduction of criteria of moral-political similarities of elected judges and the way that judges, who are not at the will of DOS, their way of thinking and working, are far from the court. Dissolve judicial functions. In the opinion of the SPS parliamentary group, this member of the law is directly contrary to the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia that speak about the content of the judicial function, the continuity of the judge's mandate and the cases in which the judge can be resolved. The bill introduces new criteria on the basis of which the proposing, executive authority, shows that it actually understands the declared principles of the division of power, independence and independence of the judiciary. Article 11. The bill provides for reasons for dispensing judges: participation in cases of end-of-election of citizens, in political and mounted trials, in violations of human rights. All three of these conditions are unacceptable, unfounded, unargumented and cannot withstand a more serious legal debate. These conditions are missing from the proposing only the list of judges to whom the conditions apply and which will be resolved by the law. With the list gone, at least not yet, I will ask several questions on behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group on the first conditions -- the end of the electoral will of citizens. Does this condition apply to judges who, in accordance with the legal provisions and based on the findings presented in election committees and submitted evidence by authorised persons, have found irregularities in the electoral process and ordered a repeat election in a number of polling stations, in the local elections in autumn 1996? As it is known, in the 1996 election dispute story, a special representative of the OSCE, Mr Felipe Gonzales, was involved, who did not question the work of the judges in his report, but rather the need to amend certain members of the Law on Elections, who, in his opinion, were of an extensive character! Is it possible that this condition applies to judges who, in the local elections in the autumn 2000, after the October 5th coup and under the influence of the coup, have, in fact, passed the legislative provisions and without being found in the records, first extended the electoral actions, and then made decisions to repeat the elections in over 120 electoral units into a dozen municipalities, in which the SPS candidates were then defeated, in order for the results to be different in the re-elections - DOS has therefore formed local authority in those municipalities?- I'm sorry. Does this condition apply to the judge of the Pirot Municipal Court, who decided a few weeks ago to re-election for the municipal council board in one of the polling stations and thus questioned the election will of the citizens, because one voter, with the agreement of the electoral committee, voted without an identification document; the Electoral Commission recognised this vote, but not the court that annulled the vote; the results of the elections were the same despite the re-election and won by the SPS candidate?- I'm sorry. Does this condition apply to judges who have annulled the election will of citizens in Kosovo and Metohija in September 2000 or those who took part in the decision that Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija cannot participate in the December 2000 elections? All this can be directly or indirectly undermined by participation in the end of the electoral will of citizens and be subject to selective interpretation, which the legislator obviously will! The other two conditions for resolving judges are also subject to selective interpretation. It would be good to hear what are the political and mounted trials in our country, to hear the names of political convicts! In particular, the third condition can be widely interpreted, which can lead to the resolution of a large number of judges under absolutely suspicious circumstances. That these conditions, in addition to the resolution of unspeakable judges, aim and discipline of insubordination judges, confirm the provisions of the same Article 11. The bill, which stipulates that motions for court resolution can be submitted by July 1st of the following year and another six months longer by the president of the directly higher court. There is also direct pressure on the presidents of the courts here, because if they do not find within the court one or more of the judges for the shooting, then the President of the High Court determines the incompetence of the judges, he is initiating proceedings to resolve the duties not only of the judge, but also of the President of the Court. So, the President of the Court, as a direct elder, can assess that there is no reason to initiate proceedings for the resolution of judges, but that all judges have tried according to the law, but someone else, the President of the High Court, does not think so and is applying criminal measures. The essence of this provision is, therefore, the punishment of others, lest he be punished alone! Therefore, the above examples best confirm the decadence and exclusion of this bill: one judge should be punished, the other should be intimidated, and the judiciary in any case derivated and subordinated to the will of the executive authority. The SPS parliamentary group will not support proposed solutions to the bill, especially those on the lustration of judges, because the adoption of these draft laws will certainly not give us an independent, independent, competent judiciary that will operate on the basis of the Constitution, laws and other general acts, which is the goal to which we all seek as a society. By adopting such laws, we will actually get a frightened, politically colored judiciary, subject to the will of executive authorities and the assembly majority of DOS, which is unacceptable for us, and I believe for the citizens of Serbia as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23428	National MP Vojislav Seselj, president of the SRS parliamentary group, spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23429	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are in a position to hear the Minister of Justice's confession that a package of judicial laws that was passed, about eight or nine months ago, was a matter of political settlement. I don't know if this package of amendments and the addition of court laws is a matter of some new political settlement, but if there's a single sphere of state and social life that can't be a matter of any political settlement, then it's a judicial sphere. Until the end, a consistent, consistent, principle of division must be implemented, especially the principle of judicial independence and the public prosecutor's office. This principle, in our legal order, has not yet been implemented, although the constitution provides for it. When you look at constitutional provisions on judges, on the judiciary, on the public prosecutor's office, you will see that the Constitution leaves no connection between the executive authority and the courts and the public prosecutor's office. So they're absolutely independent of executive power. They can only be subordinated to the National Assembly, subordinated to the choice of its highest bearers, not to any possible interference in what is strictly the jurisdiction of the courts. I am sorry that the Ministry of Justice and the Government have not used these eight months to propose much more thorough amendments and additions to judicial laws, which would consistently implement this principle of independence of the judiciary and the public prosecutor's office. The government and the Justice Ministry are behind their own political interests. They seem to mind a number of judges and public prosecutors, they'd like to get rid of them. The question is immediately raised here, and I will talk about it the next time I have the opportunity to illustrate it with some concrete details, this is about the compromise of the judge-holders: political processes from the past, corruption, non-creation, as well as the end of the electoral will of the citizens! All that the Minister of Justice has listed here is subject to prosecution! The question immediately arises, why has no court trial been conducted on this basis? Some of them start, but they're not finished! For what? What's the problem? Does this indicate that the judiciary is unable to deal with it on its own, or is it being held back by someone in the area of executive power? There's a lot of, uh, too much interference between the executive authorities in the area of justice! I will give you a few examples: 1) When criminal proceedings against the executives of the firm Jumko in Vranja, due to the alleged sale of military uniforms to Albanian terrorists, the court has let suspects defend themselves from freedom - many DOS leaders, and among them Deputy Prime Minister Nebojsa Covic, publicly react and attack courts; the court calls off its decision and remands them! That's inadmissible! It is unimaginable to a free and democratic legal order! 2) We have a case that the court convicted a man who defended me against the Federal Assembly by firing a single bullet into the air when the mob attacked me, at a time when there was no police in the state; only criminals carried out order on the streets, and the police were not at all -- I organised the Security Service in the Serbian Government as Deputy Prime Minister. He, with one bullet high, refused the crowd; he got six months in prison, paroled for two years, and yet the verdict was not delivered to him even though it was delivered two months ago! People who burned down the Federal Assembly, fired weapons at the Federal Customs Administration, the National Bank of Yugoslavia, etc. They haven't been treated in court at all. Then what does that mean?- I'm sorry. They're not a danger to society, are they? Can the congregation burn every time someone wants to warm up?- I'm sorry. That's probably the reason. 3) We have an example of punishment for Dragoljub Milanovic: ten years in prison! It's like he bombed! And if he had ordered the bombing of state television, the question is, would he get ten years? It's a question! The one who ordered Javier Solana comes here as a happily seen guest, and the man who was in office as director... I'm not defending him at all about his role in state television, his programming policy was catastrophic, disgusting, horrible, only Bojana Lekic is worse than he is. But, you know, there was a huge public pressure on the judiciary at the time of the trial; a demonstration that was released to defend himself from freedom; every night a campaign on all television programs! That's not to be done, you're also here in these laws predicting that such pressure should not be put on the courts as long as the proceedings take place. Of course, a court ruling may be the subject of a public assessment, but when it is given, not as long as the proceedings take place -- if it is allowed to defend itself from freedom which defends itself from freedom, if this, if that... Under such a press release, no court can work. 4) I have the case of the Master's building in Zemun, which the SRS has leased for 30 years. There was so much pressure on the court judge of the Fourth District Court, that she was taken somewhere in an unknown direction to write a verdict and ten days was gone in court - and to rule absolutely against all legal norms. What's happened now: he can't come to himself, because the District Court has abolished and returned to retrial...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23430	Mr. Seselj, I warn you to return to the agenda. This is your fifth individual case in the area of justice, you have concrete bills, it's not a free topic of justice.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23431	Look, I'm talking about the shortcomings of these five, six, as far as it's been submitted, five legal projects, about their shortcomings, and I'm explaining my commitment to making more fundamental changes to judicial law ensure the independence of the judicial authority. Without independence, the judicial authority is impossible to achieve a democratic society and to protect the freedoms and rights of man and citizen. In order for that judicial authority to be protected, it must not interfere with its affairs: it must not be the minister of justice to declare the day of the judiciary, it could be the High Council of Justice, the Supreme Court, the Constitutional Court or the National Assembly, by law, but it must not be the minister of justice; it must not be the minister of justice to come in with the cameras and control the judges, whether someone has come to work or not. He has no authority in the Law on Court Orders, nor in the Law on Judges, there is no power of the Minister of Justice. However, there is clear disproportion, contradiction, conflict between the Law on Ministrys, the Law on the Regulation of Courts and the Law on Judges. You had to take care of it. In law, the Department of Justice is appointed as someone above the judicial authority. In Article 5. The Ministry of Justice Act states: "The Ministry of Justice performs the tasks of the state administration relating to the organisation and work of the judicial authorities". It can't be done by the Department of Justice, according to the Constitution. I know, you didn't inherit a good situation, so you're to blame for its deterioration in the independence of the judicial authority! It's been bad before. There have been attempts in the past term to pass a new law on courts - failed. Dragoslav Jankovic, the then minister of justice, submitted the text, which we rejected in consultations preceded by the government's sessions. He didn't even make it to the government's meeting because he didn't provide the principle of judicial independence. I assume Minister Batic found that draft in drawers when he got there, so he can confirm that it was done, but failed. The Department of Justice is responsible for the law enforcement authorities. These infringement authorities are not courts in the right sense of words.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23432	Do you use the next 10 minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23433	I've got another 27 after. That's why I have to sort this out, so I don't accidentally stay untapped for a few minutes. Courts for violations are not courts in the right sense of words. They're executive authorities. As a result, they are in strict jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice, except for the specific procedure. They too cannot be involved by the minister of justice in a concrete procedure. There the judge is also free; he estimates whether the legal norm will apply, in what way, how much sanctions will be imposed and everything else. Furthermore, it says that the justice ministry's jurisdiction concerns criminal law. It's not even worked out how. There's no justice department involved in criminal law. Laws are passed by the congregation. The laws must be respected by all, including the Ministry of Justice. What else could be the justice minister's jurisdiction? A misdemeanor procedure, all right. International legal aid, okay, if it's not the jurisdiction of the federal justice ministry, it's directly to the Republic. Inheritance, skill, execution of sanctions, that's all right. Therefore, the execution of sanctions is a direct jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice, as the execution of sanctions in all legal systems is entrusted to the executive authority, and there is a system where it is entrusted to private individuals. There are private laws, a contract is signed with the state, a privateer is obliged to respect the provisions of the contract and he forms the law. Art, too. A matter of skill, a qualification for art, a register of judicial skills, or an expert in the legal system in general, all of this can be done by the Department of Justice. Professional training of employees in judicial authorities and law enforcement authorities - what does that mean, are they judges or administrators? The minister of justice cannot deal with the professional training of judges, it must be a strict jurisdiction of the judicial authority, but the law enforcement authorities can. What is the worst, choice and status issues of the holders of judicial functions, it remains in the Ministry Act, but has been partially amended by the Law on the Regulation of Courts, the Law on Judges and the Law on the High Council of Justice. These two laws are in direct collegiation. I can't survive both of them in legal traffic. What principle will we apply then? Both are system laws; one is a system law concerning executive authorities, perhaps the highest law concerning executive authorities. There's a government law and a ministry law, but now it's one law, and there's a package of judicial laws. Their ranking in the legal system is identical. This colitision is absolutely unbearable. So you can't involve the minister of justice at all in the choice of judges and the status of judges. He can't even run the judge's register, their personal list, as defined here. It can be conducted by the Supreme Court, not by the Minister of Justice. What's a judge's personal list doing at the Justice Minister's? Then, the provisions on the procedure before the Constitutional Court and the legal action of its decisions should also not be tied to the justice ministry. The Ministry of Justice must not prepare for the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court must prepare for itself, and the legal provision to make that all state authorities must grant it when asking them: professional, legal, personal assistance, etc. So that's the basic flaw. These shortcomings exist in all these laws. I'll give you just a few. The Law on Court Orders speaks of judicial administration and judicial administration. It couldn't get into this law. This law can only speak of the judiciary. The judicial administration is subject exclusively to the judicial authority. The judiciary shall not be subordinated to an extraordinary authority. The Judicial Administration is the management of the executive authority. These are: judicial inspections, prison administrations, etc., all of these are judicial authorities. This is executive power. These include powers, i.e. jurisdiction, affairs that constitute judicial administration, which is incompatible with the principle of judicial independence. I will list some: "The judicial administration includes the implementation of laws and other rules concerning the regulation and work of courts" - it can not be a matter of the Justice Ministry, nor of the judicial administration - "in particular: custody of personal, material, spatial and other conditions for the work of courts"; this can, but it does not belong in this law, but in the Law on Governments, in the Law of Ministrys, where it is about regulating the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice, and not about the regulation of courts. What difference does it make? The state, through state authorities, is obliged to courts to provide space for work, material resources and all that makes the court's technical equipment. Further - "edition and development of the judicial information system", it can remain the jurisdiction of the Justice Ministry, but what will be done in this law on the regulation of courts! There's absolutely no need! But when we look at the Ministry Act, he doesn't have this jurisdiction! Then - "gathering statistical and other data and monitoring of the work of the courts"; it can be the jurisdiction of the Justice Ministry, but where is it in the Ministry Act?- I'm sorry. Why wasn't it put in there? Why is he burdening the Law on Court Order? Why the special laws definitely don't divide the judiciary from the Justice Ministry, but the Justice Ministry is actually inconsistently introduced as a judicial body and referred to as a judicial administration. Furthermore, it is said here that the jobs of this type include "supervision of handling in cases within the prescribed deadlines and handling complaints and performances. This may be a form of mutual control, where the executive authority controls courts, but strictly regarding respect for deadlines. Unfortunately, some other laws have not strictly tied the courts to deadlines, especially with regard to resolution in the second degree, etc. There are major shortcomings, and then the minister of justice would react to complaints, inform the public, initiate initiatives to impose sanctions - why the second-degree verdict was not reached within that time limit, why so much and so much time passed from sentence to delivery, etc.- I'm sorry. There are, therefore, a whole series of questions where executive power can carry out a certain kind of control. But only in this regard - out of personalisation and out of the question of disputes or court proceedings. Furthermore, there is talk of the establishment and resolution of permanent court interpreters. Pure administrative jurisdiction. What does that have to do with the court? A list of authorised court interpreters shall be delivered to the court. They're wanted by executive authority. What would the court be burdened with? What the court would question when the executive authority has far greater possibilities, besides the executive authorities, are all our universities in state property, high school, higher school, high school, high school, etc. "Giveing consent to the rules on the internal organisation and systematization of court posts" -- this can also be a way of involving the executive authority in the control of courts, because as much as all three branches of government are independent, they control each other in an adequate way, but only in terms of systematicisation; the Belgrade District Court can have so many judges and nothing more. "Guarding the judge's personal papers" - it can't be a matter of the Justice Department's jurisdiction! This must not be a matter of his jurisdiction! He can't run the judge's personal records! He's actually running their file! How can he control them more effectively than by keeping a personal record? There's no more effective control... (President: I warn you of an excessive amount of time. )......................................................................................................... Here, I'm done, I'll continue next time... "A jury judge and court staff" -- that should also not be done by the Ministry of Justice. And as for supervision of financial and material operations -- you know, there's a budget inspection. It's got to be the Ministry of Finance. The finance minister must control the proper financial operations of each asset user. It has nothing to do with the Minister of Justice. He can't get involved in this! And it's better not to interfere, not to interfere in the work of courts in the area of legal control, always just the minister of justice -- but, when it comes to financial issues, to be the competent finance ministry through the financial control authorities that do the job routinely.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23434	Are any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, answering for a word? (No) We are continuing a joint principled search according to the application for word. The word has been made by MP Djuro Popovic, the SSJ parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23435	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the People, Mr. Prime Minister Vladana Batic, before any discussion on amendments to the Law on Judges should be assessed why the current law has not been applied so far. Article 52(1) provides that "the judge stops working time when he is 65 years old or 40 years of insurance training"; the Constitution2. The same member is required by the President of the Court to inform the President of the Supreme Court which the judges end in the working age and when. Article 53 in paragraph 1 provides that "the working century cannot be extended" -- due to the age of a large number of judges of the Supreme Court of Serbia, namely seven judges, including Zoran Ivosevic, the vice-president of the Supreme Court, had to be retired on January 1st 2002 on the day of entry into force of the Law. Since the transitional provisions of the Law on Judges do not provide for any exceptions, the question arises as to why the President of the Supreme Court has not applied to our assembly for their resolution. The reason is simple - half of the members of the Great Personal Major decide on the resolution of judges in Serbia. It's all those who meet the conditions for retirement, and they're here to probably finish off the dealings of individual resolutions, of course, for the current power of inadequate judges. In addition, it falls into the eyes that the President of the Supreme Court has established a working relationship with the former judge in the capacity of a consultant who is chief consultant; a man is on the court payroll and has more than 80 years of life. A single number of judges is also paid a fee for a separate life and they live in their places. For further normal work by the Supreme Court of Serbia to be dealt with urgently by those judges, and the Supreme Court president should resign immediately, as he postpones the court's legal work. Dear fellow MPs, all the laws on the judiciary in this assembly have so far been adopted on the DSS proposal. The draft law prepared by the ministry of justice failed, and current changes, seen as reforming, are seen to be proposed by the Serbian government via its Justice Reform Council. How can the executive power reform the judicial authority and through the alterations push the earlier draft?- I'm sorry. It drastically violates the constitutional principle of the division of power! In Article 3. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Judges should be deleted so that the judge can carry out scientific work with compensation; he cannot be a professor at the same time, and the issue of professional activity, participation in seminars, expert advice, writing articles, is regulated by the provision of Article 27(3). The law on judges and the regulation of the Supreme Court. If this member remains, the words "with the consent of the President of the Court" should be deleted and may instead stand "with the notice of the President of the Court". Of course, the proposed solution allows the president to be arbitrary in relation to similar and unspeakable judges! Article 11th Amendment of Title: Specific reasons for resolution - Article 79a provides solutions in full contrast with the basic text of the law. The basic text of the law in front of article 54 states the title - all the reasons for the resolution. Beyond that, which in the language and targeted interpretation of the law cannot be introduced for any particular reason. When it comes to the function of the trial -- the reasons for the resolution in unconsciousness and illegality -- the basic text of the law determines what unconsciousness is and what incompetence is. A new member of 79a cannot be considered unwittingly to perform a judicial duty, with a call for the basic text, by doing judicial power by ending the electoral will of citizens and violating the human rights of citizens. Such behaviours, if they are determined, are not unconscious in terms of the basic text of the law, where the unconsciousness is the delaying of the solution of the case, the entry into the deadlines, but such behaviours are serious crimes; the violation of the law by the judge from the KZ Serbia; the intention of the judge to benefit or harm someone must be determined - if there is no intention then we are in the field of giving the judge's voice in the exercise of the judicial duty, which, under the Constitution, cannot be held accountable. That provision should be deleted from this law because it shrubs, and if lustration is wanted then it should be implemented according to a special law in a large way, where it would be determined who served the former regime, starting with the head of Serbia's Supreme Court. If that provision remains in this law, it must contain the intention of the judge to benefit or harm through the judgment. Otherwise, that would be the end of the court's duty, which I don't suppose is the purpose of these changes. The aim of the amendment is to push through exactly Article 79a and thereby achieve the revenge of the executive government in the form of the Government and the Ministry of Justice for all annulled government decisions, as illegal, on the resolution of judges for violations and three solutions of the Ministry of Justice in relation to the Social Democracy. On June 10, 2002, a second coup was carried out in the Serbian Parliament, under the auspices of the assembly's president, prime minister and minister of justice. This time on impact, it wasn't parliamentary authority, it was judicial. At a meeting with the leaders of Serbia's judiciary and representatives of the courts, closed for journalists and the rest of the public, they issued an order that 50 to 100 judges in Serbia should be resolved through the form of Article 79a. They said they were not interested in the decisions of the general session of the Supreme Court of Serbia, where some judges received a vast majority of their colleagues' votes. The presidents of the courts have been threatened with having to submit motions for resolution against their judges, otherwise they will be resolved by the infamous member of 79a. Such an unscrupulous attack on the judicial authority has been unrecorded in recent history. How long will it take and what are the further moves? For these and other reasons, the Assembly Group of the Soviets opposes the adoption of the proposed act in the form offered. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23436	The following is MP Vojislav Seselj, who is in fact the only one registered from the SRS parliamentary group, so I would just like to remind you of Article 91(3). Rules of Procedure: "The Emissary Group does not have to use the time available, or it does not have to make full use of it."
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23437	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there are special reasons why I am explaining to the full what independence of the judiciary should look like in our legal order. I'm going to end that part now with three more objections to the existing Law on Court Order, and we see that no one's taken care of it. Now was the chance to change that too. First of all, it's about the Rules of Procedure. It is prescribed that the Rules of Procedure be brought by the minister of justice, or by the judiciary, with the agreement of the president of the Supreme Court of Serbia. They are not the minister of justice and the president of the Supreme Court of counterparts, that they are now co-operating and agreeing on a very specific matter. The President of the Supreme Court is a much higher ranking than the justice minister in the division system. The President of the Supreme Court could prescribe a Rules of Procedure on the work of the courts or for each court, the President of the Court individually. Furthermore, Article 71 of the Rules of Procedure has been prescribed to oversee the Ministry of Justice. We now had a situation that the Rules of Procedure had not even been brought, and the minister went with the cameras to court. And even when the Rules of Procedure is brought in, it can't be done like that, because special supervisors are scheduled to do it. The minister is not a supervisor; it is wrong for the overseers to be appointed by the Ministry of Justice. These supervisors must be within the judicial system. This is already an insufferable interference of the executive in court. And the third objection - regulating the judicial guard, was left in the jurisdiction of the minister of justice: to prescribe the uniform of its members, its weapons, official legislation, etc., to prescribe it in detail. That can't be done by the minister of justice. We had a situation in that communist regime where the police were doing everything: and a classical police post, and a judicial watch, and a prison guard, so it was a painful process of separation, because it shouldn't be the same social service of repression, the state's service of repression, in fact, so it's a separate police. But for many years, we had a single judicial and prison guard, and that too began to separate by adopting a new Serbian constitution in 1990, but it is not enough yet. The minister of justice has a prison guard and can still have a security service in his ministry; the two services may be in his jurisdiction. The Court of Justice shall have jurisdiction over the President of the Court, the Court of Justice in general in the jurisdiction of the President of the Supreme Court, and the judicial guards in each court individually in the jurisdiction of the President of that court. The President of the Supreme Court may prescribe general terms, up to details, and only the President of the Court may issue orders to the court. This has to change as soon as possible in the Law on Court Order. All of these laws should: about the regulation of courts, about judges, about the public prosecutor's office, about the High Council of Justice, plus the Law on Lawyerry, to be incorporated into a single legal text that will regulate the judicial branch of power in general. And the law would have to insist on the unity of judicial institutions, to avoid the specialisation of courts, to have a unique judicial system ahead of it: municipal, district, Supreme Court or primary, senior, Supreme Court. Where such dispersion occurs, the judicial authorities are reducing the resistance of the judicial authority in relation to the interference of the executive authority; and we know from experience that lawyers may best know, that it is much harder to come to justice in economic, current trade courts, then, earlier in the courts of joint work, probably now in administrative courts, etc. In all these special courts, in relation to regular courts, the authority of the judicial office is incomparably higher in regular courts. The people have been accustomed to regular courts and judges of regular courts to treat as judges in the right sense of the word; for too long the courts, special courts and judges of special courts have been in a subordinate position, discriminated in a certain way, neglected, and not rarely ridiculed, if we think of former self-government courts. The experience of administrative courts had Bosnia and Herzegovina back in communist times, so it gave up. Much better all this is solved through a unique system of regular courts, with these regular courts having special departments: criminally, for civil litigation, economic disputes, administrative disputes, etc. All of this can be solved through a unique judicial system of regular courts. Even military courts -- democratic countries have long begun to abolish special military courts; military courts there exist only in wartime conditions. Why in peacetime conditions would the members of the armed forces be discriminated against in any way, and we know that the freedom of man and citizen by nature of things is harder to keep before courts where judges and prosecutors and lawyers are regularly unbalanced, perhaps with lawyers there is an exception, sometimes they too had to be officers, than where the judicial authority respects things by nature! It may occur before a military court that the prosecutor is senior to the judge, that the prosecutor is General, Judge Colonel, etc. - It's a problem right now. That's a very serious question. The issue can only be resolved by the formation of a single judicial system, a single system of regular courts. What you've been introducing to the Court of Appeal is only a mess, you've reduced the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court, you've reduced its second-degree jurisdiction above all. According to regular legal medicines, it appears in a second-degree procedure only in administrative disputes. In all other cases, he is not in the ordinary procedure of second-degree jurisdiction. He's deciding on an emergency legal remedy, and it's wrong. The violation of the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court reduces its reputation in the judicial system. As your appeals courts will function, God help you, you are constantly avoiding the application of these legal provisions, and I am telling you that it is not too late, it is better to go back to a unique judicial system; basic, higher, supreme or municipal, county, supreme court, and nothing beyond that, and then take care of good staff policy, in the appointment of judges. Why didn't anyone remember that a judge couldn't be someone who had an average below eight in law school or who had studied for more than five years. It's the best way to ensure quality in courts. Don't tell me someone who's been studying for 10 years can be a good judge or someone who had an average below eight, can't, isn't worth it. Be careful, for years the quality of the study has been ruined, but that average score still means something. The one who's used to finishing law school for six to six years, that's how the verdicts are going to go, and so will court proceedings. It can't. The way I've been through, you'll just see, Mill. A particular problem arises at the top of the judiciary: we have been practicing lately that the President of the Republic Government calls on the President of the Supreme Court. He can never do that. He can't dream of it. Who's the same rank with the Supreme Court president? Only the President of the Republic and the President of the National Assembly. The President of the Republic may call for the consultations of the President of the Constitutional Court, the President of the Supreme Court, the President of the National Assembly, but must be prepared to go to the feet of the President of the National Assembly in the National Assembly and must be prepared to go to the feet of the President of the Constitutional or President of the Supreme Court. They are the highest in three branches of government. The Prime Minister is under the President of the Republic, under the chairman of the National Assembly, under the President of the Supreme Court and the President of the Constitutional Court. He must not sit with them but couples, and especially must never happen that he gives them orders of what to do, how to do, speed them up, and instrumentize them, or direct them, or anything like that, what he does! It's just inadmissible! A particular problem also exists between the Supreme Court and the Constitutional Court. What I'm about to say would require a change in the Constitution and the formation of a single Supreme Court - the Constitutional Court does not exist in all systems. He's not here in America, and what's the problem with the Constitutional Court? Most often in practice, the personnel problem arises. We're not used to choosing the best lawyers with huge court experience for the Constitutional Court. With us, we have always been visited by the Constitutional Court by servile politicians, starting with Blaža Jovanovic, who Tito literally knew nothing to do, so he set him up to be the president of the Constitutional Court of Yugoslavia for a decade and more when the institution of the constitutional judiciary was introduced. The Constitutional Court does not have to exist: by the nature of things, what is the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court may be the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court, by the fact that there would be a Supreme Court department for constitutional matters, to challenge general legal acts from the aspect of their consent with the Constitution; or sublegal general legal acts from the aspect of their consent to the laws. This can all be done by the Supreme Court. What would that accomplish? It would be achieved that the quality of the judges in the Constitutional Affairs Department of the Supreme Court corresponds to the quality of all other departments of the Supreme Court, if it did not happen to you, someone would fail in the elections, so let's go to the Constitutional Court. Someone doesn't even have a law school, let's go to the Constitutional Court. When you look at the staff structure of the Supreme Court and the Constitutional Court, although these are two but pairs of authorities of the Supreme Judicial Authority, a huge difference in human resources, in professional training, immediately falls into the eyes. A Supreme Court that would also have the jurisdiction to assess the compliance of general legal acts with the Constitution would have far more favourablely achieved the work. I am appalled that no one in the current government remembered that judges and courts were strictly divided in relation to public prosecutors and prosecutors. It's unbearable for public prosecutors to be in court buildings, it's unbearable. As unbearable as it is that you here have foreseen by law that a representative of the public prosecutor, and a representative of the Bar Association, will be a member of the High Council of Justice; and that is unbearable. First, members of that High Council of Justice could only be Supreme Court judges. Therefore, since the Supreme Court would have more jurisdiction, there would be a lot more Supreme Court judges and the smartest solution would be that at the general session of all Supreme Court judges, a secret vote would elect that body called the High Council of Justice; and here, judges of the Supreme Court who enjoy the highest respect and the highest trust of their colleagues would be elected. No one else has any basis in the system of strict division of power to be in the High Council of Justice: neither the Republic Public Prosecutor nor the Attorney General and the Minister of Justice. Then make a galamatias. Why would a public prosecutor participate in the election of judges, why would the minister of justice participate in the election of judges and the election of judges to the National Assembly, why would a representative of the Bar Association take part in this? What should be the status of public prosecutors and their deputies in the palaces of justice, or in courts? Same as the lawyer. If lawyers have their own room where they come in and take off their coats, leave their purse, sit down at the table, prepare themselves, and so do the public prosecutors. We in the courts have the practice of the prosecutor entering the same door with the judge, and the lawyer entering the defendant, the audience, the press, etc. He can't do that. You had to think about abolishing the defendant's bench. In criminal proceedings, litigation principles must be applied to a more significant extent - until the verdict of the court and the accused is given equal treatment with the public prosecutor! That's what I'm telling you as a man with a huge accumulated experience in practice. It's not hard for me, ever, to achieve in practice that my prosecutor is subordinated to me, because such a staff policy seems to be led in the field of the prosecution, to teach the prosecutor every time and never dares to enter the controversy with me. However, in which I made a great contribution and published the fat books - you, Batić, the one who loves to read the fat books, are the one who makes fun of the thin books. It's something that's unbearable. You see, in the legal theory, there were misunderstandings in many cases, debates, studies, in a lot of monographs whether a public prosecutor by nature things even belong to a judicial authority or belong to an executive authority! It is much more common that it belongs to the judicial authority, but it must be strictly separate from the courts and judges, it must be independent of the executive authority and perhaps some controls could be more stringent than the Justice Ministry, but no one must interfere with what its jurisdiction is. We have cases with us that the DA doesn't have any independence. The D.A.'s only waiting for the police to bring him something! Where's the authority, the firm authority? What's going on here is not enough for a public prosecutor to order the police and the police to be sanctioned if they don't! Every time a public prosecutor orders something, the chief of police is thinking about whether to please him or not. That's what you lawyers know better in cases like that. In fact, we've got all the investigations on the sidelines of the police. The D.A. isn't running an investigation in the right sense of the word. Only when he gets information from the police; and then he overwrites it, usually he literally overwrites and goes to court. Look what else happened. The federal Code of Criminal Procedure liberalised the status of the suspect and reduced the time limit within which the police can retain it. The police have far fewer opportunities to perform some of the investigations in the pre-crisis procedure. Everything has to be done in the field of official investigation, but then there is no possibility -- then the police take the burden off themselves and are rarely at all interested in the outcome, but after a surprise when it goes down in court, because there was not enough evidence. There have been other things happening to us, which are very bad. The federal Code of Criminal Procedure has been amended. Under that law, there is a limited period of detention and when it begins, and so far we have had a restriction on detention unless the main process begins, unless the indictment is brought up, it was six months, and it could have been another six months. However, when charges are filed and the main debate begins, a man in prison could remain for 10 years. It's now limited to two years. You passed that law in the Federal Assembly, it was brought to your initiative, and when the courts began to apply it, you attacked the courts. The courts had to apply and let the worst criminals out of prison, the worst killers, if that's what the law says. Then why did you attack the courts? What did you not think about when you passed the law? Maybe he needed a little more time. We have cases of incompatibility of the judge's office by performing some other social activities. For example: I have the advertising prospectus for the Faculty of Business Law, which has not yet met all the conditions for registration and formally does not exist, where among the names of professors there is the name Zoran Ivosevic, the Supreme Court judge. Can't a Supreme Court judge be a professor under any circumstances, not at a state university, let alone a private one. There's no question of whether he's receiving a fee or not, I'm not interested in it at all, he can't. There, among the professors, the name of the minister of enlightenment Gaš Knezevic -- he can't do that either; how can the minister of education be hired to teach at a private university. (Nobojsa Miletic: It is not official yet. It is official, the prospectus is already in traffic and I can bring it to you this afternoon to see it; it is the official prospectus of that university. He has not met all the legal requirements for starting work, and has already started working and publishes ads in the paper for enrolment of students, which is also a problem of his kind. That shouldn't be tolerated. We've had cases of public prosecutors interfering in the political sphere, acting on the orders of the executive authority, paying much more attention to the protection of honor and respect of high-ranking state officials than the protection of fundamental social values, and then getting entangled as a chicken in the house. I've had experience with a number of such procedures, they think they'll scare me, and I can't wait to get involved -- then for a year or two, it's been stalling, nobody's responding, there's an investigation going on, so there's an indictment going on; so back to the extra investigation, so it's going on and on and on! It's humiliating the public prosecutor's status. A public prosecutor must be incomparable in assessing whether something should be prosecuted or not, whether the conditions are met or not. As far as law enforcement is concerned, we also have illegal interference between the executive government and politics; much more politics than the executive authorities. Earlier, the communist lawyer was highly politicized. Even the lawyers' chambers had their party organisations, their party secretaries, the exclusion from the Communist Union often meant disabling the work in law enforcement. People were declared ideologically inadequate; I remember the case of Vojko Lukic, a former interior minister, who was replaced in one of Tito's cleanups, and then persecuted by Rajko Danilovic, prevented him from enrolling in the Bar Association and engaged in law enforcement. Today we have cases like this: he was like that and we didn't like him, and now he can't be a lawyer or he can't be a lawyer within that time limit. That's no criterion. There must only be objective criteria, whether convicted or not, and the alleged guilt in a modern legal order must mean nothing. Secondly, it's even convenient for political opponents to go to law school. It'll sharpen your entire justice system. In addition to their expertise, they will also enter the heat, so that they will be helped to expose much more irregularities in the legal system, much more violations of the law, etc. They'll be more concerned about getting things out to the end. In the communist system, the best lawyers were dissidents because they brought themselves into criminal proceedings, especially at the time there were many political procedures. There's something smaller now, but we can see that it's being restored. A lawyer would have to be deprived of this kind of state interference, such as prescribing the obligation of membership in the bar. A lawyer must not be obliged to join a single bar. There's gotta be competition in there too - not in one chamber, he wants to go to another. Lawyers' chambers should be in front of the law on their own, and if there is an obligation to organise in the bar, then a man is opting between several possibilities, to define himself - and not to come to a situation where there is only one bar and then there are often in practice elements of a mob organization within it: a clan is formed that keeps everything under control and many serious lawyers, simply, are formal members, and they do not even think of responding to calls, because they know what the relationship of power is there and they know that the bar is instrumentsized for certain purposes that have nothing to do with the essence of the law. We have often had this in practice and these clans have tried to impose themselves on the Hague tribunal. A whole series of lawyers are attacking the defendant who wants to defend himself. Why? Because there are huge bar fees for lawyers. It's highly unprofessional, it's something that's unbearable! We have here before us and your desire to deprive political opponents of the courts. It's a very bad precedent. Of course, no man is perfect, we're all flesh and blood, any man can sin. The only question is: how to distinguish errors that can be tolerated in principle with a certain criticism, from mistakes that cannot be tolerated and must be sanctioned - only by whether or not a crime is a crime; if the error is a criminal offence, it must be sanctioned as a criminal offence and the consequence of a criminal conviction must be a disabling of judicial work; if a mistake is not a criminal offence it may be a matter of interpretation, it may be a matter of disciplinary sanctions, but within the sphere of the judicial authority, and not of the state authorities outside that sphere. If the judicial authority is to be subordinated to someone, then it can only be a parliament, and certainly not an executive authority, which does not mean that the executive power should be disabled entirely from any influence... (Peace: I warn you of time overruns.) )......................................................................................................... it must be reduced to material technical security only, and in no case shall the conduct of judicial policy, criminal policy or similar policy forms, because courts also lead politics, but a policy which must be deprived and the influence of the executive authority in the same way as the influence of political parties has been deprived.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23438	The word has the People's Messenger Toma Busetic, and the next declared word is the MP Milos Lukic. One brief notice: the Continuing session of the Justice and Administration Committee is at 12.30 p.m. The assembly session will continue to be led by Vice-President Gordana Comic. I invite the presidents of the parliamentary groups at 2.30 p.m. to my office for a meeting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23439	Dear fellow Members of the People, just eight months ago, we passed a set of laws that were announced as reformal, prosperous, which we at that time challenged, and here today, after eight months and the rest of the DOS admits that these laws were neither near reform, nor progressive, nor good. They were the result of political deals between the DSS and the rest of the DOS, as Minister Batic himself admitted. Of course, the worst laws are those laws that are adopted under that principle, the principle of political settlements. This bill of law or this set of laws has a lot of inadequacies and failures. I'm just going to name a few, just in some order. When it comes to the High Council of Justice, it is very discussionable first, only education of the High Council of Justice, and it is particularly unacceptable for us to bypass the Justice Committee when it comes to proposals for judges, prosecutors, the presidents of the courts. The current solution, under which the High Council of Justice proposes deputy public prosecutors, is a good solution, a solution that we have proposed in time, but at that time it was not accepted. The proposal for the minister to be a member of the extended High Council of Justice is a clear signal and the executive's intention to control or at least to influence largely judicial authorities. When it comes to the proposal for a law on judges, it is disputed that Article 1 determines the status of a judge in a court whose jurisdiction in general or a significant part passes to another court. This is kind of an unconstitutional provision, first of all, in relation to the status of the judge's constitutionality. On the other hand, we can say that this provision is imprecise. In this way, according to us, changes will be made quickly, above all in the Supreme Court, because a good part of the Supreme Court judges will go to the administrative court, to the Court of Appeals, and thus there will be a purification of the Supreme Court. It is also disputed that the High Council of Justice can increase up to 20% of the basic salary if the function is performed under special conditions; there, of course, should be specified what are the specific conditions. The non-acceptable provisions of Article 79 that say, "It is considered that the judge in article 79 has been unwittingly doing his duty if he... "from dishonest initiatives, he brutally violated human rights covered by the Constitution, the law and international contracts. "You know, these are in themselves crimes and the reason for the judge's resolution, so these provisions shouldn't stand here. For us, particularly controversial issues related to mounted political processes or better to the lustration, which Minister Batic has been talking about for months. I would remind you that these lustration laws were passed in the countries of Eastern Europe in the early 1990s. What did you want with that bill? It was intended to remove harmful foreign influences, and of course it is thought of the influence of the Soviet Union that had a dominant influence in all these Lager countries. That wasn't with us, so any comparison in that way was a condescending thing. When we talk about the order of courts, the essence of these changes refers to the education of four appeals courts instead of one, with four departments as it has been so far. Personally, I think these solutions that Professor Seselj spoke of are better solutions. It means municipal courts, county and Supreme Court, not these special courts where the appeal court is. It is also unacceptable for the Serbian government to request a postponement of the deadline for the start of the work of the appeals courts and the administrative court! The minister said it was primarily about financial resources. But I don't know if it's just financial resources or anything else. Anyway, there's no greater justification if I'm talking about financial resources, because we know that taxes have been raised, as many as 400 or 500 percent. It was said that these funds would primarily be intended for the start of the work of these new courts. When we talk about the seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors, we are absolutely against being educated or formed by a trade court in Novi Pazar. We consider this to be a pure political settlement, and above all with the members of the DOS in the area; it is primarily a party of Rasim Ljajic. You saw that these political deals with the DSS aren't leading to anything; so this, too, I think a solution has been extorted. If we look at the need to have more of these trade courts -- we could also form a trade court in Jagodina, because all conditions exist for Jagodina as well. We are opposed to extending the jurisdiction of certain trade courts, because they will be lost in efficiency. For example, if the court in Leskovec cannot effectively carry out bankruptcy proceedings in its territory, how will the court in Nis or some similar parallel between the courts in Kragujevac or the King do so. When we talk about the public prosecutor's office, i.e. the law, the conduct of this personal list of each public prosecutor, deputy public prosecutor and public prosecutor is contrary to the Law on Labour in the State Authority and is in the exclusive jurisdiction of Serbia's MUP. On the other hand, this eradication of the word "nationality" I don't know what it's all about, what we're afraid of and what we're afraid of, why that word doesn't stay if we're already going with this personal list. In Article 9, which speaks of the possible award of a public prosecutor and deputy by the High Council of Justice, I think it is unnecessary because salaries are governed by a special law. The best solution for selecting public prosecutors and deputies would be a solution that has been in place recently, which is to go through the Republic Prosecutor, that the Republic Prosecutor also proposes that the Assembly elects other public prosecutors and deputy public prosecutor. In the end, we are not going to vote in favour of this bill, because there is nothing reformal about it. Given that this is an extraordinary session, we believe that there have been far more important and important issues than this issue that has been included today in this extraordinary session of the Assembly. Just one sentence, concerning the motion for a decision on the election of judges, we see here, and I have looked at it in flight -- District Court President Vida Petrovic-Skero is obviously making progress after these statements about Minister Batic, that Minister Batic is not interfering in his business, which is exactly how I understand it. Simply, the President of the District Court is a more essential function than the Supreme Court Judge, because there are 50, maybe more, a little less, around here. It is clear, after all these statements, after her support for the protest of judicial workers, that there is also a lustration for her. Of course, in a nice way, that the citizens or the professional public may not remember.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23440	The word has been given by MP Milos Lukic, followed by MP Joca Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23441	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, by commenting on this set of laws above all, points out that very little time has been given to comment on all this, so we will only comment on a few points in these regulations. First of all, as a general review, I would like to say that we want the final relationship between the Ministry of Justice and the Justice, as a base, to be haromed and brought into order, because we believe that in the public they are very unpopular and unproductive, all of those disputes and conflicts that strike both the Ministry and the judiciary. However, we must be aware that the judiciary is a serious area and a serious pillar of power. In that sense, this little suggestion. As for the amendment and addition of the Law on Court Orders, we believe, especially after what the Minister said, that it takes 20,000 square meters of space for the appeals courts, of course, it takes equipment, staff, etc., to seriously examine whether the appeals courts in this form should remain. I think, given the delayed moment of application of this regulation, there's a possibility of having it reconsidered once more. When it comes to the Law on Judges, we consider this to be excessive in Article 2. - the confidence of objects and this technique that is common, that objects are formed in order etc., and that the larger ones form uniquely, means that there is no termination, no skipping. As for the scientific and professional actions of judges, prosecutors and deputy prosecutors, we consider that necessary. However, perhaps a little relativises this whole notion of what is done with the agreement of the President of the Court. Namely, there are judges who are very experienced, who need to translate their years of practice into certain brochures, into certain instructions, etc. It would be a shame if such an accumulated knowledge and experience were not presented to the public. The question, therefore, is whether such a judge is not likable or not at the will of the President of the Court, it should be a distraction to do something like this. The question of whether or not the teaching work should be considered. As for the salary of the Serbian Supreme Court president and other high-ranking officials in the judiciary, who are tied to the Prime Minister's salary, it may also be an unfavorable structure, given the fact that the Prime Minister is an individual and that he may be able to keep his salary on a lower level for some other reason, so it might be better to have to do with an average salary in the Republic of Serbia or something like that. When it comes to Article 11. Prescribing the law on amendments and additions to the Law on Judges, questions of ending the electoral will of citizens, politically mounted trials, etc. is one question that can be very convenient for dealing with certain judges. On the other hand, it can cause such a situation in the judiciary that many judges feel insecure and do not know whether they will be affected by this regulation or not. Also, the time limit for the application of this regulation is quite long, so we introduce one disturbance, one uncertainty to the judiciary in this way. In particular, I would refer to the Law on Headquarterss and Areas of Courts and Public Prosecutors. As for the Kragujevac Trade Court, the SSJ Group considers, after all the consultations it has carried out, that the Kragujevac Commercial Court should own one department in Jagodina, for several reasons: Jagodina is the head office of the district; the economic, cultural, geographical center, which certainly has many conditions, actually fulfils all the conditions to be the headquarters, at least at this stage, the departments of this Trade Court. We believe that this practice should continue, that trade courts should be further decentralised, given the quality of the personnel we have, on the equipment, etc. In the Kragujevac Commercial Court, about 40% of the cases are from the Jagodin County, so we have a daily situation for prosecutors, defendants, their representatives, etc. They're going hundreds of miles to do the job. I say once again, there's no reason not to do it in Jagodina. As far as Article 4 is concerned, - Trade courts with extended jurisdiction, there is one idea in these trade courts, I was informed earlier that the motion would withdraw this proposal, which is that bankruptcy proceedings are concentrated in four trade courts: in Belgrade, Nis, Kragujevac and Novi Sad. In particular, with this member of the law, we believe that this is extremely irrational, first of all for one reason, which puts judges in other commercial courts in an unequal position compared to judges in these four courts. Namely, there is no single reason to claim that judges in Belgrade, Nis, Kragujevac and Novi Sad are more in writing, better educated, more correct and that they will apply the applicable regulations more correctly. This has particularly caused a reaction among other judges and presidents of trade courts in Serbia. An example of the Kragujevac Trade Court, which is due to handle cases in the areas of the Kings, Novi Pazar and Pristina. This means that this trade court, like the others, would have to be equipped again on the same subject as the appeals courts, new rooms, new personnel and new equipment, and that's all irrational. Also, given the fact that bankruptcy should take place within one reasonable period of a year, two, three days, related to those privatisation deadlines, then we would also have extra space and extra judges and excess equipment concentrated in these places, while trade courts in other places would be so impoverished; less equipped, personnel, technical, etc. Therefore, we believe that both of these members are quite irrational and that they will cost a lot of money to this country. That is why we appeal to the minister, as a proposing, to withdraw this proposal in this part or to modify it or, ultimately, accept the amendments made by the Soviet Union in this regard. As far as the public prosecutor's office is concerned, public prosecutors have positively accepted this proposal to have deputies elected permanently, because they are in some way equating themselves with other judicial holders, so that they can do their job uninterruptedly. Also, one reaction that is likely to be the topic when the 10th or 11th agenda comes, which is a matter of public prosecutors' status, judges and all others compared to special prosecutors, a special council, where a certain dissatisfaction already arises, because these people can do their job honorably and properly, so there will be some discussions, but when it comes to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23442	The word has been made by MP Joca Arsic, after which the word would be declared by MP Milos Todorovic, but the time of the parliamentary group has been used, so that after Joce Arsic the word has a folk MP, Jovan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23443	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, respected by Mrs Comic, the proposed set of laws, a total of five, which were decided by the majority to be unique within all five legislative proposals, do not have much time to discuss, although the proposals were only amended and complemented by the laws already passed, as has been said here earlier, in November of the month or seven - eight months ago, in which we also participated as a parliamentary group, giving certain amendments that were not then accepted. As we can see, some of these amendments have today become an integral part of these amendments and additions, at least when it comes to public prosecutorial functions. What I am particularly concerned about here is that Mr. Minister, in his explanation of these draft laws, pointed out that one of the most significant in this part of the proposed changes and the so-called lustration and his statement that in this way there will be the elimination of those who have sinned, as it is said, of these principles of the above-mentioned lustration. It means ending the electoral will of citizens, mounted processes and participating in human rights violations, that is to say, from dishonest initiatives. I think the term used by Mr. Minister is quite sharp: it is said that those who have made certain work failures, who have done certain crimes in their work, stop the function, will not be able to perform their work, but this qualification - that they will be eliminated, I don't know whether it was intentional or accidental, cause a certain suspicion that this is not about what should be the etymological basis of this word - lustration or - purification or - enlightenment. It's supposed to be an individual act. It must be what will often be used in the faith through the understanding of the spirit - to receive the spirit of God or of enlightenment, but it is an individual act and cannot be a collective act. If it becomes a collective act, by certain principles of violent application, or coercion, then it looks like something else. It's more like a certain inquisition to those with whom we don't share the same opinion, and I'm afraid that by looking for a way out of one brain, which is very often said here, we don't go to what's very dangerous and worse, into individual folly. So I think that we should refrain from such overskilled qualifications, that is, to correctly address situations when someone did something as a mistake for which there is certain material evidence, and not only if the larger one in a court made a decision to interpret the existing law - there were higher lists, there were certain procedural problems in the course of the vote and annulled those elections, so they were once again scheduled, re-sustained, then it was not the end of the electoral will but it was the repetition of the process. It is not known to me that any court council has reached a solution that has won this party or that party, but that it has been reassessed. If that was the case, if the procedure was not respected, then the procedure is conducted; then it is duly determined and there is no choir that the law is misused, that the procedure is misused and that it is not respected what is necessary. As far as I know, one of the examples of this is the announcement where the time was erased; first it took a while, so it changed that it was not up to 16 but that it should be extended to 20; so there was a number of voters in the election of the president and that there was someone, conditionally said, ending the will, or the end of the voter's will is that a temporary council is being introduced and there is not enough reason to do so. Normally, it's all subject to certain criticism. In these laws, I have more objections to the order of the courts. Please, we are proposing here, and this is what my colleague Toma Busetic was talking about, that a certain change be made in the arrangement, or territorial organisation of the courts -- a court in Novi Pazar is expected to be established. I know that a group of MPs requested, as well as counterpart Rajko Baralic, that a trade court be opened in Cačka for the area of Cačka, Ivanjica, Gornji Milanovac and Lucan. These proposed amendments provide for this to be the Department of Trade Court in the Kingdom, without establishing not a department but a trade court in Novi Pazar, for the area of these three municipalities. I don't see any reason why it wouldn't be a department, if it had to, if it had logical needs, if it was more efficient to do it, and where it was going on for a long time, it wasn't a new trade court, it was just a department. Normally, then there are these requirements according to Jagodina, there would probably be Smederevo, Fireman, etc., but it makes no sense for me to make the argument that it is necessary, and it is not here if it is not supported by a certain political settlement. And finally, I would like to comment that this set of amendments and additions laws have been given by the Association of Lawyers, as you, Judges, or other associations, and the earlier proposal has been made by one group of MPs; this is where the DSS is primarily thought of. I don't understand where the Department of Justice is on the basis of the creation of certain draft laws and proposals in this assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23444	The word is made by MP Jovan Todorovic. He's not there. After him, the word has been made by MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23445	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected journalists, counterpart Joca Arsic introduced this story, but in January I submitted a proposal to amend and supplement the law to ensure that Cačak became the seat of the Chamber of Commerce for the municipalities of Cačak, Gornji Milanovac, Ivanica and Luciani. One of the two committees in charge accepted this. He also accepted Mr Cedomir Jovanovic, on behalf of the DOS parliamentary club, at a session when we were trying to put it on the agenda. And once again, when there could have been an extension of the agenda, once again, by the will of the MPs, this item was included in the agenda and we had a promise that this thing would be regulated. However, I want to say a few things, not to slow down anyone's right to try to fight in a particular district for a better position of economy and justice; I do not dispute the law of the New Pazar; I respect the specificities of the region; and I do not dispute the legitimate demands of the MPs to be in Jagodina, but there is a difference. Since the suspension of the Joint Labour Court, the Chamber of Commerce has functioned all the time, which was based in the Kingdom and Chačka. There are technical and personnel conditions there, so all that is necessary for the smooth work of this court, and there is an interest in the economy. There is everything Cačak has on payment and on economic operators, it really belongs to such municipalities in Serbia, and it is also important that Ivanica, which is part of the district (Ivanica is the fourth municipality in Moravika County), is not leaning on the Business Court in Užica, but to form a trade court based in Cačka. In this regard, there is also an initiative of the Bar Association, there is an initiative of all political parties, and I must say - full consent, and here I now hear from Mr. Minister that it will be accepted and thank you, so I will end up not wasting my time with other MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23446	The word has the People's MP Rada Bajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23447	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have before us the text of the law that we had on the agenda only a few months ago. But what happened then? For some compromises, when it came to the Labour Act, these laws were found and adopted by this assembly, only after a few months, on the agenda. So something was achieved at the trade, but it was soon seen that it was wrong and there is again a set of laws before us today that you have offered. We Socialists were in favour of this set of laws, i.e. individual laws, because they provided certain opportunities for courts to work without the pressure of politicians and to avoid interference and retroactive action, especially when it comes to what is now being asked as a question of lustration, the shift of judges who worked or were on election committees. So the previous laws were, however, the kind of protection of judges and the type of protection against political influence on courts and their independence. With these laws, it's practically put under the full authority of politicians, because how else do you interpret the president of a court that doesn't initiate a judge's shift, if anyone has found a grudge for him, and he's being removed himself? So, that judge who's being appointed president of the court, he's gonna have to do exactly what the Justice Minister orders him to do, or someone from the ministry. Therefore, it is unacceptable to introduce lustration, which seems to have been an obsession with Vladan Batic and the Ministry of Justice at the beginning, in order to avenge some of their failures with judges who were working according to the laws that were in force at the time, only because they had to confirm for example. If there were any election failures or violations of the law in the elections, they had to cancel it and re-election. Take an example: if a single ballot is found in the ballot box more than the voters, any party and any representative of the political party object, the objection must be respected, elections in the polling post must be annulled. So if the judge confirmed it and annulled the election in the polling post because there was one extra ticket in the box, that judge should answer today and be removed. Well, none of the judges could influence and end the voter's will; because, in every polling post, and probably you were witnesses, as members of the electoral committees, he was a representative of every political party and without its signature, he couldn't go anywhere for further processing. Therefore, if someone submitted an objection, the judge had to respect the objection, if it was established by the laws that were in force at the time, to annul the elections in individual polling stations, and today it should respond. Or it's said to be involved in a political trial. So where were the political processes in the previous period, where were these political prisoners, to appear today, simply, to say by name and last name who was responsible for their political activity? On the contrary, over the past ten years, everything that has been directed against the then government, or the SPS; and your media and politicians, they have fought every way they can: both the demolition and the demonstration and the screaming, and the intrusion. It's just that no one answered for it. Politicians used the most offensive expressions about the ruling regime, about the president. And if anyone answered - no one. And today let someone try it; first, they will not publish the newspaper and, on the other hand, they will be punished automatically. And third, participation in human rights violations. It's very disputable from the legal point of view who's going to evaluate it, who's responsible and when human rights are violated? It happens, normally, and whether it was a practice -- certainly not, nor was it a warrant for judges to do so. Minister, I won't go to Sloba and complain, it'll probably be time for you to appeal to him, but interestingly, when amendments are submitted by opposition parties, we are, for example, You submitted the amendment (and now you have confirmed it later, you said - Article 9 deletes the position where it is said that no provision of termination of employment is in force) so we then suggested it, but only for the reasons proposed by the SPS, or MPs of the opposition party, it was not accepted. Afterwards, when you saw that it was really a mistake, you later came to your senses and said -- well, yeah, that was good, but we're not going to accept it because the SPS suggested it, but now we're going to accept it. There's a few more of those things about the amendments that we suggested at the time, which you didn't accept, and you've certainly found now that it's really the right provision, and you've respected that. This is another proof that the SPS MPs do not approach materials and do not approach the making of amendments only for the sake of order, but indeed in order to improve any legal project, which will be in the service of citizens, not just to collect political points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23448	The word has a National MP, Slobodan Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23449	The Honorable Presidency, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, it is obvious that because of inter-party bickering, conflict, dissent and many other things, that I do not add, find and come to the situation that, as a National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in a period of one year and not full of one year, we have twice on the agenda of Parliament's session a set of laws on justice. The amendments and additions that are now proposed, in my confidence and confidence of the parliamentary group I represent, the SPS, in addition to what Mr Batic said in his opening remarks, I think it is also a certain pressure from abroad to make changes and additions that are proposed. And one more thing: I think the intention of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, through the Ministry of Justice, to draw attention to the public and citizens of the Republic of Serbia's proposed amendments to the laws on the agenda; to draw attention from certain failures, which the Government of the Republic of Serbia suffers and endures, to draw attention from price increases, weighty life, falling standards and many other things. When it comes to amending and supplementing the Law on Judges (I will say something individually about a few laws), I would like to remind you that in November 2001, therefore, when this law was passed, then the legislator of this law, but also the complete set of laws, DOS, or the Democratic Party of Serbia, which the whole DOS adopted, is then based on something in which there was no place of lustration, which in recent times (that Mr. Minister did not mind, but someone said that), in my opinion is already becoming an obsession with Dr. Vladan Batic, Minister of Justice. Of course, I understand that the lustration he advocates, and otherwise it is also proposed to these amendments and additions, the five-octobar revolutionary measure, which is in Article 11 of the amendment and the addition of the Law on Judges only, is not designed for prosecutors, and by three grounds There are no wings, sir, that's what you have wings in DOS, so you've broken into 18 wings, you're going to have a hard time coming together. [[elevator in the O.R.]] We have one wing and that's right, I'm in it, don't worry. (Emissary Vojislav Seselj, from the place, "Why do you kiss with that other wing?" ) Madam Chairman, ask Mr. Seselj not to throw it away, because if I talk about who he's kissing, it would take a lot more time.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23450	I ask the People's Messengers not to interfere with the speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23451	So, with regard to lustration, three things are foreseen: participation in cases of end-of-election; participation in political and mounted trials; and participation in the violation of human rights guaranteed by the Constitution, the law, the international treaty, and from dishonest initiatives. All of these three conditions are (not only me, many who have spoken before me now and before) unacceptable for a serious and legal debate, if that is the case, because it is impossible to ignore the fact that the courts under the provisions of the laws of that time could not change or end the will of the citizens, but only by legal provisions, as a result of existing irregularities in the election process, impose a repeat of the elections. It is also extremely questionable whether there have been political trials in our country, and if there have been, it is necessary to indicate which political convicts they are, to give their names in order to illustrate these claims. At the same time, the conditions for human rights violations can be interpreted very explicitly, which can lead to the resolution of a large number of judges under extremely suspicious circumstances. In order for the matter to be even blacker or worse, the motion to resolve judges on one of these grounds, as proposed on July 1st 2003, should be submitted by the President of the Court of Justice in which the judge is working and if not - the mandatory submission of the motion for the court's resolution shall be made by the President of a directly higher court. This is obviously a kind of pressure on the performers of administrative functions in the judiciary and this can hypothetically lead to the resolution of all the presidents of Serbia's courts, of course if Minister Batic is not up for it. Also, such a solution is both unconstitutional or, if it is for him, because retroactivity without respecting the fact that unconsciously performing a judicial function on these grounds may eventually happen in the future... It is, of course, proof that this is about political pressure on the judiciary, as well as trying, to, under the assumption that, according to the DOS, judges of use, wills of the DOS regime. Article 3 provides for the possibility to legalise the work of judges outside the judicial office, in addition to compensation, which is potentially very dangerous, given previous experiences when individuals are so-called. NGOs, for example, group 17 plus a lot of influences, and now influences the oppression of an independent judiciary. The existing solution is sufficiently precise and provides protection of independence, independence and respect for judges and courts. Article 9 shall delete Article 65 concerning the disallowation of a court judge to apply for an election in a court or public prosecutor's office, which is an ex post example of the legislator of this legal text, since the same amendment was proposed on 18 October 2001 by the SPS parliamentary group and, of course, rejected by the DOS parliamentary majority. Minister Batic is interested in how much longer I have to speak, I assume the chairman will draw attention to that. When it comes to amending and supplementing the Law on Court Orders, due to too large, I would say political, the DOS's proposing trade in the text proposal predicted that a better solution for the establishment of appeals courts for the areas of Belgrade, Kragujevac, Nis and Novi Sad is better than for the departments of the appeals court to be opened in these cities. For the same reasons, some words that are now changing and correcting these corrections have been left behind. Of course, I must admit that it is acceptable to introduce a Supreme Court adviser, Article 9, as well as to delete the unconstitutional provision concerning the entry of nationality and private data into the contents of the personal list for jurors, etc. In amending and supplementing the Law on Public Prosecutors, I think it is most important to note that only now does the position of public prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors, although an amendment by the SPS parliamentary group was submitted on 18 October 2001, which unfortunately, because of the lack of understanding of the essence of the real problems or because of what we have proposed, was not accepted. The public prosecutor certainly performs his post directly or through a deputy who can take any action for which the public prosecutor is authorised and without any special approval, which has the same position as he. Article 8 introduces the possibility of a public prosecutor's work "with compensation".... "with the consent of the Republic Public Prosecutor", which is the same solution as the Law on Judges. Such a possibility, you must agree, raises the issue of abuse and violations of the reputation of a public prosecutor; for, apart from the rule that a public prosecutor cannot deal with other paid affairs, as well as judges, can become a very easy rule. The decisions set out in Articles 10 and 18 were already submitted by the SPS and its parliamentary group in October 2001. Article 23 of the Decision as well as the Law on Judges: because under the Constitution, jobs and functions must be made available to everyone under the same conditions, so it is impossible that the resolved public prosecutor cannot apply for work in courts or public prosecutors. Given everything I have said and perhaps not said, other MPs have said or we will say through the amendments, and I suppose Minister Batic will accept some, we as a parliamentary group cannot give support, at least in principle debate. I hope I haven't gone too far and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23452	The word has been given by the MP Ljubisa Maravić; he is the last registered speaker in a joint principle debate on the laws of the area of justice.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23453	Dear fellow Members of Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, Mr Minister, we have today a package of legal texts concerning the regulation of rights and obligations in our judiciary. Some of the proposed solutions, according to what we heard, aim to improve the work of judicial authorities in practice, and to correct the observed shortcomings in the field after the recently passed laws. Respecting the justification, from the point of view of the profession, of some of the outstretched solutions in this set of legal texts, I will also have to, as a Serb from Kosovo, point out the alarming situation in our southern province of Kosovo and Metohija, which has been caused by the operation of the Cypriot separatists, by disrespecting Resolution 1244 of the Security Council and by the mild attitude of UNMIK's administration towards everything, and also by the current state of justice in Kosovo and Metohija. Every day, we are increasingly witnessing full disregard for the rights of the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija; basic rights of Serbs are being violated: the right to freedom of movement, the right to a fair trial, the right to learn their own history. On the other hand, we have the constant involvement of various committees for the protection of rights, across our country, who have not spoken recently as mushrooms after the rain, all of them talk horrendously about all possible rights, from ethnic to sexual, but none of them have spoken of the rights of Serbs to language, to letter, to work and to exist in their own country, i.e.. in part of their own territory, in Kosovo and Metohija. This topic must include both the catastrophic state and the inhuman status of dozens of Serbs in UNMIK's performances in Kosovo and Metohija, which have been there for a third year, without trial and prosecution, despite the fact that our authorities have been very thorough and expediently freed from the Yugoslav prisons of Shiparian separatists, murderers and terrorists, against all international recognised rights and norms, and particularly against any logic of common sense; it is best witnessed by the tragic fate of Angelko Kolasinac, the former president of the Orahovac municipality who, although ill, still lies in UNMIK's dungeon, despite the fact that there is no evidence against him. The latest fact is also the highlight of everything - a formal ban on the use of the name Metohija in so-called. Kosovo's parliament, as a part of Serbia's full name of the southern Serbian province. This set of laws was already a topic of debate a few months ago, and here it is again on the agenda. I fear that in the current political bickerings of ruling parties, which are getting more and more unusual talks in political practice, they are beginning to suffer more and more those structures in the state administration which, by the nature of their work, should be far from the current political developments, so the people of the judiciary. I think some of the proposed solutions are directly hitting on those professional rights of employees in our judiciary, making them more and more monetary in the pursuit of political reckonings of powerful men. It is truly amazing that at the beginning of the third millennium, the legal texts are reintroduced into the concept of moral-political similarities, camuflified in the criteria of dignity, as well as the call for accountability and application of sanctions to those judges who only fairly judged according to then applicable regulations. In this regard, it is incomprehensible that judges are called on to be held accountable and subject to sanctions in the process of processing. On the other hand, there are no words in the proposed legislative solutions on the protection of people working in the judiciary in Kosovo and Metohija, the status and arrangement of courts from Kosovo and Metohija, if we do not count on the fragmentary mention of Pristina, and more as concerns about the activation of courts, rather than the factic function. Instead, we put direct pressure on our judges to hire them in the so-called. Kosovo's judiciary, which is trying to entangle UNMIK. It's interesting that the timing of the campaign for the arrest of our Kosovo-Mitrovian bridge guards with the campaign is due to so-called. Kosovo's judiciary is entered by Serbian judges, thus de facto giving them legitimacy. I wonder if that doesn't mean he's back in the script -- sending Serbs to hit Serbs, that's all. To judge Serbs?- I'm sorry. It is predicted that 37 judges and two in the Supreme Court of Kosovo are being admitted to courts across Kosovo and Metohija. I doubt that they will accept it, and this results from the fact that in the area of Kosovo and Metohija our country very usefully accepts all possible solutions that are removed not in fact, but also in the legal jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia, which it has under the Constitution and the applicable laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23454	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, I ask before concluding a joint search whether they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used the right set out in Article 89. Rules of Procedure? The word is by MP Dragan Todorovic, the authorised representative of the Socialist Party of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23455	Ladies and gentlemen, the fact that seven months ago we considered and adopted proposals for a set of law in the judiciary speaks enough about the fact that this National Assembly is not sufficiently concerned with solving problems, life problems in this country, unlike the previous period when much more attention is focused on solving these problems. Today, we have a situation where this National Assembly is twice engaged in the end of a set of laws in the area of justice within eight months. In order for the matter to be even uglier, then, eight months ago, a large number of amendments were filed by the Socialist Party of Serbia (if you remember, I hope that some of you remember) and a large number of these amendments were rejected by the parliamentary majority with an indignity, with a disdain, with a story that these are amendments that will not contribute to better regulation of the justice system in our country, but, not lying down - today we have a situation to propose, and I see that it is the Government of the Republic of Serbia, proposing some solutions that are literally prescribed from the amendments submitted by the Socialist Party of Serbia a few months ago, more precisely eight months ago. I would have to remind you and document this claim: October 18, under number 72335/01, my smallness has submitted an amendment to Article 27, which is said to add the term "services" to the term "membership in the boards of directors". Unfortunately, you have not adopted that amendment, but you have almost rejected the amendment to Article 66 where item 2 is applied. Delete; of 184 present 86 for, and 76 against. That's it. Today, we have in the proposal to amend and supplement the law the same solution, which is now proposed by the Government. Did the government, meanwhile, become a little smarter or get a little more understanding, or did someone from the Council of Europe or from European structures influence understanding more realistic things, in the form they are?- I'm sorry. However, today on the agenda we have amendments and additions to the set of laws from the judiciary, precisely in those elements proposed by representatives of the Socialist Party of Serbia. Unfortunately, if only these proposals had been adopted, everything would have been fine, perhaps we would have supported such a law. It is logical that such a law would be directed to repair the situation in the judiciary. However, the negative things foreseen by these amendments and the additions of a set of judicial laws make it impossible for us to even think about supporting these amendments and supplementing the law. When I say that, I mean lustration! Minister, you really have a chance to go out after me or when you want to say what you believe or don't believe! You have a chance to say everything you think you're saying, and I have to realize that after this rasmusmoniada, which has been created around the judiciary lately, now as a cream on the cake came a proposal to amend and supplement the law to introduce lustration into the area of justice! Of course, lustration is only for judges, not for public prosecutors, since you obviously put them in another category. Have you designed mechanisms to influence the work of public prosecutors or not, it's up to you to say, but the fact is that lustration is not intended for public prosecutorial office holders. When proposing how this lustration is executed, which is the most noble form of the Amendment to the Law on Judges, the fact that the principle of immunity is protected by Article 5 of this same law is ignored; also the provisions of Article 11, which provide for the provisions on lustration, are unconstitutional, because they directly violate the provisions of Article 96. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia which is currently talking about protecting the independence and independence of the judiciary. This will certainly lead to the direct subjugation of the judicial authority to the executive authority who, after 5 October, has become all-powerful since the arrival of DOS in power; well, as we have just heard several examples of the direct influence of the executive authority on the judiciary, this will be another one of the powers of the executive authority to exercise control over the judiciary. So, just by analysing Article 11. The proposal on amendments and additions to the Law on Judges is seen as predicting three ways to characterise "that the judge of article 79 has been unwittingly acting on duty, if, by exercising judicial authority or by performing affairs on the basis of which the authorities participated in cases of ending the electoral will of citizens". I would have to stop there and explain a little more in detail how these judges could have participated in ending the electoral will of citizens. In this regard, I must remind you that our judges had no option as representatives or members of the United States Supreme Court in the event of an election dispute over the US presidential elections; if you remember, the US Supreme Court has decided to suspend the vote. Fortunately, our courts are neither, nor have, nor should they have such a possibility, because it is just a prelude to the essence, to go into an end, to establish material truth. Our judges and our courts, according to election laws, only had the authority to annul the elections where the conditions for the cancellation of the elections had been won. In no way could they reverse the electoral will of citizens, which is determined only by the vote alone. So it is undeniable that the courts, more specifically the judges, were not given the opportunity to end the electoral will of the citizens. If we accept such a thesis, which the judges refer to: did it to those from 1996; those from 2000; or to these latest examples, as it had recently been in the re-election in Piroth, when it won both times the Socialist Party of Serbia, but when the judge from its known reasons, because we did not get this solution today, made a decision to cancel the election?- I'm sorry. The second condition for the judge's suspension is: participation in political and mounted trials! Now from this place as an ordinary lawyer, who, behold, has arrived to write several amendments that have now reached the consciousness of the government's representatives after eight months, I would like to appeal to the distinguished government gentlemen to say the name of a political convict in Serbia before October 5th. I'd like to hear names like that, not just for myself, but also for a professional public who usually wonders what it's about. In this case, we wouldn't be able to accept this other condition for a judge's discharge. The third condition is a harsh violation, possibly a harsh violation of human rights covered by the Constitution, the law and the international treaty. It is also an extended condition that allows for the resolution of any judge or court who is not at the will of the DOS government, which is really not acceptable! It is also unacceptable to pressure the presidents of the courts; according to the provisions of this member, the President of the Court in which the judge performs his duties must by 1 July 2003 at the latest to the Grand Personal Council to submit a proposal to determine the reasons for the judge's resolution. If he does not do so, then the proceedings shall be initiated by the President of the High Court and for his resolution. This is a kind of pressure on the presidents of the courts and this can hypothetically lead to the resolution of all the presidents of the courts, of course to the President of the Supreme Court. Because of this, the provisions of that Law and the above set of judicial laws cannot come under the approval of the SAA, because we believe that the provisions of the Constitution and the provisions of the Law on Judges themselves have been violated in this way. That's why we can't support laws like this. I can only wish the holders of the judicial functions to make nice promises since October 5th, so let's say, because although they have promised them a lot that their salary will be 1,000 marks a day and today are not all satisfied, every little strike in front of the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23456	Are any of the other authorised representatives or presidents of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? Yeah. ) The speech is attended by MP Mujo Mukovic, deputy president of the parliamentary group Reformists of Vojvodina and the Sandzak Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23457	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I had no intention of speaking on this agenda point, for the simple reason that the parliamentary group of the Reformists of Vojvodina and the Sandzak Democratic Party supports these amendments and the addition of the law. However, several MPs have heard a dispute over the establishment of a commercial court in Novi Pazar, i.e. A trade court in New Market. I would like to say that this is simply about a new approach by the Government of the Republic of Serbia to such issues, I would say, once a perfectly normal and correct approach, equal to all parts of the Republic of Serbia, as well as to New Pazar. There are no political settlements, and especially no deals with a negative sign. If there are political compromises, then it is for the benefit of all citizens and interested businessmen in this area. I want to support this proposal, and if the Sandzak Democratic Party has some merit, which it does, I'm proud of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23458	The Prime Minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Vladan Batic, spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23459	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will respond to several objections mentioned during today's debate. First of all, I want to remind those who forgot that the proposer of a set of judicial laws adopted in November of last year was not the government, but the DSS. I would also like to remind you, and I have said this, that the proposer of these amendments and the addition of this set of judicial laws is the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but with agreement and initiative: the Judges' Associations, the Prosecutors' Association, the Supreme Court of Serbia, the High Council of Justice, which analysed all these proposals; therefore, it is precisely in the desire to reach a law that will be in the hands of Serbia's judiciary and the interests of Serbian citizens. Also, since the opening statement of the SPS parliamentary group president was about some false personal income promises, I must tell you that it is simply not true. When we promised, we said it would be from the beginning of the second half of the year, which means July 1st. That's right. So, July's salary for the bearers of judicial functions will be on average 500 euros. The government concluded this a month ago: it is an increase of about 80 per cent and a few per cent; judges' salaries for violations have increased by 60 per cent and several per cent; for professional associates and trainees 32 per cent; for administrative staff 22 per cent. I ask that administrative and auxiliary staff be paid to increase even more, in order to make some balance and some balance. There's been an appeal to lustration. There's no moral-political resemblance. If there were any kind of hajka, if there had been any inquisition these years and a half days since the new government has exercised executive power, there wouldn't have been only two or three judges; there's no pogrom, there's nothing, and I have to remind you of something else: an earlier set of laws that were in force before the change of power envisioned resolutions in case of unconsciousness. Now some of you think we've become so quickly forgotten, we don't remember what happened in the judiciary before this government. The judiciary was shamed, compromised, reduced to the lowest branches, because the previous government wanted it so. The highest degree of mistrust exists in the judiciary. People in Serbia want to leave the judiciary of all those who have compromised it, they want those who robbed the state and the people to be found on the defendant's benches. They want their actions, everyday and usual, to be faster, more efficient, more solid, etc. It's a request from the citizens of Serbia. Their motto was translated into that Roman-panem ethinenses panem, et justitia- bread and justice. There will be justice in Serbia, but therefore they must leave the corrupt judges. You're saying what happened to falsifying election will?- I'm sorry. It's like there's been amnesia among Serbian citizens. You stole from the election. These judges were involved in election thefts. They were involved in election thefts. There's a Gonzales report, especially those who participated in the election thefts. The Gonzales report was the basis for the back specialis, where electoral theft was recognised and verified. He's right, Ambassador Seselj, those people had to answer! The deadline for their criminal responsibility has been missed, but the deadline for their unconsciousness has not been missed, for falsifying the political will of citizens, because security is a moral category. It can't be criminally - legal, it doesn't have to be criminally - legally sanctioned, but it remains as a single stain, as a single seal, as a disgrace and a disgrace to the Serbian judiciary. That shame and shame must be corrected. You're asking for mounted political processes! There were as many as you wanted. Spider, Osa, the Ibar Highway, the trial of all the leaders of the Alliance for Change, Baptiste, Vladimir Nikolic, Vojislav Seselj was the victim of political persecution and political processes! So, I'm not talking about pointless and caricature processes, such as the Clinton trial, such as the trial of individual Albanians. The terrorists need to be tried, they need to answer in a terrible court, but there were also those who had nothing to do with any crimes they didn't have. So there have been mounted political processes as long as you want! What about Curuvia?- I'm sorry. Well, he was the victim of that mounted political process! What about many journalists, editors, independent media owners? It's all meant to be. Gentlemen, these are mounted political processes. Those people who have conducted these actions, they have nothing to seek in the judiciary. They were supposed to be prosecuted. It wasn't done, but no one's getting the crown off their heads. Why would they have to be judges, and the whole world knows how they acted? People in Serbia, when they see these judges, they say -- what actually changed in the judiciary? They won't be in the judiciary, whether you want it or not, because those who compromised, not only in the judiciary, I'm the advocate of a general lustration, everywhere: in diplomacy, in the military and in the police, those who compromised their profession and honor and reputation of service, must leave there! It wasn't done in time, but it will be done, at least in the judiciary, later, or very soon. After all, it is decided by the Great Personal Greater. I have to tell you that in the last eight to nine months, there has been no motion for resolution. Very carefully, very carefully consider items, to see if there is a reasonable basis for resolution or not. Once again, I must say that these changes concerning lustration are the proposal of Serbia's judiciary, because both honest and honest people, and most of them are in Serbia's judiciary, bothers that they still have to sit with those who have compromised the judiciary. They want like malignant tissue to remove them. It is precisely the request of the highest judicial authorities in Serbia, that this form of lustration be respected and realised. It's about the independence of the judiciary. The independence of the judiciary implies independence in the decision, that the executive authority or the legislative authority is forcing the judicial authorities to initiate proceedings or to impose such convictions or such convictions. We have heard from some MPs the mention of certain cases, where it is decided to judge or not to judge. And it's a interference in the judiciary, it's a interference in decision-making. It's not a mix-up when you want to see if someone's working or not! Work, order and discipline must exist everywhere, even in the judiciary! It's not any interference in the work of the judiciary. I have to tell you about this: there's a Law on Court Order, there's a Law on Ministry, there's a Rules of Procedure that's still in force, there's a Department of Justice, and it's her job to control whether it's done or not. If someone wants a salary of 500 euros, then the principle of responsibility must be imposed on them, it has to be done! Why the cameras? Why not?- I'm sorry. Anyone performing a public function is subject to public opinion assessment! Why would someone cover up their work? We said everything to be open, to be transparent. Therefore, there is no involvement in the judiciary. It is even mentioned how the minister can declare "the day of justice". What regulation does it say that it cannot, especially when the High Council of Justice and the Alliance for Justice Reform stand behind it? I think it's quite positive, that it reminds us of our judicial tradition, of something that can be the pride of the Serbian judiciary and that tradition, in a way, we should return. As for the composition of the Great Personal Council, I must tell you as the minister of justice who has not influenced it, I am also dissatisfied. The fact is that in the Great Personal Council there are people who are over 65 years old, and the fact is that they should retire all who are 65 years old, because it's a constitutional category and it's regulated, anyway, and the Labour Act. In addition, in the Great Personal Council, to make the paradox bigger, there is a man who was a member of the Republic Election Commission, whose resolution was requested and this resolution was not realised because there was no majority at the General Court of Serbia; because, unfortunately, we know the composition of the Supreme Court of Serbia, from which time these judges and what merits they had to have, apart from the honorable exceptions, to be elected judges of the Supreme Court of Serbia. There's no name here, it's all clear, everyone in Serbia knows that there were special criteria and that's exactly what you're alluding to, a moral-political resemblance. There's no moral-political resemblance today, just imposing the principle of responsibility as top axiom, at least in the judiciary. There was no order to be cleared from 50 to 100 judges. So far, there are around 70 and several proposals by the president of the resolution courts, addressed to the Great Personal Council. In order not to owe, I think that there are justified requests for the establishment of a trade court in Novi Pazar, for the establishment of a trade court in Chačka and the departments of the Jagodina trade court. I, as Minister of Justice, will accept on behalf of the Government of that amendment, because life, circumstances, traffic, simply, economic expansion in these cities, fully justify the formation of these courts, or departments. One more thing: the status of judges from Kosovo and Metohija has been mentioned, and it is reportedly the pressure for these judges to be incorporated or implemented into UNMIK's multiethnic judiciary. I was in a meeting with these judges in Zvecan: they were looking for additional conditions; we made a huge effort to ensure these additional conditions; we called them again, the President of the Supreme Court, the minister of justice, my smallness, and spoke to them again and told them it was up to them to decide. We have provided free accommodation, priority in restoring their property, employment for members of their families, employment of administrative and technical staff, alongside judicial officials, maximum security guaranteed. Of course, everyone has to decide, although it is for the first time possible, for these three years, that someone should officially return and work in Kosovo and Metohija, and the decision is, in any case, on these people. No one wants to put any pressure on them. We said that they would eventually apply, the application is not binding, and then the process will show whether there are objective opportunities for them to return to Kosovo and Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23460	Anybody else answer for a word? The word has a National MP Dragan Todorovic, a replica; the basis for the replica is the mention of the SPS.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23461	Ladies and gentlemen, I would only remind all of us here that it is clear that there were reasons for the resolution of judges and judges of jurors who then, in that set of judicial laws, had the same treatment, unlike the present, when they did not have it again. We tried to correct that mistake with amendments, but I hope you'll have an understanding. We'll see how you react to that. So, Article 46. The law on courts was provided for a jury to be relieved of judicial duty against their will, not lustration, in the following cases: if they are convicted of a criminal offence on an unconditional sentence of imprisonment of at least six months, or if they are convicted of a criminal offence which makes them unfit to perform a judicial function; if, on the basis of findings and opinions of a competent medical institution, they are not able to perform their duties, if it is determined that they have performed an unprofessionally and unwittingly a judicial function and if they are found to act contrary to Article 5 of this Act. This is the reason why the Supreme Court is initiating proceedings for the resolution of judges, and there are no three reasons and three grounds, participation in mounted court proceedings, etc. There's not one of what you're predicting and there's no way these conditions can be resolved by the judges until a certain time when the presidents of the courts have to initiate the proceedings. Even more frantic is one thing we heard a little bit from the minister, which is a warning that all those holders of judicial functions who tried Javier Solana, Bill Clinton and all those who destroyed our country, who killed our children for 78 days.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23462	I ask the MP to quote exactly the minister. The minister said the Clinton trial was pointless. He did not mention the holders of the judicial functions involved in the trial.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23463	I heard the minister say those judges who participated in pointless actions against Bill Clinton, Javier Solana or something. So it's a shame. Whether I'm lying or lying to someone else, you can see for yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23464	Anybody else answer for a word? Nobody. ) I conclude a joint principled search on: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts and Public Prosecutors, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Courts and Public Prosecutors, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Courts of Justice, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Courts of Justice, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Prosecutors and a Single Search on Proposals for Decisions on the termination of functions and selection of holders of judicial functions, and this: Proposal for a decision on the termination of the jurisdiction of judges and special courts, with the addition of the proposal and the decision of 8 July 2002 and 15 July 2002, to a decision on the termination of the office of public prosecutors, the motion of a decision on the choice of judges and the President of the General Court of Judges of the Court of Justice of the Court of Justice of the Court of Justice of 12 and of Justice of 22 July 2002. We're continuing our work on the agenda. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on the Regulation of the Courts You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted by the MPs: Leila Ruzdić-Trifunović, Išpanovic Istvan, Sinisa Mitrović, Vojislav Seselj, Zarko Obradović, Ljubisa Maravic, Toma Busetic and Rajko Baralić; Hranislav Perić, Joca Arsic, Milan Janković and Toma Busetic; and Jovan Todorovic, Joca Arsić, Milan Jankovic and Toma Busetic. You have received the Government's opinion on certain amendments. You have received reports from the Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee; at the session of the Legislative Committee, MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović withdrew the amendment to Article 9. Since the National Assembly has conducted a joint principle search, under which the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Law on Court Orders has been discussed, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. Here's a word, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the deputy president of the DOS parliamentary group, MP Sinisa Mitrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23465	On the basis of Article 137. Rules of Procedure, I suggest that the time for discussion in particular takes three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23466	I would like to put to the vote the proposal by Parliamentarian Sinisa Mitrovica that the time of the amendments is three minutes. Here you go. For 83, against 24, the abstentions were not voted 31, out of a total of 138 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that the debate in particular takes three minutes. National MP Vojislav Seselj submitted to the 1st amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment come forward for a word? Here's a word from MP Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23467	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1 amending Article 10 of the existing law, which lists the courts of general jurisdiction and special courts. Article 1 of this proposal introduces several appeals courts instead of one appeal court, so the plurality in the text is "appellate courts", and I, in my amendment, plead that the appeals courts should be completely deleted, that the courts of general jurisdiction, municipal, county and supreme. Of course, that also means erasing attitude 3 as I have stated in the amendment, erasing - special courts, the Higher Trade Court and the Administrative Court. You can see how this law unscathedly formulates the issue of a second-degree court case. There are municipal courts with specified responsibilities, district courts with specified responsibilities and a court of appeal that judges in the second degree based on complaints of first-degree judgments and municipal and district courts. Which means from the aspect of the treatment of complaints as regular legal remedies in the second-degree procedure, municipal and county courts are completely even. It does not appear anywhere that it will be special in the Court of Appeal, which will deal exclusively with the second-degree resolution of first-degree judgments of municipal courts and special councils to deal in the second-degree judgments of district courts. It's completely even. There's no degree. Then why are there municipal and county courts as special courts in the first place?- I'm sorry. Then what's their difference?- I'm sorry. The district court previously had additional authority because it corrected or abolished first-degree court rulings. He had the right to change them. Now this right has an appeal court in relation to both the municipal and the county. What, then, is the difference between municipal and county courts, except that you have classified their disputes and crimes according to a certain criterion which is also problematic?- I'm sorry. It doesn't make any difference. It's completely pointless then. The district court must be returned to jurisdiction in the second degree for the judgments of the municipal court, and, as so far, this can be resolved through special judicial councils, departments, etc. Further, special trade and administrative courts in the world have proved to be a bad solution. You know, and ordinary people, citizens are able to undermine all courts that are not regular courts, which are not in the system of the courts of general jurisdiction. We have so far had practice, in a previous period, that business courts were far more difficult to carry out in the executive procedure of their verdict than the courts of general jurisdiction, precisely because of such treatment. The executive procedure is very complicated. The executive procedure so far has been the most problematic in the entire judicial system -- you get a verdict, you have no opportunity to execute it; if it is before the courts of general jurisdiction somehow and could, in other courts it has been very difficult, now it will go even harder. On the other hand, what makes a mess is that people who are layers of legal theory and practice are much harder to cope with, which is also what Parkinson's law on geometrically increasing bureaucracy is going to appear here. Bureaucracies have a habit of making up their own work and spreading to all sides. You use this to strengthen the judicial administration, increase the number of court seats, increase the court's material costs! And the quality, by the nature of things, you're reducing. There won't be any better judgments. When you have only courts of general jurisdiction, competition among judges is much greater. Secondly, there is a much higher degree of mutual knowledge regarding quality, expertise, security, diligence, principles etc. A much better selection will be done on the issue of elections in several courts, especially the Supreme Court. I see you have today proposed several judges of the High Court of Commerce for the Supreme Court. I guess they're only known in a circle of current economic courts. The question is immediately raised - are the same criteria represented, when judges of the general jurisdiction become judges of the Supreme Courts and the judges of these other courts become the same, etc. A whole series of questions and complications that could be avoided by one fundamental change in Article 10.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23468	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) Will you use a total time of six minutes? (Employee Vojislav Seselj, from the place: Yes. ) There is a word from MP Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23469	Ladies and gentlemen, amendment to Article 2. The draft law on amendments and additions actually refers to a member of the 12th law so far, which speaks of other courts in the republic, next to the Supreme Court of Serbia. You see, the Court of Appeal can't be a court of republican rank, if the Supreme Court is a court of republican rank. The Court of Appeal is here designed as a court parallel to the Supreme Court on the one hand, but on the other hand, the Supreme Court decides on the extraordinary legal remedies of the judgment of the Court of Appeals. The Supreme Court is then in the court hierarchy above the appeal court. What you lack here is a determination of hierarchy among courts. The courts of the Republic rank have so far been the Supreme and Constitutional Stud. There is a division of jurisdiction between the Supreme Court and the Constitutional Court, but there is no possibility for the Constitutional Court to decide on an emergency legal remedy compared to the Supreme Court rulings. That's impossible. The Supreme Court's rulings are final, upon them, possibly still an emergency legal remedy can also be filed by the same Supreme Court, and in some cases by the Federal Court. The Constitutional Court has no second-degree jurisdiction over Supreme Courts or emergency legal remedies, and here the Supreme Court has second-degree jurisdiction over the Court of Appeal, at least in emergency legal remedies. You speak here of the courts of the Republic. The court of the Republic rank means the highest court case, after which there is no longer a call at the level of the Republic at any other court instance. That's what I'm explaining to you, as there is no appeal at the Constitutional Court for the Supreme Court's verdict. The Court of Appeal, by nature of things, cannot be a court of the Republic rank, especially now that you double them, triple them, double it, double it; as you predicted, four appeals! Then how can those four appeals courts be the courts of the Republic? They are not the courts of the Republic. You didn't even predict a change in the title of this department in law, did you? You are now planning four appeals courts, all four of them called republican courts, or courts of the republican rank. He can't! If you had at least introduced some regional rank, or something else, some logic would have been, but obviously you didn't think much of it when you passed this law, not even now that you're changing it. First of all, it's no use to you that the existing law will disavow with the fact that it was passed on to the DSS proposal. What difference does it make? All of the ruling parties voted for him. He's your common law. Since you've shared that initiative with each other, we're not interested in it, either in the opposition or in the general public. You've passed a law, which is obviously not good, you admit it's not good, but you have to change it. I justify your desire to change it, but I criticise you not to change it thoroughly. Obviously, you don't change it thoroughly. Answer this question now - how can appeals courts be the courts of the Republic? The appeal court could not have been before, when only one was imagined in the structure of the judicial authority, especially now that there are four. It's not a court of republican rank. The court of the republic's rank is the latest court case in the Republic, the highest judicial authority in the Republic, whether it is regular, whether it is an emergency legal remedy for them to resolve. So I suggest, first, that you delete this title above Article 12, and then Article 12 itself and keep the system that existed. Because you need to look for perfection in simplicity. The simpler the system of judicial authority, the more effective it is, the more public control of the work of the courts. What Minister Batic explained earlier, that public control when he comes in with cameras, is not true! The judge doesn't take that kind of control. Maybe he went out to the park to think about the verdict he needed to make. In creative work, there is no such control, and especially cannot be controlled by the executive authority. Oneko can't determine a sanction, it's pointless to control it. The minister here is aware that he can't determine the sanctions, but that's why he introduces the camera, so he introduces the parasence into the legal system, and the parasence is that some kind of television... (was this the television by academics Bogoljub Karic, who was, like, television from some science academy? ..... that they are now showing the public what the minister has found, and it is very problematic from both legal and moral aspects, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23470	This concludes the morning part; we continue the session at 15.00 hours, with discussion in particular and amendment to Article 3, which was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23471	Dear ladies and gentlemen, please insert identification cards into your MPs to determine the quorum. I find that we have a quorum and we can continue to work on the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the regulation of courts, in particular. National MP Vojislav Seselj submitted to the 3rd amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23472	Ladies and gentlemen, with my amendment to article 3, I follow this idea of abolishing the appeals courts. You see, Article 3 speaks of directly higher courts and says that Serbia's Supreme Court is a directly higher court for: the Court of Appeal, the Higher Commercial Court and the Administrative Court. Now look what's going on! We have the first determination of the courts of the Republic rank. If all of these were the courts of the Republic, the Supreme, the Court of Appeals and the Administrative Court, the Higher Trade and Management, then how can the Appellate, the Higher Trade and Management be subordinated to the Supreme Court? The courts of the republican rank are a provision, which means they're all the same rank. Where everyone has the same rank, there's no subordination. She's not possible here. Furthermore, it says here that the Higher Commercial Court is directly higher than the Trade Court and the Appellate Court is directly higher for county and municipal. Why, then, on the same criteria, is an appeal not directly higher court for trade? On the same criterion that, therefore, municipal, district, trade decisions are made in the first degree, and appeal for all of them in the second degree and then appeal for all kinds of these disputes. You see, one more thing: in paragraph 3 regarding the issues of the internal arrangement of courts and the application of the Law on Judges, a directly higher court for the municipal court is a district court. It is only higher in terms of the internal structure of courts, their arrangements and the application of the Law on Judges, and is not higher in terms of the judgments to be made, i.e. in the second-degree resolution of regular legal medicines. There's no elemental logic there. If this issue were treated differently as it has been so far, there would be no legal misunderstanding. When you look at the difference between the municipal court and the county court, it is taxingly listed in Articles 21 and 22. In criminal cases, the municipal court judges those cases where a sentence is imposed up to 10 years in prison, and the county over 10 years in prison. What difference does that make? There's no principle of difference. Is it gonna be nine or eleven years? Is there any difference in the qualification of judges? No, I don't. On what criteria, then, should the district court be a higher court than the municipal court in the matter of the internal arrangements of the courts and the application of the Law on Judges? Then why should he be in charge? Then why wouldn't the Court of Appeal be in charge of them all? There's a division of authority here. Instead of having a unique system that is coherent, in which the superiors would be in charge of all, therefore, the district court of the municipality, all surrounded by the Supreme without any exceptions - there is a situation here that excludes one kind of authority, and establishes another kind of authority. Where there is an essential authority, and the essential authority is in solving legal cases, disputes, criminal proceedings, etc., it does not exist, and it exists on purely administrative matters, in matters of the functioning of the judicial administration, etc. That's what doesn't make sense in this case, which is some kind of fashion. You know, the one who wrote the draft of this law at the time the law was passed, he had in mind that there used to be appeals courts with us, so thought should be done again. In the Kingdom of Yugoslavia there were administrative courts, but their second degree was not the Supreme Court or the Casation Court, this court of seven, whose seat was in Zagreb - the second-degree body was a state council, so the entire jurisdiction of the Administrative Court was out of the ordinary judiciary, the administrative court, the state council, and the state council settled in the second-degree administrative disputes and resolved constitutional disputes. The State Council was then in charge of ruling in case of disagreement of general legal acts with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23473	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) National MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 3a be added after Article 3a. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23474	The esteemed presidency, respected colleagues and colleagues, my amendment reads - after Article 3a adds a new Article 3a, which reads: In Article 22, paragraph 2 of the words "the federal law and the law of the Republic of Serbia" are replaced by the words "Critic law of the SR of Yugoslavia", and the word "rape" is deleted. I believe that it is not necessary and unnecessary to burden the jurisdiction of the district court with criminal acts which, in their social danger and threatened sentence, constitute less dangerous crimes. Only crimes against the economy and the single Yugoslav market should be placed in the jurisdiction of the district court, not all crimes against the economy and the single Yugoslav market, which are already prescribed in some laws; in some federal and in some laws of the Republic of Serbia. Please support this amendment for the simple reason that I think such precision is necessary, and I note that the amendment was also supported by the Justice Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23475	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) National MP Sinisa Mitrovic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 3a be added after Article 3a. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Hranislav Peric, Joca Arsic, Milan Jankovic and Toma Busetic together submitted an amendment suggesting that a new member of the 3a be added after Article 3a. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. Does a representative of the applicants of the amendment want a word? The word is made by MP Hranislav Peric, representative of the applicants for the amendment to Article 3.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23476	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, with counterparts Joco Arsic, Milan Jankovic-Jiret and Tom Busetic, have tabled an amendment to article 3 in front of the Socialist Party of Serbia. We have proposed that a new Article 3a be added after Article 3a, which reads "Article 22, point 3 is deleted". In point 3, you suggest that the district court conducts criminal proceedings against minors. So far, that jurisdiction has had a municipal court, which is now our proposal. In addition, a significant change in actual jurisdiction would lead to the fact that, at the time of the entry into force of the jurisdiction provision, a large number of cases will be granted to the district courts, which will have to resume the main search and bring out evidence. In other words, it would all lead to a delay in proceedings. When it comes to the conduct of proceedings against minors, the adoption of amendments would prevent unnecessarily more complicated access to court by minors and their parents, which would, of course, arise if the entire substance of juvenile crime was in the jurisdiction of the district courts. The extended scope of the jurisdiction of the district courts in criminal matter would also create a number of organisational problems, such as: the need for new judges and additional staff in district courts, the need to increase the number of courts and cabinets in buildings where district courts are located, the excess judges in municipal courts, all the more reason to accept the amendment proposal for Article 22. The law on the regulation of courts, which means that a criminal case against minors is being conducted by a municipal court.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23477	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? The speech is attended by MP Dragan Todorovic, an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23478	Ladies and gentlemen, I think the essence of this amendment is very clear, I think that the intention to return, more specifically to determine the jurisdiction of municipal courts in criminal proceedings against minors, is well explained by MP Peric. I appeal to you, due to the fact that in practice a situation may arise that in those cities where there are no district courts, therefore in those cities that are not the hosts of the district courts' headquarters, a large number of criminal proceedings against minors can occur and that in order to allow better access, both parents and minors themselves, participants in these litigation disputes, the possibility of remaining the solution for municipal courts to have the opportunity to conduct criminal disputes against minors. I think this solution is in the interests of the citizens themselves, and I hope you will have an understanding of our argument.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23479	No more reported for the word on this amendment. National MP Ispanovic Istvan submitted an amendment proposing that a new Article 3a be added after Article 3a. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. The amendmentr doesn't want a word. No word reported, no other participants. National MP Vojislav Seselj submitted to the 4th amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23480	Ladies and gentlemen, Article 23. The law speaks of the jurisdiction of the Court of Appeal, and the new Law on Amendments and Supplements there only pro-forms are changed by the Court of Appeal, which is here in unity and turns into a plural in such a way that there is no longer a capital letter and at the beginning of the words, so it is thought of several appeals courts. However, the essence here is a conflict of jurisdiction. The conflict of jurisdiction arises immediately between the municipal court and the district court, as soon as the municipal court is no longer subject to the district court. Could there be a conflict of jurisdiction between a municipal and a district court in the current system? Theoretically, it can, but very difficult, because everything that is resolved, the judgment in the municipal court is subject to review by the district court in a regular appeal procedure. Since there is no regular appeal procedure now, since the district court does not resolve the second-degree judgment of the municipal court, there is a conflict of jurisdiction. There will be a conflict of jurisdiction between the municipal or county and the commercial court. And what is the danger of the frequent occurrence of a conflict of jurisdiction, when everything can simply be solved?- I'm sorry. If there are only technical problems that the government cannot, for example, move to Belgrade in one building to accommodate all departments of the District Court, it can find a solution: the prosecution to move to the former Court of Commerce, still the Court of Commerce, and the District Court department, which would make up judges of the former Court of Justice, the Court of Justice. These are very simple solutions. Instead of searching for such simple solutions, everything here is deliberately complicated. What is the purpose of a more complicated norm in the legal order? It cannot be calculated to better protect the freedoms and rights of man and citizen. This more complicated leads to the opposite of what the constitutionmaker wanted to achieve by modern legal order. So once again, I urge you to accept these amendments to the law and... (From O.R.: What's the amendment? ..... It is about the amendment to Article 4. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements, as referred to in Article 23. The law, so that, consistently through the entire text of the law, appeals courts are thrown out or county courts be second-degree courts in the system of the ordinary judiciary, as courts of general jurisdiction. On the other hand, to accept the abolition of the concept of trade and administrative courts and to make all courts the courts of general jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23481	Thank you. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Išpanovich Istvan. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23482	Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment to Article 6 concerns Article 33. Court-order law. He treats the issue from the section, and says in it: "The work of the department, legal issues, methods and improvements in the work and expertise of judges, judicial assistants and judicial interns and anything else that is relevant to the department are discussed. "The departments of the district court, the Court of Appeal and the High Court of Commerce are also considering issues important for the work of the district courts. "I simply ask that the Court of Appeal and the Higher Trade Court be deleted, while only pro-forms of the revisions of the Amendments and Supplements Bills. You see, in this case, in the case of the detour, if the court's sessions are to discuss a whole series of issues concerning their work, their improvement, the expertise of the judges, etc., it makes sense, if it's a court of general jurisdiction, so there's much greater dispersion of the department, the criminal department, civil litigation, teaching law, family law, etc. Why, for example, do you have a trade law here? Administrative law would not go to the level of the basic or municipal court, but county courts by nature things are capable of dealing with administrative law. Why, then, this principle of double-stageness in administrative - legal disputes, would not be satisfied at the level of the district and Supreme Court or, as so far, as to be the exclusive jurisdiction of the Supreme Court, with the second degree then taking place before the same Supreme Court, the settlement of the appeal as a regular legal remedy.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23483	Thank you. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23484	Listen, I didn't make this many amendments to give up on them. This is about an amendment to Article 7. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements, and it actually refers to Article 36. The law, which speaks of special departments in county courts and in the Court of Appeal. You see now, it is said: "There is an emergency department in the Court of Appeal in matters where the law determines that the appeal procedure is urgent. "Why didn't the legislator at the Court of Appeals now predict the resolution department in the second degree according to the judgments of the municipal courts, the resolution department in the second degree of regular legal remedies according to the judgments of the district courts?- I'm sorry. This makes much more sense than the existence of a special department that will deal with the urgent nature of the procedure, the urgent treatment of a whole series of cases. I know you're not interested in this very much, but it's very important, it shows the inconsistencies of the legal text. If you have in the district and municipal courts a division of departments, if you have in the district courts a special department for crimes against the economy and unity of the Yugoslav market and labour dispute departments, for example - what is the problem, that the district court in jurisdiction is given all the current jurisdiction of the trade court?- I'm sorry. If the district court is already going to deal with crimes against the economy and unity of the Yugoslav market, it is difficult for a whole series of economic disputes or trade disputes, as you now call it, to assess whether there are elements of the criminal act of this kind or not. If a lawsuit is conducted in front of a trade court, it does not exclude this crime, in fact, it sometimes implies it in some cases of disputes over high amounts, etc. Sometimes only disputes in the sphere of trade courts can overcome value, one dispute can exceed the total value of the dispute before the district court for a whole year, after all. Then why is it a special court, why is it outside the system of general jurisdiction, if the basic criteria there are disrupting the choice of judges. It's much more attractive to be a judge of the county court than a judge of a trade court. There's no doubt about that. I suggest you accept the amendment in this case, too. So, to accept the order of all these amendments that I have submitted, because only their acceptance in the series achieves both the goal and the purpose. Accepting one, not accepting another, doesn't solve anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23485	Is there anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. I would remind only the People's MP that what he has submitted to the amendments and if he does not come out to explain them does not necessarily mean that he is giving up; your amendments remain in the procedure, you do not always have to explain them. (Employer Seselj from the place: Is it little to you that I do not go out on other amendments?) ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23486	Ladies and gentlemen, and this amendment applies to Article 37 where it is spoken... Is this an amendment to Article 8?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23487	Yes, to Article 8 relating to Article 46.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23488	To Article 46. (I always get these papers, but I manage easily), article 46 tells of the court's secretary and says, "The secretary of the court is led by the secretary of the court, who, on a proposal from the President of the Court, is appointed by the General Session. The Serbian Supreme Court secretary can only be one who meets the requirements of the Court of Appeal." And why the appeal? Why not a trade, why not a administrative court, why not a Supreme Court judge? Does this mean that the Supreme Court Secretary must have experience in practice as a judge? It doesn't have to, and why would it?- I'm sorry. Why should he even meet the requirements of the Court of Appeal? First, the secretary has no jurisdiction. The secretary is a clean manager. Why didn't you compare the Supreme Court secretary to the Secretary General of the Government of Serbia or the Secretary of the National Assembly? That makes sense. Nowhere does it appear that the secretary of the National Assembly must meet the conditions necessary for the judge of the District Court or the judge of the Court of Appeal? You're looking for expertise, you're looking for work experience, you're looking for ability. Where does that stand every secretary general of the government?- I'm sorry. As the government has its administration, its administration, as there is parliamentary administration and administration, there is also a judicial one. You cannot set up a Supreme Court secretary conditions that are not intended for the Secretary of the Government or for the Secretary of the National Assembly! It's their only pandan here. One more thing: under the powers it has, the Secretary of Government is on a more irresponsibly responsible duty, indeed there are enormous powers and huge possibilities. The Secretary of the Court is not in that case, nor is it with the Secretary of the Supreme Court. Then why the condition? Someone thought of it and thought that anything that came to his mind had to be translated into a legal norm! Every legal norm must have a purpose and purpose, it must have its purpose. What is achieved by this legal norm, which is the goal -- that the judges of the Court of Appeals appear in a contest for the Supreme Court's secretary. It's pointless.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23489	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) National MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new article 8a be added after article 8. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23490	With my amendment, I'm trying to correct one injustice. The law stipulates that a court with 20 and more than 20 judges also has a court secretary. I suggest that a court with 10 and more judges have a court secretary. I think the secretary is a man who helps the president of the court do administrative work. Whether it's 10 or 20 judges, there's a very small difference in the size of the job, and otherwise there's a huge amount of work for the president himself, so I suggest that the courts with 10 judges have a secretary. My second proposal in the amendment is that the secretary of the court is not elected from the ranks of the judge's assistants, but also from the ranks of the employees. I, who spent 35 years in the judiciary, think it's a great shame that we children who come to court for judicial assistants who are getting ready for the career of a judge or a lawyer are moving away from their profession and we point out that they are dealing with administrative matters. I think sending them to the administration is turning their entire career to the other side, so I urge that employees of the court, who have the appropriate qualifications, can also be the secretaries of the court, not just judicial assistants!
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23491	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23492	Ladies and gentlemen, unlike the Government proposing certain amendments to Article 69, this article refers to the contents of the judge's personal list of judges and employees, the government is changing that and says it is a personal list of judges. So one big difference, even though it doesn't look like it for the first time. The first formulation was the personal list of the jury judge and the employee. I guess it's meant to be an employee judge, but it's so clumsy and incredibly formulated, it's also published without any professional editorial in the Official Messenger. It contains: name and last name, birth, nationality, residence, etc. The government here has thrown out some of that data, like nationality and some. It doesn't matter at all. I don't think this kind of personal-listing is appropriate to the democratic justice system at all. Judges are people in employment, and they are managed by the personnel department by a personal record to regulate all labour rights, as well as all other employees in the state, both in the state service and in the private sector. Then why would the judge have such a special record run, and we later saw that this job was in the justice department's jurisdiction? That doesn't make any sense. The President of the Court keeps records of all courts being engaged. The court shall, under official duty, monitor any proceedings in which a particular judge has planted or ruled. Then why the special record? You've been campaigning to cut the number of files, open the file, and you've advocated a much higher degree of freedom and democracy than you're actually prepared to achieve. In fact, in practice you deny everything you promised. There's a whole series of things here that are disastrously misdetermined in the legal text, and the bill on amendments and additions does sort of fix it, but not enough. It corrects the worst: data, a list of blood relatives in a straight line or a sideline line up to the fourth degree of relatives and Tabian relatives in a straight line working in the judiciary, etc. That's ridiculous. It may occur that relatives work in different courts, one in Subotica, the other in Nis. That's no problem. This could mean that, independently of each other, they were elected to judicial functions. But what is left here is the question of what, in general, is the purpose of the paper: name and last name, father's name, place, day, month and year of birth, residence data, completed law school, success in studies, traineeship practice, judicial examination, movement in service, day of completion of the workday, meeting the court's norm, referring to work in another court, moving away from duty, disciplinary measures, conduct of criminal proceedings, termination of duties, published professional and scientific works, knowledge of foreign languages, property conditions and housing opportunities?- I'm sorry. This is all kept in the personal file needed to regulate the working-law status of all employees, including the judge. In that sense, the judges should not constitute any exception. When does a judge need to get all this information? Then when they apply for a choice. For the first step, an average should also be sought in the study and knowledge of foreign languages and all that is stated here, and then it is understood, when applied to multiple titles, that it has all been fulfilled once. Then what's that for? Or the question can be asked -- if he didn't answer, how could he be chosen?- I'm sorry. But keeping a personal record and taking him to the Department of Justice directly denies the principle of independence of the judiciary.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23493	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zarko Obradović, Ljubisa Maravic, Toma Busetic and Rajko Baralic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does a representative of the applicants of the amendment want a word? Here's a word from MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23494	Mrs. Micic, colleagues and fellow MPs, respected journalists, the explanation I will give will differ from what we have just heard. With colleagues Zarko Obradovic, Ljubisa Maravić and Tom Busetic on behalf of the SPS, I submitted an amendment to Article 10. The judge’s personal list contains: name, last name, father’s name, place, day, month and year of birth, residence data, completed law school, etc. You all have an amendment. Since the information contained in the judge's personal list is protected by Article 68 of this Act as an official secret, we believe that these provisions do not violate the right to privacy guaranteed by Article 18 and Article 20. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The judge, however, is no ordinary worker, regardless of what he is doing, performing a judicial duty, receiving a salary, the judge is in every respect and in every social arrangement a man whose engagement and work everyone cares about in one way or another. For some, he is interesting because he judges them and others because in another sense they are interested in how the court and the judiciary work in general. Of course this isn't equalizing your personal list and file. If we set things up like that, then this amendment wouldn't make sense. The file's something else. This is a way to establish a record of the conditions, of the movement in service, of the results, of the judge's special knowledge, and I think that this amendment can remain as proposed, that it makes sense and that it merits your support. Here, of course, it would be interesting to particularly regulate relations in families that, if possible, have relatives on all these lines and sides among lawyers. That thing's a lot of trouble. It is usually problematic, and today in Serbia it cannot be measured in a way that would ensure that it can be controlled absolutely, but the bar of attorneys and all others who are interested should do everything in their power to make sure that close relatives are not in certain cases in courts, on one side as judges, and others as lawyers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23495	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Here's a word from MP Dragan Tododorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23496	Ladies and gentlemen, the essence of our amendment is to keep the provisions of the applicable Law on the regulation of courts, which stipulate that in the personal list of employees in the judiciary, jurors and judges, provisions that provide for the completion, i.e. the provision of data on blood relatives in the right line and on the sideline of up to the fourth degree of relatives and Tabisan relatives in the real line working in the judiciary, state administration or lawyers, as well as data on the movements of spouses in the service, data on more serious changes in health conditions, as well as data on members of the family household. I would particularly point out here that it is important to say that according to the provisions of the old Law on Courts, it was clear that there would be a need for data, particularly on the state of health, on the enforcement of judicial functions, and therefore we are at the conclusion that these provisions should remain, and in particular we cannot agree with the fact and the claim made by this bill,... Please, yes, in accordance with Article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly remind MPs who are impatient and are obviously in a hurry to go somewhere, to draw attention and to allow SPS MPs to explain their amendments, and to give notice to MPs who do not wish to grant us parliamentary rights, in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, we do not agree with the facts set out in the explanation of the amendments and the addition of this bill, which say that the data on personal and family status, which are entered in the personal list of jurors, employees and judges, refer to Articles 18 and 20. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and that they violate the right to protect the privacy guaranteed by these views or members of the Constitution. I'd say it's, by Article 18. The Constitution, human dignity and the right to the private life of a man incurably; and Article 20 provides for the protection of the confidentiality of personal data, and for the collection, processing and use of personal data are governed by law; therefore, there are constitutional possibilities for the collection of such data and for keeping records of such data in the personal list of judges and jurors, and therefore there are no constitutional obstacles to the conduct and introduction of such data in the personal list. However, as regards the provision which provides for the entry of national data, it is contrary to Article 49(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and for this reason we have proposed that these data and this obligation to enter the nationality data be deleted from the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23497	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here's a word from MP Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23498	To cheer you up, I'll suddenly give an explanation for the amendment to Articles 12, 13, 14 and 15. You see, all these amendments apply to the members of the Law which prescribe the time limit of entry into force of that act relating to the Court of Appeal and the Administrative Court. The court order bill was passed about a year ago. It was adopted in October of last year and was left until 1 October 2002 to enter into force provisions relating to the appeals and administrative court. It is obvious that neither the courts nor the Justice Department are able to provide conditions for this to happen on October 1st. That is why the government is proposing to move the deadline by another five months until March 1st. I can assure you that it's not enough time, that you're making this much trouble without needing it. Even by March 1st, there will be no conditions for the start of the work of appeals and administrative courts. We have the case and the Federal Assembly when many laws are passed with a delayed period of validity and then automatically, every year, that deadline is moved by a year. Remember the Law on Payments, which set out that payment and payment services, i.e. former SDK, go to business banks. For four or five years, perhaps longer, year after year, it was passed, in December, December 31st, a new law extending it for another year. Here we will be in a situation where every five months we change this law, because it will not be possible, because it is not just money, huge money is needed, buildings are needed, new administration, people getting used to doing all this, instead of what has so far been working as a stalking system, with certain improvements and ensuring true independence of the judiciary, capable of doing much better to achieve their social and state role.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23499	No more reported for the word on this amendment. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Todorovic, Joca Arsic, Milan Jankovic and Toma Busetic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. Does a representative of the applicants of the amendment want a word? There is a word from MP Jovan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23500	Dear Mrs Micic, ladies and gentlemen, the essence of this amendment tabled by a group of SPS MPs is precisely to express disagreement with the delaying deadlines for the establishment of an appeal and administrative court. We think that the Ministry of Justice and that the government in general had enough time, almost seven months in this year and two and a half months until October 1st, to create financial, material and personnel conditions, to establish both an appeal and a administrative court, especially since recently, two and a half months ago, we passed the Law on the rise of court fees and then we had the reason for the promoters to use part of such funds for the new organisation of the judiciary in the Republic of Serbia. We cannot take the impression that there is also animosity of the existing Government or the Ministry, according to a whole set of laws in the field of justice, because, as is known, the proposer of these laws was the DSS, and then with one trade and one agreement, here in this House - you will vote for the Law on Labour, and we for a set of law on the judiciary - bring that set of laws and it is clearly difficult or not applied. The second reason that, in my view, is also important is the item of the agenda that we will have in the follow-up of this session, when we consider the proposal for a law on the prevention of organised crime. I remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that the law stipulates that second-degree courts are in proceedings to combat organised crime, precisely appeals. And how we're going to fight crime if we don't have second-degree courts or if we delay their constitution and bring them into office indefinitely. The question of responsibility can obviously also be raised here because it is incomprehensible to my reasoning that the government has been unable to provide 22 million dinars over the past seven months, as it is said to be necessary to provide additional funds in Serbia's budget, so that these laws can be applied. Ladies and gentlemen, it's about 350,000 euros, so if someone in this room tells me it's such a financial problem, that the government couldn't solve it, then the question is, who, what's he doing in that government, especially in the competent ministry?- I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23501	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? There is a word from MP Dragan Todorovic, the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23502	Just to add that this is an eclectic example of how an unserious approach in the making of the law can come into the situation that, for a period of eight to nine months, the provisions of a legislative proposal are being amended, the provisions on the extension of deadlines, which was really not good, and, if we look at the real situation, that the DSS is the proposing of these laws, so now Mr. Minister, the Honorable Mr. Batic, says that he is not the Proposer, he is not familiar with these things, he does not know how to propose such deadlines, what can happen hypothetically in the future, if any of the DOS parties come forward from DOS, e.g. Social democracy, which, following the ruling of the Federal Constitutional Court, needs to get its mandates back, what will happen to all the laws that have been passed in the meantime, God knows. But we think that the planned extension of the deadlines is unacceptable precisely because of the irresponsible behaviour of the legislators of these laws and because we cannot allow the hour to be passed by laws laid down for a period of time, so other laws that extend that period are passed. In view of and the fact that, in the capacity of the appeals courts, this is now arranged in a slightly different way, that there is not only one appeal court, with departments in Belgrade, Nis, Kragujevac and Novi Sad, but that special appeals courts are formed in all these places, however, we cannot accept the extension of these deadlines, as planned in the proposals for amending and supplementing the Law on the regulation of courts. As a result, we propose that deadlines remain the same, and that the executive power itself, in accordance with its powers and with the responsibility it carries, as a authority which is required to respect the provisions of the law itself, regardless of whether a party was within the DOS, and was now (not more than within DOS) to create material conditions, especially given that judicial fees were raised by more than 100% in the meantime, that the government provided many foreign donations in the meantime, in a very discriminatory and very problematic manner, because several foreign states, which I know, gave direct donations to courts in our country, which is an absolute negation of the independence of the judiciary and an inadmissible thing, if we want to preserve our statehood and independence of our state judiciary. So, a donation to get justice can go from the donor state to our country, but it must never happen to a thing or the fact that a donation by a foreign state goes directly to our court. For this reason, let the government and the Ministry provide funds to honour the deadlines set by the Court Regulation since November 2001. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23503	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 13th Amendment was submitted in the same text by MP Vojislav Seselj, and together by MPs Jovan Todorovic, Joca Arsic, Milan Jankovic and Toma Busetic. Is the representative of the applicants reporting for a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 14th Amendment were submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj and joint MPs Hranislav Peric, Joca Arsic, Milan Jankovic and Toma Busetic. Is anyone answering for a word about this amendment? There is a word from MP Hranislav Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23504	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a group of SPS MPs tabled an amendment to Article 14. Article 14 provides for an appeal and administrative court to start working on 1 March 2003, instead of 1 October 2002. Why is it so, whether there are more tasks to be completed by your courts under the old law, why delaying the deadline for the start of these courts, why the power of that. The DOS didn't in time provide financial resources for the work of these courts if he was already planning to introduce them?- I'm sorry. There is a promise, when taxes are raised from 10 to 50 times, that they will also be for these purposes. As a result, colleagues Arsic, Jankovic, Busetic and I suggested that Article 14 be deleted and the appeal and administrative court started on 1 October 2002. So to explain to the courts where the money from the high court fees paid by the citizens is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23505	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? Yeah. ) The word has a minister of justice, Mr Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23506	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the fees are not raised from 10 to 50 times, but about four times. That's one thing. Secondly, it is never said, neither in the Law on Court Taxes, nor in budget rebalancing, that construction of buildings, judicial buildings will continue to be financed from court fees. First, it was intended to improve the material position of judicial function holders, and the budget rebalancing is intended to be so for both material costs and specific purposes, but not for infrastructure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23507	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) Members of the 15th Amendment were submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj and joint MPs Hranislav Peric, Joca Arsic, Milan Jankovic and Toma Busetic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Is anyone applying for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the draft law in particular, does the proposing's representative want to give the final word on this agenda point? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on Judges You have adopted a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Milan Marković, Leila Ruždić-Trifunović, Išpanovic Istvan, Vojislav Seselj, Đuro Popović, Dusan Cvetković, Toma Busetic, Dragan Todorovic and Rade Bajic; Jovan Todorović, Joca Arsic, Branko Ružić and Rade Bajic; Rajko Baralić, Joca Arsic and Slobodan Tomović; Rajko Baralić, Joca Arsic, Branko Ružić, Slobodan Tomović, Toma Busetic, Dragan Todorovic and Jovan Todorovic, as well as the Committee for Justice and Administration. National MP Milan Markovic informed, by written notice, that he was withdrawing amendments to which he proposed the addition of Articles 4a and 6a, and at the meeting of the Committee on Justice and Administration, he withdrew the amendment to Article 9. National MP Vojislav Seselj informed, writtenly, that he was withdrawing the amendment to Article 6. You have received reports from the Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee, as well as the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on certain amendments. Since the National Assembly has carried out a common principle of exaggeration under which the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Judges has been discussed, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic submitted to the 1st amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The People's Parliament shall withdraw the amendment to Article 1. It's a bill of law. National MP Vojislav Seselj submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The applicant of the amendment wants a word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23508	Ladies and gentlemen, my amendment refers to Article 2. Proposal for a law on amendments and additions, in fact, to a member of the 21st Law itself. So far, Article 21 has treated the distribution of cases in courts, and it says: "The judge receives cases according to order independent of party personality and circumstances of legal matters. The way the case is distributed shall be governed by the Rules of Procedure. "The government is now complicated by this member, and says: Judges are entrusted on the basis of the court's timetable, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, according to the order set out in advance for each calendar year, exclusively on the basis of the label and the number of cases. "After Article 2, point 3 is added: "No one has the right to educate the court council and assigns the cases beyond the schedule of affairs and order of reception of the case. "I think this is an example of reckless overcrowding and more complicated legal norm. I suggest that Article 2. - Article 21 reads as follows: "The judge takes the cases into work according to the order of reception and seduction of the employer." It's a legal provision. All these other details shall be determined by the Rules of Procedure, and the Rules of Procedure shall not violate this legal provision which is extremely simple and clear. Anything else, you're not going to enter into the law the way you run that court clerk, the executive protocol, why would you? Legal standards should be clear, precise, transparent. As far as this other attitude is concerned, it is understood that something already exists here, I may not mind and that other attitude remains if you would adopt my amendment to the previous position, if you would accept it!
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23509	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment, MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović submitted. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23510	My amendment is just expanding this story that we have received in the draft amending and supplementing the law and predicts that it is stuck behind the point and adds "which are determined according to the time of the court's court's admission or otherwise conveniently, providing respect for the right to a random judge". "Station 2 is deleted. “ I just think that this way is more protected by the right of a random judge; attitude 2 should be deleted because he is then unnecessary, or he prescribes a ban on breaking the law that is already in itself understood.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23511	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) National MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 2a be added after Article 2a. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23512	I forgot to say that amendments 3, 4 and 5 I've submitted, all three, I'm withdrawing.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23513	And this one to Article 2 to add a new Article 2a that you've now got the word for, I apologize.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23514	No, this one on Article 2, I'm not pulling, I'm pulling...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23515	To Article 2a?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23516	I withdraw everything after this amendment that I have explained. I withdraw my amendments 3, 4 and 5 and then I have amendment 6 to Article 7, or after Article 7, I add a new member.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23517	Okay. So, I find that Parliamentarian Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović has withdrawn the amendment to Article 2a of the bill. Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23518	Can I just withdraw this sixth amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23519	You'll pull out, you can tell me when we get to the sixth. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Milan Markovic and joint MPs Dusan Cvetkovic, Toma Busetic, Dragan Todorovic and Rade Bajic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does a representative of the applicants of the amendment want a word? Here you are, People's Messenger Tom Bushetic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23520	Dear colleagues, MPs, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, we have proposed an amendment to Article 3 relating to Article 27. The law and we demand that this member be deleted. Let me remind you of what this is about - Article 3. The bill says: "Extremely, the judge can carry out scientific and professional action with the consent of the President of the Court. "We believe that the judge should not be involved in additional affairs, whether it be scientific or professional affairs. It's simply a prerequisite for judicial independence. After all, judges now have solid salaries of a thousand marks and this is a significantly higher sum than doctors and professors. I think this amendment is consistent and good.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23521	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? The speech is attended by MP Dragan Todorovic, an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23522	The essence of this amendment is that Article 3 is deleted. In fact, we find it really inadmissible for legal holders in their professional lives to deal with other matters with compensation. So, no one can forbid them to do scientific work, to publish their professional texts or any other, but we think it is extremely dangerous to legalise the possibility that a judge can perform scientific and professional activity with compensation and a really very discriminatory provision, with the consent of the President of the Court, as provided for in Article 3. So, what can it lead to? Take, for example, that a judge who judges in a case has certain papers to publish; and, for the printing of that book, he needs a certain level of financial resources, which can in one way or another, or through some friendly links with individuals who, in the amount he needs, are required to publish and in such a way allow the possibility to directly or indirectly, directly or indirectly affect the work of the judiciary and the annulment of the independence of the judiciary and the holders of judicial functions. The essence of our amendment is that such an option is not allowed, that judges, in accordance with the current government's promises to provide sufficient material resources that can guarantee judges a safe and easy life, so that judges are provided, to the extent that they do not have to think about their financial or economic existence or their condition and that such a member, such a possibility provided for in Article 3 of the Judges' Law, is not allowed. We therefore believe that this would compromise all the provisions and the Constitution provided for, on the protection of the independence of judges, and the provisions provided for by the Law on Judges, which speak in this regard.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23523	No more reported for the word on this amendment. National MP Vojislav Seselj submitted to the 3rd amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23524	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 3 is amended by Article 27. The law. The 27th said that: "The judge cannot be in office in bodies that adopt or enforce regulations, be a member of a political party, do any public or private paid work, or provide legal services or advice with compensation. With its duty, other services, jobs and procedures that are contrary to the dignity and independence of the judge or damage to the reputation of the court are incompatible. What actions are contrary to the judge's dignity and independence and damage to the court's reputation is prescribed by the Serbian Supreme Court. "The government is asking to add a new position 2 which would read: "Extremely, the judge can carry out scientific and professional action with the consent of the President of the Court." First of all, I think that this formulation is not good and that it needs to be specified, that the judge can publish his own scientific and professional papers in scientific journals with compensation. So, only your own work. What does it mean he couldn't participate in scientific research projects?- I'm sorry. It's too dangerous already. A scientific research project at a certain institute, a university, who knows what kind of institution, with a number of people and judges of one of the courts as an equal member of the research team. That would not be tolerable from the aspect of the principle of judicial independence. What else couldn't it do? The judge could not teach regularly in colleges, higher schools, high schools, etc., but could give a lecture at Kolarce's National University, at similar institutions. So, an ad hoc lecture on your seeing a certain professional problem or scientific problem, which is considered competent. That's what might be considered and of course it's sometimes with compensation, sometimes not with compensation, not particularly problematic, it's even desirable. It is desirable for each judge to write professional and scientific papers that are processed and their practice, the practice of courts, etc. and it certainly wouldn't have produced any problem in practice. If he participates in a scientific and research project, it's already a much harder case. The question is raised here, and I particularly insist on this in my amendment, the issue of judges' membership in political parties! The law prohibits judges from being members of the political party. What does that mean now?- I'm sorry. That not only can members of parliament, but it is almost understood that they are members of political parties. There is no fence in the legislative authority. Members of the executive authority can be quite free to be members of political parties. I'm not sure this is a question well thought out by the initiator of passing such a law. Whether the ban on membership denies the constitutional rights and freedoms of every citizen, including judges or would be a much better ban, as I request in my amendment, that the judge cannot be a official and prominent political party activist. That makes a lot more sense. At times, judges almost had to be members of the ruling party. That period, of course, has left extremely bad consequences. So he may be a member of the political party, but he can't function within the party, because the judiciary is one branch of power. Political parties are a way of fighting for power and they win supporters, sympathisers and members in all social structures. None of them should be excluded. If it's already a ban somewhere, then it's the military and the police, where there's an armed force, and not where people are as qualified and professional as judges, so that it could lead to a situation to break the law, to be biased and so on. Since the minister has accepted this amendment, there is no need to convince him further.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23525	I find that a representative of the promoter, the minister of justice, has accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Are any of the authorised participants in the debate applying for a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament of People Leila Ruzdic - Trifunović. She withdrew this amendment. I find that amendment has been withdrawn. The 5th Amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. The Committee on Justice and Administration has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23526	How am I getting tired of getting up now that the minister's on his way to accept my amendments? Now I'm not gonna go out for a pay phone. I'm asking ladies and gentlemen to delete Article 5. It's a bill of law. The salaries of the judges must be regulated by the Law of Salaries in the State Authorities and are now regulated. That's why it's pointless to re-regulate the Law on Judges. This is about a member of 32 who says "The basic salary of the Serbian Supreme Court is equal to the basic salary of the Prime Minister. "Of course, we can discuss this with two aspects. First, where is this supposed to be regulated? In my opinion, exclusively the Law on Salaries in State Authorities, that this law should cover salaries in all three branches of government, in the legislative, executive and judicial and to find appropriate criteria, the appropriate levels at which professions and functions would be coordinated within all three branches of government. This is where the government asks that the basic salary of Serbian Supreme Court President cannot be lower than the Prime Minister's basic salary. In my opinion, the President of the Supreme Court cannot even himself out with the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister - not in my opinion, but in the opinion of the theory that has long become a standard widely accepted in theory, the President of the Supreme Court must be equal with the President of the Republic and with the President of the National Assembly. To him, the president of the Republic is in the executive power and president of the National Assembly of the Legislative Authority. What's the matter? The Constitutional Court and the Supreme Court are not courts that are superior to each other or subordinated. Constitutional and Supreme Court are all couples. They're the top of the judiciary together, because they've been given jurisdiction. It is wrong, in my opinion, to share that jurisdiction in the American system she is not divided. There, the Supreme Court also exercises constitutional jurisdiction. Therefore, it determines and acts to determine the non-compliance of the general legal acts with the constitution, nor can you appeal to the Constitutional Court for the Supreme Court's ruling, nor the Supreme Court for the Constitutional Court's ruling. Their judgments are final. The question should therefore be asked in this way: that the President of the Supreme Court has the same salary as the President of the Republic of the National Assembly, and the Prime Minister is at least slightly less than that. Of course, in the parliamentary system, the role of Prime Minister is more important than the role of President of the Republic. The Prime Minister has much more power, influence than the President of the Republic. The President of the Republic, although there are no large responsibilities and powers, is a symbol of the state and is being appointed as one of the branches too large by the executive authorities. In the French system, the President of the Republic can chair government meetings when he attends government meetings and chaires them. That's what we had in our communist system. If the President of the Republic attended a session of the Federal Executive Council, he also chaired it. It didn't happen often, but on several occasions, at least in practice it confirmed what was regulated by the norms. That is the essence of this amendment. Therefore, the basic salary of the President of the Supreme Court shall be equal to the salary of the President of the Republic and of the President of the National Assembly, i.e. three, when they are added to the salary of the President of the Constitutional Court four, so that those four salaries are equalised by the Law on Salaries in the State Authorities without the question being covered by the Law on Judges. This would even the Supreme Court judges by nature things with ministers in the government, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23527	No more reported for the word on this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go. You have six minutes as an applicant for the amendment and head of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23528	You can see I don't use almost never full six minutes. Here is the word - and since such interventions on the very legal text are too short and mostly of a styleable nature or cosmetic - Article 6. The bill is given the right to the High Council of Justice that it can increase up to 20% and the basic salary of other judges, if the judge's office is performed under special conditions! What are the special conditions? What do these special terms mean? A judge's function must take place everywhere and in every place on a regular basis, except in a state of war. There is no reason for such jurisdiction to be left to the High Council of Justice! Nor, in my opinion, the High Council of Justice should deal with this issue at all. In Article 34. The law states: "The investigative judge and judge, who exclusively or mainly acts in criminal matters in the district court, raises the basic salary to 20%, at the height set by the High Council of Justice. "For what? Why would an investigative judge be an exception? If we look at the way our courts work, you'll see that the work of an investigative judge is in principle the most interesting, the easiest. The judge doesn't make any judgments. That's right. If you think they're threatening any external dangers, then the police and the state need to protect them. It can't be based on these external dangers that he gets 20% of his salary, because he has one particular case. Not every investigative judge is in danger. It's rare to be in danger. There are those who are. Look further at the structure of his work: an investigative judge investigates on the basis of a proposal by a public prosecutor; he listens to witnesses; he makes decisions about impeaching witnesses, doesn't write the indictment, doesn't write the verdict. The most sensitive part of the court's work is writing a verdict. That's the hardest part. That judge can pass the exam or fail the exam as a judge. There's no such thing as an investigative judge. He's not at all interested in the final result of the investigation, except that by nature things should be his goal to find out the truth, the whole truth. That truth depends more on the public prosecutor, most of all on the police than on the judge himself?- I'm sorry. Then why make such a difference between judges. That's my question. It says here: "The High Council of Justice can decide that the basic salary in a court where judges can't be filled up to 75%." First of all, let's see, which is a court in which you can't fill the judges' seats. Is there such a judgment? If you emancipate a judicial profession at all, if this profession is adequately paid, there will be no court in Serbia where all the judicial posts cannot be completed. The structure of the courts adapts to the real situation on the ground. You know, you're not in a municipality that has 2,000 inhabitants forming a municipal court, for example, in Black Travis where there are 2,500 inhabitants, but you're going to form a municipal court in Vlasotinc or in Leskovec, so it will cover several municipalities. I don't see what that place is in Serbia where someone wouldn't want to be a judge, and otherwise he wants to do that profession and he has a chance to be elected there! If you have trouble finding judges in some parts of Serbia, offer something else, official apartments for example, not 70% of the salary! Why would they be privileged there?- I'm sorry. The judge's salary for the same job should be the same everywhere. It's exactly the same. We had previous cases, of course, wrongly, but in the opposite direction -- sometimes the salaries in Belgrade were higher than the salaries in the interior, in the state service, with reasons that the cost of living in Belgrade was higher, so all the lambs would come to live and work in Belgrade, not somewhere within. It's only right here that judges of the same level are paid to be identical everywhere.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23529	No more reported for the word on this amendment. National MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic submitted to the 6th amendment. I find that the People's Parliament has withdrawn the amendment to Article 6. National MP Milan Markovic has tabled an amendment proposing that new members of 6a and 6b be added after Article 6. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Markovic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? The word is made by MP Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23530	The Honorable Presidency, respected colleagues and colleagues, is about an amendment that I wanted to point out to a problem that has existed in our judiciary for a long time, and it is about enrolling a person in the lawyer's directory, which can lead to judicial independence being questioned. In fact, we have a situation where a large number of judges for close relatives have lawyers, leading to doubts about making decisions by these judges. The fact is that this may not be the matter of this law, but it's certainly good to deal with this issue, because it's on the trail of another problem that exists in our justice system, which is that there are people who were judges or prosecutors or police officers on the phone yesterday. In many other countries, this issue is resolved in such a way that it is not allowed to enrol in the register of lawyers to people who, because of their function or degree of relatives with legal holders, can in some way affect decision-making and thereby violate the right of those who have come to justice. So I remain with this amendment and this idea that other laws, above all, the Law on Lawyerry, will settle this issue.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23531	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate applying for a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) National MP Milan Markovic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 7a be added after Article 7. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23532	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I think this is a very important amendment. Namely, my amendment proposed the following: "The judge is elected by the National Assembly on a proposal from the High Council of Justice. If the proposed candidate is not elected, the Justice Committee proposes to the National Assembly of another candidate. If that candidate is not elected, the High Judicial Council will announce the election again. "In fact, it is that we can come to a very unpleasant situation, that the High Council of Justice proposes a number of candidates for the holders of judicial functions, and that the National Assembly does not choose those same persons to be the bearers of these functions. It's simply one block that we can go into and that can take four full years. So, the High Council is constantly proposing the same candidates, the National Assembly refuses non-stop. It is now a matter of responsibility, whether it is a responsibility on the High Council of Justice or a responsibility at the National Assembly. Responsibility will likely be passed by legislative authority, but the legislative authority must also have the courage to cut off such a single blockade. It is therefore very important that we, as a National Assembly, obtain the right that belongs to us in the nature of things, for whoever can do more can do less. So when we can choose, we can also suggest in a situation where a regular way of proposing is blocked, so when it comes to that blockade. Please pay attention when there is a vote on this amendment, because it really is very practical things, and at the same time it is not touched in any way by the rights that we have already given by law - that the High Council of Justice has the primary right, exclusive in proposing judges. So it's just that we have to make it possible for ourselves that if there's a blockade, we can sort of prevent that blockade and take responsibility for it. I think it's a much greater responsibility if we don't open up the possibility that tomorrow's judicial blockade might be prevented in some way.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23533	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? The speech is attended by MP Dragan Todorovic, an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23534	Ladies and gentlemen, by accepting a new way of proposing judicial functions, we have accepted a concept that establishes the possibility of the High Council of Justice that, unlike the present system, when practically the Ministry of Justice through the Committee on Justice of the Republic of Serbia has proposed the holders of judicial functions, we believe that this is the way, which, looking forward to the future, creates some fact or some picture that there will eventually be a blockade in the selection of the holders of judicial functions because of the discrepancies between the proposal of the High Council of Justice and the assessment of the National Assembly, whether such candidates deserve to be the holders of judicial functions, therefore, giving up that concept and reopening the possibility that the Committee of Justice, read the Minister of Justice, proposes to be the holder of judicial functions. So it's best to define yourself for one concept or another. Creating some hybrids isn't good. We therefore believe that if we have already accepted such a concept that the High Council of Justice proposes to the National Assembly candidates for the holders of judicial functions, it is not necessary to deviate from this and that, in cooperation with the High Council of Justice and the National Assembly, they seek optimal solutions both when proposing and selecting candidates for a judge.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23535	No more reported for the word on this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 7a be added after Article 7. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is anyone applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) National MP Išpanovich Istvan submitted an amendment proposing that a new Article 7a be added after article 7. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. People's MP Istvan Ispanovich doesn't want a word. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 7a be added after article 7. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Parliament is not present. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He doesn't want to. ) National MP Milan Markovic tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 8a be added after Article 8. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The Committee on Justice and Administration has submitted to Article 9 of the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Are any of the authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Todorovic, Joca Arsic, Branko Ružic and Rade Bajic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is anyone applying for this amendment? The word is made by MP Branko Ruzic, representative of the amendment applicants to Article 9. It's a bill of law.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23536	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my colleagues and I have suggested that Article 9 be changed and that a clearer formulation be made. So, not to say that "work relationship ends", but only to "reduce labour rights", since judges are elected and cannot be accepted as being in a working relationship as a classical form and as a solution practically ends a working relationship. It is logical, then, that only the rights of working relationship cease with the resolution. Also, paragraph 2 reads - the dismissed judge cannot apply for a court or public prosecutor's office's election or an application for appointment as deputy public prosecutor or a judge for violations. We have suggested that this position be deleted, given that the Constitution violates the guaranteed right to work. Of course, for the sake of the public, we are obliged to say that on 18 October 2001, as a parliamentary group of SPS, we have proposed an amendment which, later on, we will see, in one part, accepted, which speaks enough about the subsequent intelligence of the motionor, but I am sure that the subsequent mind of the motion will also be seen through a certain period of time in relation to Article 11 of this legislative proposal and the legal provisions that provide for the lustration of moral-politically inadequate judges, since Article 96. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 5. The Law on Judges clearly determines the immunity of the Judges for the opinion given in the judgment. What we think is that lustration is practically a frustration, both by the promoter and by those who propose such legal provisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23537	Do any of the other authorised participants appear in the debate for a word; please, the word is Dragan Todorovic, a MP from the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23538	Just a reminder, then it was about Article 66(2), where my smallness appears as the signator of an amendment that invalidates the position of the 2nd member. So, on 18 October 2001, an amendment was submitted by the SPS, which represented one logical solution that it could not be prohibited to file an election application to the court or to the public prosecutor's office, or to apply for appointment as deputy public prosecutor, judge for violations and holder of a judicial office, a court-appointed judge, because it was a threat to his Constitution of guaranteed labour rights. The very fact that the parliamentary majority was then deaf to the rational warning and the solution proposed by this amendment, and today after eight months, such a solution is adopted, both as its own or as a proposal from an expert or expert, is in favour of the fact that the SPS is made up of experts and if we remind ourselves of your current TVs that reform in the judiciary means a faster path to Europe, ultimately that fact - who slowed the way to Europe because of the reform of our judiciary?- I'm sorry. Did you, because a year or a year ago or before, you didn't adopt such a provision, or we, who then proposed such a logical solution, and now that you were from the Council of Europe, or who knows who, pressured you to adopt such an amendment, more precisely this amendment and the addition of the Law, you adopt it. So the road to Europe is not only paved by DOS proposals. Take a look at the suggestions that come from other parties. Don't be yourself enough, because always behind our amendments and the bill for amending and supplementing the law is a good will to better regulate the living conditions in all aspects of our society, including in the area of justice. And then, like now, we wanted to create a better environment in the judiciary, and I think you'll have the hearing of our proposed changes. And as for the road to Europe, I hope it won't be so slow, and whether it's through The Hague or through something else, we'll see. But don't interfere with the mind, since we've already been warned about The Hague, the formation of the Permanent Criminal International Court is one of the great moments for international law at all, so don't talk too much about The Hague as about the ad hoc tribunal! We will see that justice that is a permanent category and how much it will be available when it begins to operate on a permanent international criminal court. And, The Hague, it's only temporary and The Hague is just an ad hoc tribunal. There will be a lot of you (responsible for the comments from the O.R.).
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23539	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Milan Markovic has tabled an amendment proposing that new members of 9a and 9b be added after Article 9. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here's a word for Parliamentarian Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23540	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I have submitted an amendment that I would like to establish as an administrative and judicial function in the fullest sense of that word. That's how I anticipated two things with this amendment. It's one thing for the President of the Court to choose the National Assembly on a proposal from the Justice Committee, so he doesn't go on a proposal from the High Council of Justice, but in order not to affect an independent judiciary, I also assumed that this man, the President of the Court, could not judge... Can you calm them down a little bit?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23541	I ask the Members of Parliament to listen with respect and attention to the speakers during the session of the National Assembly, because, in addition to being bound by the Rules of Procedure, this is also an issue of elementary respect for fellow Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23542	It is, therefore, the need for the President of the Court to be solely the holder of administrative and judicial functions and to elect him on a proposal from the Justice Committee to the National Assembly, but that, in order to preserve the independence of the judiciary, he does not have the right to judge during the time of the President of the Court, while performing his administrative office. What motivated me to propose such an amendment is the situation in the judiciary, based on the insight that was done by colleagues involved in Belgrade's lawyership. In addition, I will now present some information from the report on the control of the Second Municipal Court in Belgrade: there are 66 judges in that court, according to systematisation; at the time of the control in that court there were 17 judges. So, of the 66 judges who are supposed to be in their jobs, which is primarily the President of the Court's responsibility, only 17 judges are present. It's the mirror of the state, and that's where responsibility comes in. Today, this responsibility is based on those chosen by the people, which means representatives of the legislative and executive authority that comes out of it. And with a set of laws that we passed a while ago, it is in the sole jurisdiction of the judicial authority itself, or the High Council of Justice. No state, no one can, because no one has the right to take off the burden of responsibility for what's going on in the courts. We, as a legislator, and the executive authority that stems from the legislative authority, should bear that responsibility and not run away from it. We must afford ourselves this right, and at the same time agree to this responsibility to elect the presidents of the courts and to answer for what is happening in these courts. So, if we agreed and adopted this amendment, the President of the Courts would be a purely administrative function. They would be responsible for respecting working time in court, for spending material resources in court, because he also sets up a court secretary, for all that matters in court, when you appear as a citizen or as a lawyer or as anyone else who comes to some work in court. The presidents of the court are responsible for everything. If we accepted this amendment in no way would we interfere with an independent judiciary, as the independent judiciary implies independence of the court, independence of decision on the rights and obligations of citizens. The independence of the judiciary does not mean independence from working time, independence from law, publicity, etc. Please, when you think about this amendment, remember this information that I've brought here, that of 66 people in the court's working time is 17. The same day, in 12 district court cabinets, only one expert associate was found in the district court. It is the state of the Belgrade District Court and the Second Municipal Court in Belgrade. Therefore, I ask you to accept this amendment, we will do one good thing, and nothing is disturbed by what we did six months ago when we passed the Law on Courts. Think again about the situation in the Belgrade judiciary, remember the strike, remember many other things! We have to accept responsibility. It's not worth running from. At the very least, that's why we've been chosen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23543	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) We move on to Article 10 on which the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There's a word from MP Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23544	Ladies and gentlemen, Article 10 refers to Article 67. The law you actually passed in October last year. You here suggest only one cosmetic change in attitude 2. However, I ask that this change essentially. The law states: "When the President of the Court is suspended from office, the President of the High Court shall appoint a judge who shall act as president until the new President of the Court has taken office and for a year at the longest." I suggest that the position reads: "When the President of the Court ceases his duties, he is replaced by the oldest judge in years until the new President of the Court is on duty and for the longest year". This appointment v.d. It's not a good idea, it's not a good idea, it's not a good idea, it's not a good idea. Why? Often the President of the High Court does not know all the judges of the lower court - in some situation it may happen that he does not know either. The President of the High Court has just been elected, and he has come to address the question V.D. in some lower court. Why expose it without need, when it is the most effective way in this interface to carry out this duty by the oldest judge to be found in that court. You see something else - your amendment to the Law refers to Section 2. The law states: "The acting president of the municipal court is appointed by the President of the Court of Appeal", and you are asking for this to be changed, so that it stands "the Court of Appeal in whose territory is the seat of the municipal court". Now, that's where I've been waiting for you. And now we return to the Law on Court Order, in that law in Article 14. - directly senior court, it is said that "the Court of Appeal is directly higher court for the district and municipal court," but in terms of the exercise of judicial office. However, in paragraph 3: "According to the issues of the internal arrangement of courts and the application of the Law on Judges, the Supreme Court for the Municipal Court is a district court," and then Article 67 would have to say that v.d. The President of the District Court is appointed by the President of the District Court. This is a big collapsion here, it can't survive. In the Law on the Regulation of Courts, the Court of Justice is directly senior, on the subject of the internal arrangement of courts and the application of the Law on Judges, to the municipal district. Therefore, it should also be in Article 67(2) to stand - the district court, not the appeals, because, in the case of a judicial organisation, the district court is higher than the municipal court. Of course, all of this would be the simplest way to remove it if you would accept my amendment to which the oldest judge found is doing the job until the election of a new president. It's the simplest thing, it's the automatism. (Employee Milka Marinkovic: That's stupid. It's not stupid, Milka, and now I'm going to explain why it's not stupid. First, if the President of the Municipal Court ceases to act, now he needs the President of the Court of Appeal, or of the District Court, if you correct this colitision, and I hope you will correct it, to make a decision on the appointment of V.D. He can be late, he can be untimely notified, he can be deliberately late, he's on time without need, and he can go through a month, two, three, while he does it. Third, if it's about the elected president of the senior court, it takes time for him to know everything about all the judges, I guess. How is he going to "out of the sky and into the ribs" to appoint the President of the Court, if he knows nothing about that court? Automatism with the oldest judge in terms of acting as president, until the election of a new president, is something everyone counts on, which is understood to be, and if it is the oldest, in such a situation that this job could not be done, there is a possibility that a new president is elected before time, when it is predicted that it will cease its function to the previous president of the court for certain reasons, if it is not some sudden reason, so I suggest you adopt my amendment. If you don't adopt him by accident, I don't know how you're going to solve this collapsing! Are you too late for the government to submit an amendment? In my opinion, it's too late, if that amendment doesn't come out here now, I don't know when you could accept it. That's why it would be best if the minister nodded, to say, he accepted the amendment, he solved this collapsing. If I'd written you these legal projects, this kind of conflict couldn't have happened.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23545	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments to Article 10 were submitted jointly by MPs Rajko Baralić, Joca Arsic, Branko Ružić and Slobodan Tomovic. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? The word is from MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23546	Dear ladies and gentlemen, when the deputy head of the parliamentary group recommends that the debate in particular lasts for three minutes, then it must be kept in mind that DOS MPs always spend six minutes; today Mr. Markovic, the other day Mr. Grubasky. So we're simply asking you to be collegiate. There are amendments that can't be explained in three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23547	National MP Milan Markovic spoke for five minutes and two seconds, not six minutes, MP Grubački five minutes and 15 seconds, and were warned every 30 seconds, as well as other MPs, who violate the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23548	I didn't say they weren't warned, I'm just talking about the practice that exists here. So if it's five minutes, it should be five minutes. In the concept of set of law, the DSS is someone who ran with the intentions I understand, but that's why there are some problems about it, because there's no idea about the whole problem. Therefore, in Article 10, I propose an amendment that is purely technical and editorial. So there's been one mistake, she's more spelling. In order to avoid repeating the word "judgment" in Article 10, which refers to Article 67, Article 2, of the current legal text, it is necessary to implement the proposed correction, and it reads: Article 10, the word "appellate" is added to the word "judgment". Nothing more, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23549	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) National MP Milan Markovic tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 10a be added after article 10. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The applicant wants a word, please, MP Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23550	This amendment is on the trail, i.e. the result of the previous amendment that I have proposed to define the President of the Court as an administrative and judicial function. If we were to adopt this previous amendment and we could discuss this in the following way: therefore, we are responsible for the functioning of the court, not for the trial, and in a situation where, as I said earlier, in one court at 9.30 or at the end of the work hours of 66 judges, only 10 are found, when trials start at 9.30 or 10.30 and when the state invests in 2001 78 million and 624 thousand dinars only in the equipment of the courts, when the judges have a salary of 30,000 dinars, as it is now, and the court does not function in the administrative sense, then we, as authorities, like those elected by the citizens, take responsibility, the Justice Committee takes all these reasons and proposes to the National Assembly discharge of the President of the Court. Simply, this amendment refers to us being able to resolve the President of the Court, as the previous applies to how we can choose to be responsible for the functioning of the court. I repeat once again: this President of the Court does not judge, we take that right away from him so that it does not affect the exercise, that is, the independence of the judiciary as a principle we insist on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23551	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) National MPs Rajko Baralic, Joca Arsic, Branko Ružić, Slobodan Tomovic, Toma Busetic, Dragan Todorovic and Jovan Todorovic together have submitted an amendment suggesting that a new member of 10a be added after article 10a. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does a representative of the applicants of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Toma Bushetic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23552	A group of SPS MPs suggested that Article 10a, which reads as follows: "Article 72 is amended and said: The jury is elected by the National Assembly on a proposal from the High Council of Justice." Before proposing, the High Council of Justice shall obtain the opinion of the court elected by the jury judge. In our legal system, the role, position and importance of the jury judges is evened out with the role, position and importance of the judges, and therefore the procedure for their election must be the same because, otherwise, the equality and equal position of the members of the judicial council are violated. It's the essence of the amendment, it's some solution that was before, and later it's changed, and we think this solution is more meaningful.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23553	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? Yeah. ) Here you are, MP Dragan Todorovic, authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23554	Ladies and gentlemen, since some of the more important provisions of these amendments and the addition of the law on the judicial set of laws are returning to the solutions under the Law on Judges and on the set of judicial laws of 1992, it may be appropriate that the decision we proposed eight months ago, which is that the status of judge and judge of the jury should indeed not be separated in terms of participation in the procedure of the trial, as well as in the procedure of appointment, more precise elections. Because we believe that jury judges should not be elected, rather not be appointed by the High Council of Justice, but should be provided with the same mechanism when electing a jury judge, as well as when electing judges, so that the High Council of Justice, after obtaining the opinion of the jury elected by the jury, proposes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which would ultimately be elected by its powers and in the assembly procedure, to choose and to give confidence or not to give confidence, or to take away the possibility that certain candidates for judges of the jury, would be elected to the post. We think that this is a much better solution than the present one that stands in this law on judges who say that - the High Council of Justice appoints judges to the jury at the proposal of the Minister of Justice and thus puts the judges of the jury in a completely different position than the judges themselves. We believe that this solution is much more comprehensive and we appeal to you that in order to ensure the normal procedure of the proceedings, you have the understanding of this proposal and that you accept our proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23555	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 11th Amendment was submitted by MP Đuro Popović and joint MPs: Rajko Baralić, Joca Arsic, Branko Ružić, Slobodan Tomović, Toma Busetic, Dragan Todorovic and Jovan Todorovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word has the People's MP Đuro Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23556	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, on behalf of the Soviet Parliament group, I have suggested that article 11 be deleted. In the new Article 79a, the solutions are completely contrary to the basic text of the Law on Judges, and therefore this article should be deleted. It shall not be possible to act unwittingly, with a call for the applicable provisions of Article 79. The law, considered also the exercise of judicial authority, ending the electoral will of citizens and violating human rights of citizens. Such behaviours, if determined, are not unconscious in terms of the basic text of the law where consciousness is the delaying of the solution of the case, the failure of the deadlines, but such behaviours are serious crimes. For a violation of the law by the judge, according to the Serbian Criminal Law, the intention to benefit or harm someone must be determined. If there is no intention, then we are on the field of voting to the judge in the performance of the judge's duty, and therefore cannot be answered under the Constitution. From the above, I would like to propose to the People's MPs and the Government of the Republic of Serbia that they adopt the proposed amendment of the Soviet Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23557	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? Yeah. ) The word has been delivered by MP Jovan Todorovic, acting as representative of the applicants for the amendment to Article 11. It's a dead end.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23558	Mrs. Micic, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, even we economists understand that something is wrong with this proposal of article 79a, i.e. by inserting into the text of the law "specific reasons for resolving judges". First of all, a practical question arises, why did the legislator not predict such a solution at the end of last year when this law was also discussed in this assembly and when it was finally adopted?- I'm sorry. Secondly, I don't understand what the special reasons for the resolution mean? In Article 79, there are reasons, and now we say that there are "special" and particular attention is paid to three reasons: the end of electoral will; participation in political and mounted processes; and, a harsh violation of human rights from dishonest initiatives. The question now arises as to how some judge took part in ending the election will of citizens, if due to procedural failures, technical failures by election commissions, election committees or the like, he has ruled on repetitive voting in certain polling stations. Finally, in the near past, I could give you several examples from my community, where the Municipality court in Loznica has just decided to repeat the vote at four parliamentary seats in Loznica, where the winners of the Socialist Party of Serbia's Socialist Party, and in a re-vote in October of the month, DOS candidates won. It would make sense to me that the legislator of this law made a list of judges who participated in the so-called. To end the electoral will, so that only for these judges can we pass the law and resolve them immediately. What is the politically mounted process that has taken place in this country in the past 10 years, take, if you will, and 20 years? Is there a name and name of a man who was convicted in a possible political process by the previous or current government? There is. I could tell you a name and that -- Dragoljub Milanovic, general director of Serbian Radio-Television over the past few years, until the DOS comes to power. This could be a real example of a politically mounted process.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23559	I'm warning you of an overrun of the time allowed.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23560	A large personal council needs, on the proposal of the President of the Court, to make a decision on the resolution... It was also time for my colleague Markovic, I am not opposed to anything, but allow me a few seconds to finish this thought. This is where both the judges and the presidents of the courts are threatened if they do not establish a proposal for the resolution of those judges who allegedly participated in this whole story. It's all you call one word lustration, which isn't really. It's pure rematchism and pure recovery of problems in the past, instead of looking to the future and moving forward. The problems in this country are piled up, you don't solve them, but we keep throwing dust at people's eyes by always and again dealing with the past.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23561	Are you done thinking, MP?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23562	Thanks, I'm done.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23563	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? The speech is attended by MP Dragan Todorovic, an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23564	Ladies and gentlemen, this is a crucial moment why the Socialist Party of Serbia cannot accept this proposal to amend and supplement the law. Namely, as I have already said, lustration at this time and in this form proposed by Article 11. The amendment and addition of the Law on Judges is not acceptable, primarily because it is not in agreement with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and of Article 96, which speaks of the protection of the immunity of the judge and the inability to call the judge to account for an opinion expressed in the performance of the judiciary. Therefore, if any judicial officer in any proceedings, in any case, committed a criminal offence by the judges, it was necessary to initiate his criminal responsibility, to establish his criminal responsibility, and thus to determine whether he was guilty or not. In this case, three conditions for lustration are stated, so (1) participation in the cases of the end of the electoral will of citizens, (2) participation in political and mounted trials, (3), or if, from dishonest initiatives, it harshly violates human rights covered by the Constitution, the law and the international treaty, are indeed not acceptable. First of all, the judges can't end the electoral will of the citizens. With us in Serbia and Yugoslavia, judges under election laws are unable to influence the end of the electoral will. In the United States during the election, the latest presidents, the United States Supreme Court determined whether or not to, and ordered that we should, ban the vote for the election, not to say the problems that had already been present for a good two months; and, the Supreme Court forbade further reading of votes. This is an example of the interference of courts in determining the electoral will of citizens. In Serbia, in Yugoslavia, courts cannot do that. They can only conclude that the procedure in the electoral actions has been violated and elections have been annulled and new elections discussed. It's the only authority of the courts and judges in our country. Accordingly, this first condition is not acceptable. Also, taking part in political and mounted trials, we did not really get adequate information from either the minister, from any speaker by the promoter, for one such argument, and as I said a rude violation of human rights guaranteed by the Constitution and from dishonest initiatives (as if there were honorable initiatives in human rights violations), but the notion of human rights is so wide that if we go into the very definition of human rights, we divide them into economic, social, political, etc. We won't get far. So this member completely violates our country's judicial system and our amendment, that Article 11. The proposal for a law on judges is deleted, it is directed to prevent a great injustice that can be done to justice and to judges, who have only tried by law, for which they are bound by their ethics and by their vocality.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23565	No more reported for the word on this amendment. Reporting on the matter of the Rules of Procedure, deputy president of the DOS parliamentary group, MP Sinisa Mitrovica.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23566	Dear Mrs Micic, fellow MPs, on the basis of Article 81. I propose that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia continue the debate until the discussion of the details is completed. I am convinced that you will support a decision that intensifys the work of the Assembly and benefits our families, the budget and the citizens of Serbia most. Given that we made that decision today in the morning, on the extension of the agenda, I suggest that the Assembly declare this proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23567	I would like to put to the vote the motion of Parliamentarian Sinisha Mitrovica to extend today's work to the end of the debate in particular, by 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 of the agenda. For 105, against 33, the abstentions were not voted by 14, a total of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has made a decision to extend the working time in the debate in details of 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 of the agenda. The Committee on Justice and Administration has submitted to Article 11 of the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible and proposes that it be accepted by the National Assembly. Is anyone applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. The Committee on Justice and Administration has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The amendmentr wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23568	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm really surprised that now, two years after coming to power, you have submitted such an amendment to the Law on Judges. Until last year... Vladan Batic told me just now that after five years, criminal acts of abuse of membership in election committees, abuse of judicial office in ending election results, etc. Why didn't you file criminal charges last year and start chasing all the judges who have evidence that they've ended the election results? There must have been such judges, and in several cases I could have been a witness. Instead of conducting criminal proceedings, so as to result in their resolution, in terms of the judicial function they have performed, you are offering us a new member of the 79 Law. The first point is said: "It is considered that the judge in Article 79, "and Article 79 speaks of judges who were previously elected under the earlier laws of passing this law somewhere in October last year, "uncertainly doing the duty if, by exercising judicial authority or by performing the tasks under which the authorities participated in the cases of the termination of the electoral will of citizens". Everyone was supposed to be in jail for that! I also filed applications for a lot of these judges and complained to the Constitutional Court, filed the most important announcements. So, I didn't do anything secretly. Even, our final performance to the Federal Constitutional Court was on more than 500 densely complex sides of B5 formats with tax-numbered violations of the 1997 and 2000 electoral law, within our constitutional appeal that was rejected. Once we were fined as a party by the Constitutional Court, because we presented a whole series of details, and then qualified them with the strictest words as they deserved. Instead of accepting our constitutional appeal, they fine us. Since you and I are being fined, that's the usual thing for us. It would surprise us to spend a few months without it. Furthermore, it is said - political and mounted trials. Since I have been politically tried several times at mounted trials, I am very interested that all the judges who participated in the installation of political trials are responding. Those who judged and those who forbade books. But to answer in accordance with the law; to plead guilty. And not now to be left to the President of the Court that he assesses whether such a case exists or not. On what basis will he assess? To call him and say, "Did you cut the election results?" He says, "I'm not my mother." Did you install the political processes?- I'm sorry. I'm not my mother! Okay, you're not. Yes, you are! What's the President of the Court gonna say to him? There's got to be an investigation. There's got to be an investigation under all the rules! There's got to be material evidence coming in, hearing witnesses. It's not a simple job, but I'm about for this job to be done, the way the law prescribes it. "Or if he blatantly violated human rights from dishonest initiatives. "Every violation of human rights comes from dishonest initiatives. I don't know in any case that someone violated constitutional rights, human rights in general, from honorable initiatives, that someone was killed by honorable initiatives, that he was arrested, imprisoned, etc. against the Constitution and the law, from honorable initiatives. It doesn't exist! Furthermore, you are bound by this provision for a period of time until the election of judges under the new law. However, I know from practice a whole series of cases of personal experience, judges you chose, under new law, so they violated human rights against the Constitution, against legal norms, etc. I think the unprecedented precedent in the history of the Serbian judiciary is this case, where the Minister of Education has annulled the preparatory act, as if the Constitutional Court had now abolished your draft law, has annulled the preparatory act on my choice for a regular professor and, on two occasions, the Supreme Court has confirmed it. It's just abuse. That's what your parents did. Your judges. Thus, in principle, the courts have not changed much. The only thing that changed was that some of the presidents began to cancel your obedience. That's good. I guess that'll encourage other...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23569	I warn you of exceeding the allowed time
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23570	I'll be done right away. I think you're installing this legal provision here in terms of threats for those who might be opposed to you in the future, and you don't have that much in mind that you're chasing those who have previously sinned against the Constitution and the law, because in practice we see that in many cases such people have also embraced themselves and are now using other things that are also illegal.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23571	No more reported for the word on this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Markovic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) After we have completed the examination of the draft law in particular, the proposing representative is not present to give the final word. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. We move to the fourth item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Seats and Areas of Courts and Public Prosecutors You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted by the MPs: together Miroslav Markicevic, Dragan Kovacevic and Ljubodrag Grbić, Milan Markovic, Leila Ruzdić - Trifunović, Išpanovic Istvan, Vojislav Seselj, together Dragan Marković, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukić and Adam Urosevic, Vladan Radovanović and together Jovan Todorovic, Toma Busetic, Joca Arsić and Rade Bajic. At the meeting of the Committee on Justice and the Management of Amendments to Article 4. The bill was withdrawn by MP Milan Markovic. You have received reports from the Committee of Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee, as an invention of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on certain amendments. Since the National Assembly has conducted a joint principle search, under which the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Seats and Areas of Courts and Public Prosecutors has been discussed, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Vojislav Seselj submitted to the 1st amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23572	I just want to inform the National Assembly and the public that a large number of my amendments concern the issues I've already talked about. So: about courts, about the names of courts, about the structure of courts, especially about appeals courts, etc. I am not going to report on these amendments to the Amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Seats and Areas of Courts and Public Prosecutors for each, but for individual ones only. I think I was obliged to inform the public that these were, therefore, short interventions in the legal text in line with the former pawnage in front of the SRS parliamentary group, that they were abolished by appeals and all other special courts, so that only courts of general jurisdiction remain.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23573	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) National MP Leila Ruzdic - Trifunovic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new article 1a be added after article 1. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. National MP Leila Ruzdic - Trifunović withdraws the amendment to Article 1. National MP Vojislav Seselj submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment, in the same text, MPs Vojislav Seselj and joint MPs Jovan Todorovic, Toma Busetic, Joca Arsic and Rade Bajic submitted. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 4. Rules of Procedure, the Legislative Committee rejected the amendment of MP Vojislav Seselj because of the offensive content of the arguments, which is why this amendment cannot be discussed at the session of the National Assembly. The Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept amendments by MPs Jovan Todorovic, Tome Busetic, Joce Arsic and Rade Bajic. Here's a word from the People's Messenger, Tom Bushetic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23574	Dear fellow MPs, with a group of SPS MPs, I have proposed that Article 3 be deleted. It's about the education of a trade court in Novi Pazar. So, according to the original solution, we had one trade court, when it comes to this one that includes both the King's and the New Market; now it's been divided into two trade courts -- based in the King's and this one in the New Market. I also consider SPS MPs to believe that this is one political agreement, a deal with DOS members, primarily with parties based in Novi Pazar. If it were possible to go with the education of one such trade court and Novi Pazar, then it should certainly form a trade court in Jagodina, Cačka, and perhaps in many other Serbian cities.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23575	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? (People MP Vojislav Seselj reporting for word. ) On the basis of Article 142. Rules 4 and 5. "The Legislative Committee will reject untimely, incompletely and amendments with offensive content, which will be reported to the National Assembly." Item 5. "Refused amendments can't be discussed at the National Assembly session." (Vojislav Seselj: I report for his amendment, not mine. () As president of the parliamentary group? Here you go. You said you wouldn't report for the next amendment. That's how much you keep your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23576	You surprised me now that you rejected my amendment for no reason at all. With my amendment, I asked that Article 3 be completely deleted and that this galatias be prevented in the reconstruction of the seat of trade courts for your political reasons and for the relationship of forces in your coalition. As for my amendment, it reads, "Article 3. The bill is deleted." That's all. You challenged the argument. In the explanation literally, everything I've already said is an explanation of someone else's and similar amendment, and nothing more than a sentence to cost the citizens dearly to that staffed combination of yours. You now, to make your staff out of the field, increase the costs of the state, and not achieve the basic goal that is contained, about the efficiency of the courts. Take a look at the Royal Trade Court, how much jurisdiction it has, how many cities in Serbia extend its jurisdiction: Aleksandrovac, Brus, Varvarin, Vrnjačka Banja, Gornji Milanovac, Kraljno, Kruševac, Lučani, Raška, Trstenik, Čicicovac and Cačak, with the court department in Čačka for the territory of Gornja Milanovac, Lucani and Cačak, and in Novi Pazar for Novi Pazar, Sjenica and Tutin. You know, maybe it was supposed to be the seat of that court in New Pazar, but then it was supposed to be the King's seat, and the Uzice, and the Cachak, and so on, so be the seat there, if you want the seat there! But one trade court to be for three municipalities, and the other for about 10 - 15 municipalities, that's not working. Those criteria you applied in the judicial system are not valid. You have no reason to form a trade court that will only apply to Novi Pazar, Sjenica and Tutin. In addition, you have a trade court that covers almost the entire Woodland, even more than that. It has been extended to Šumadi, Pomoravalje, the Raska region, etc., almost to Herzegovina. If Užice is still Herzegovina, then to Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23577	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) Members of the 3rd amendment, with correction, were jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Adam Urosevic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. The word is made by MP Milos Lukic, representative of the amendment applicants, to Article 3. It's a bill of law.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23578	The Soviet Parliament's group submitted an amendment to Article 3 with the basic idea of setting up a trade court department in Jagodina and that of the Kragujevac Trade Court. I have already presented the reasons for this proposal in principle. However, I would take the opportunity to repeat them again. Jagodina is the headquarters of the Pomorava County. It is an economic, cultural, geographical and in any other way a set of connected municipalities that cooperate with each other and where the largest number of business entities actually operate among themselves, and hence the need to establish the Department of Trade Court in Kragujevac on the territory of Jagodina. The jagodina, as the district seat, owns enough rooms, personnel and other conditions to establish one of these departments. Then, about 40% of the case of the Kragujevac Trade Court is being wasteful on disputes between entities from the area of the strawberry district. We believe there are a number of other reasons why this amendment should be accepted. As I recall, the minister said in his address that he would accept this amendment, and the reasons for this are particularly economical, because many economic operators are, in fact, exposed to huge costs to travel to the Kragujevac to resolve these disputes. In principle, there should be a tendency in the organisation of courts to draw closer to the users of these services. I don't think there's any reason for this amendment not to be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23579	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Miroslav Markicevic, Dragan Kovacevic and Ljubodrag Grbić together submitted the 3rd amendment. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. The word is from the People's Messenger Dragan Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23580	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, our amendment refers to Article 3. I will read: "After point 16, a new point 17 is added, which reads: The Trade Court in Cačka, for the territory of the municipalities of Gornji Milanovac, Ivanjica, Luciani and Cačak. A brief explanation of this amendment: since the Municipality of Cačak, Gornji Milanovac, Luciani and Ivanica make a unique territorial continent, the Moravia County, I think this is extremely logical. That's one very important reason. Another important reason is that there are 4,830 private companies and companies in the Municipality of Cačak and the surrounding area. I think it's very justified and I expect the National Assembly to adopt this amendment. During Minister Batic's stay in Cačka, the minister expressed his readiness to accept our position and to show in part that the National Assembly of Serbia is ready to carry out decentralisation of the government. The Chamber of Commerce in Cacak has all the conditions, both human and spatial, and that would surround one whole, in that system. Another important reason for accepting this amendment is the following - that a city like Cachak did not get an appeal court, I think this is one small compensation. I expect the National Assembly to accept this amendment and make it an integral part of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23581	Since, in the previous debate, the proposing representative has declared that he would, in fact, accept this amendment, although he did not make a precise statement about this one of yours, I suggest we wait for the representative of the promoter who is in the building. (Glass: He accepted. ) This amendment must also be voted upon, since the committees have not accepted it. Do you agree that we're working on it, so if a proposing representative comes in just to ask him if the government accepts this amendment? (Glasses: Let's move on. ) National MP Vladan Radovanovic tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 3a be added after Article 3a. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Please, MP Vladan Radovanovic. I'm sorry. Minister Batic is coming in right now. () Since the minister has arrived, let's see if he accepts the amendment. (Accepting the amendment to Article 3. It's a bill of law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23582	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, I would like to intervene in this proposal of the Law on Seats and Areas, and this ambition is guided by the previous proposal concerning Cachak. I am of the opinion that the Trade Court in Kragujevac, apart from Arangelovac, Lapova, Ratche and Topola, and since it covers the entire territory of Pomorja where we have one rounded continent, six municipalities based in Jagodina, which is also the seat of the district court and the district public prosecutor's office, and given the fact that some 20-22% of all subjects are from So Jagodina territory, and almost half of the territory of Pomorava, and given the fact that this is a relatively remote centre, in light of all the latest developments, transitions, restructuring of the economy, I thought that it was important and on that topic we started to prepare, or expected to come to the agenda of this proposal, i.e. to offer both space and personnel, and at the end of all, we have enough business entities, more than 34,000 at this time, that the first step would be necessary, that the first step, i. Experiences of Jagodina cable factories, Jagodina brewers, Juhora, and Jugo Transport from Jagodina, Popovac cementers and Serbian glass factories from Paracina, as well as the latest experience in the JKP "Standard" on the one hand and "Pomoravanje inženering" on the other, which was decided by the bankruptcy council in Kragujevac, are just confirming the need to adopt such a proposal. After all, the interest of creditors and debtors from the territory of SO Jagodin, and generally from the territory of Pomorava, is to have the seat in Jagodina, i.e. in Pomoravlje. With regard to technical details, on the proposal of counterpart Bosko Ristic, we have sent a proposal to the Ministry of Justice on these technical details - when the distribution of the case will be carried out, when judges will be elected, in which way the budget for this department will be formed and all other persons elected, we leave at will and hope as soon as possible, but in any case I believe that the Ministry of Justice and the Honorary Minister Batic should give the final word on this subject; and also the Committee on Justice and Administration has not rejected this amendment, but has directed it to the Ministry, which means to me that he supports my proposal. Today, we heard the Honorable Minister that he personally believes this is real and that, by respecting reality, we confirm that Serbia is on the right track. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23583	Is anyone else answering for word on this amendment? So you accept the amendment. So, to all; you accept the amendment of MP Vladan Radovanovic to add a new Article 3a after Article 3a. Anybody else answer for a word? Here's a word from MP Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23584	The minister has accepted this amendment, to intervene, but I'm not even sure he knows why. This law provides for 30 district courts and 16 trade courts, which means that this would be on average - the area of two district courts as an area of one trade. Which is not an account in the structure of the district courts and of their territorial schedule when a schedule of economic courts, or trade courts, is being made, as you now call them. That doesn't make any sense at all. All these problems would be solved again if you turned the trade courts into district courts. The new Pazar has the District Court. There may also be a department of trade court in that district court, but so every district court in Serbia, that you do not come to this situation to bid. Now someone has an impact on the minister or government so they can fight for the seat of a trade court in their municipality, someone doesn't, so they can't. Such a big city as Chachak has no seat of a trade court! There are divisions, but there is no judgment; neither is there any Krushec. How do you explain that? Simplest. I think the schedule of district courts is well done, that this structure is good, appropriate to Serbia's real needs. According to that structure of county courts you should have formed trade courts or better yet, to abolish trade courts and to, so far, trade courts are departments of regular district courts.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23585	No more reported for the word on this amendment. Members of the 4th Amendment in the same text were submitted by MPs Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović, Išpanovic Istvan, Vojislav Seselj and joint MPs Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Adam Urosevic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 5th Amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 4. Rules of Procedure, the Legislative Committee rejected the amendment of MP Vojislav Seselj because of the offensive content of the arguments, which is why this amendment cannot be discussed. It is the same situation with the amendment to article 6 submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. The amendment shall also be rejected on the basis of Article 142(4). Rules of Procedure. The Legislative Committee rejected this amendment because of its offensive content, so that it cannot be discussed. Since we have completed a review of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative, Justice Minister Dr Vladan Batic, want to give the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on the High Council of Justice You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Milan Markovic and Vojislav Seselj, together with Toma Busetic, Rajko Baralic, Joca Arsic and Rade Bajic. You have received reports from the Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee, as well as the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on certain amendments. Since the National Assembly has conducted a joint principle search, under which the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the High Council of Justice has been discussed, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Markovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Toma Busetic, Rajko Baralic, Joca Arsic and Rada Bajic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. Is anyone answering for a word about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There's a word from MP Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23586	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I propose this amendment to delete Article 4. Article 4 refers in fact to Article 10. The law. It is about the position of judge and public prosecutor in the High Council of Justice, and it is said: "As long as the High Council of Justice, judge and public prosecutor cannot be proposed to another court or public prosecutor. The prosecutor cannot be sent to another public prosecutor's office, and the judge cannot be transferred to another court." Why are you stopping this now? If you have already established the High Council of Justice, (I think you have misrepresented it and it has been discussed in principle) then you should make sure that it is a relatively permanent body, not an organ subject to permanent fluctuations of personnel, members. Whoever agrees to be elected can't now, after a month, two or a year to change his mind and say, "I'm going somewhere else." It must be a permanent function, a permanent membership in this relatively highest judicial body relating to the very structure of the judiciary. There is indeed the highest organ. And secondly, someone, who is disturbed by the High Council of Justice, the judge or the public prosecutor, can simply, in accordance with other legal provisions, dislocate and thus put them in a position so that they can no longer be members of the High Council of Justice. If some other conditions are not met for their resolution, it should not depend on the will of one to whom they might be disturbed. You know, in some political parties, such a human policy is being conducted -- when someone bothers, when it needs to be removed, then it is formally placed on a higher duty. We have cases like this in government functions -- when someone gets in a lot of trouble, as a minister in one ministry, there is often an elegant solution, so they advance to the Deputy Prime Minister, and someone else gets into his post as a ministry. This now reminds me of your wish. By erasing Article 10, you are actually creating conditions that someone can be removed more elegantly, who disturbs the High Council of Justice.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23587	Has anyone else answered the question about this amendment? There is a word from MP Dragan Todorovic, the mandated representative of the SPS parliamentary group on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23588	Ladies and gentlemen, the essence of the High Council of Justice and the constitution of the High Council of Justice is in its constitutionality, and I think this amendment, which proposes that Article 4 be deleted. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the High Council of Justice is absolutely involved, it should be supported because Article 10 regulates the position of the judge and the public prosecutor while members of the High Council of Justice. If the provisions are deleted -- "Until the High Council of Justice, Judge and Prosecutor may not be proposed in another court or public prosecutor's office," and that "the public prosecutor cannot be referred to another public prosecutor's office and the judge cannot be transferred to another court", opportunities for possible malfeasance or possible pressure on members of the High Council of Justice and the essence of the formation of such a body is lost. That is why we are absolutely in agreement with the amendment of MP Vojislav Seselj, who says that this article 10th on the position of judge and public prosecutor in the High Council of Justice should remain in the form it is. And since I've already started to talk about the very essence of the High Council of Justice, we think it was appropriate that the High Council of Justice, in line with the idea we've already put forward, proposes to the National Assembly and the Deputy Prosecutors and Judges of the jury in order to equalise the treatment of both judges and judges, as well as the deputy public prosecutors and public prosecutors themselves, given the powers and powers they have. This was the essence of the amendments that we were recently denied to give an explanation: and, given that we have stood at the point of view that the High Council of Justice, in the form and form proposed by the initial proposal of the Law on the High Council of Justice, obviously will not be supported by our idea of equating the way of choice and judges and judges of jurors, we appeal to you that this is one bad way to work and to elect judges of jurors and we appeal to you that this proposed article of the 10th that is now in force should remain in force because of the pre-warning of possible malversions, which are potentially related to the transfer of judges and public prosecutors, who are members of the High Council of Justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23589	No more reported for the word on this amendment. The 5th Amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There's a word from MP Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23590	The original legal text envisioned -- in an extended composition of the High Council of Justice not to be a minister of justice and a republican public prosecutor, and now the government is demanding changes and additions to be in an extended composition. Now, what's pointless about this law - first, it becomes permanent and inviting members of the High Council of Justice. Secondly, as prosecutors, lawyers and justice ministers, members of that High Council of Justice, should not and should not be. But as vaguely as it was for the creator of this law, it tells the fact that he's in the narrow system. And why is it that in one state organ, it narrows and expands the composition? It's pointless for a state authority to have its own narrow and wider composition and it shouldn't happen anywhere in any sphere of government. As the creator of this legal text did not take care of the content itself, he predicted that the minister of justice and the prosecutor would be in a close line without being in a wider line. The logic itself says that whoever is in the narrow composition of things by nature must be in the wider composition. The draft amending and supplementing the law, however, satisfies the logic of the matter, but apparently it hated it to deal more deeply with the essence of the Law on High Council of Justice, to move away.. Who wrote - Malinovac? What difference does it make who wrote it, someone from DOS, I guess, Malinovac is DOS, where did he come from? From the DSS? Did you get the DSS kicked out of DOS? Not yet, so DOS is in a broader sense, and DSS in a narrow sense. So is this high advice from the judiciary in a narrow and wider sense. You all voted this out, only then you were in love, and now you're not, but that's your business. From love to hate, it usually only takes one step. I think that this article also shows that this was not seriously done and that it is most important that this law on the High Council of Justice be changed as soon as possible, that the audit be submitted, perhaps completely abolished. The best idea would be for the High Council of Justice to be elected by the Supreme Court judges, for all judges in the joint session to participate in their election and that is the only objective way.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23591	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, and the proposer's representative, the minister of justice is not present, so he does not want to give the final word, I conclude the search of the Bill's proposal in particular. We move to the 6th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on Public Prosecution You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Milan Marković, Sinisa Mitrović, Vojislav Seselj; together Zoran Anđeković, Toma Busetic and Ljubisa Maravic; jointly Zoran Andrović, Toma Busetic, Ljubisa Maravić and Rajko Baralić; together Zoran Andjelković, Toma Busetic, Hranislav Perić and Dusan Cvetkovic; jointly Jovan Todorovic, Toma Busetic, Branko Ružić and Rade Bajic; and, together, Jovan Todorovic, Milos Nešović, Branko Ružić and Rade Bajic; as well as the Committee for Justice and Administration. You have received reports from the Justice and Administration Committee, as well as the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has conducted a joint principle search, under which the draft law amending and supplementing the Public Prosecutor's Law has been discussed, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Vojislav Seselj submitted to the 3rd amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23592	I suggest in these six minutes that I explain a few of my amendments so I don't come back for a word because they're all very short on content, if you don't mind, that I don't answer afterwards.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23593	I don't mind, six minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23594	You see, I'm asking for Article 20 to delete the position that says, "The district attorney at the head office of a trade court and before a trade court," because in principle, I'm in favour of abolishing trade courts. If they were all courts of general jurisdiction, then it would be understood, and this is how much confusion is made that everything has to be emphasized, sometimes something gets out of hand, and sometimes something is completely dropped. For the same reason I am against keeping a personal list of each judge, for the same reason I am against keeping a personal list, or a personal record for a public prosecutor, deputy public prosecutors and public prosecutor. This is contrary to the Law on Labour in State Authorities and one type of these files is in the exclusive jurisdiction of the Ministry of Interior, but the files of another kind. Here, first of all, it's possible to keep only personal files as for all other employees, otherwise you'll have to change a whole series of other laws! Furthermore, I ask that the public prosecutor's office, the deputy public prosecutor, be permanent and that he may cease only under the conditions provided for by the law; therefore, I disagree here with the interventions of the creators of the laws on changes and additions to the government. Then, I ask that members of the political party be treated as judges and judges; the minister of justice has accepted that judges can be members of political parties, but cannot be officials and prominent activities. So is this provision that regulates the work of prosecutors. Now membership in the political party is excluded, but if the judge can do so, the prosecutor can, with the fact that he cannot be a functioner and cannot be a prominent activist. Therefore, it should not appear on behalf of the political party in public, in newspapers, on radio and television, etc. If a member, you know, might not be bad or the idea that they can't be members of political parties, but that idea needs to be implemented through certain institutions and legislative and executive authorities. On the other hand, if he cannot be a member of a political party, how can he be a member of NGOs such as the Association of Judges, the Association of Prosecutors, the Society of Judges, etc! That's a question. As for the public prosecutor's salary and the deputy attorney, I treat it the same way as the judges' salaries on which I explained my amendments in detail, with, for example, the Republic Public Prosecutor being unable to be in the same status as the President of the Supreme Court, but he could have somewhat lower status in terms of salary, for example, to make the difference between the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister. He must not therefore be equal to the President of the Supreme Court, but he must not be far below his rank; a solution must be found to have a rank almost as Supreme Court President, but not entirely. I'm asking the Attorney General and the Deputy Attorney General to appoint a Republic Public Prosecutor, not how it was formulated. As for the conditions for selecting a public prosecutor and deputy public prosecutor, I ask that they meet the general conditions for working in state authorities, completed law school, passed a judicial exam and an average assessment at the law school above eight. As far as the election announcement is concerned, the Republic Public Prosecutor should publish it, not as it's supposed to be here. I've already advocated not being a public prosecutor for the High Council of Justice; by nature things shouldn't interfere with that jurisdiction. I'm looking here to correct the text to delete several members that don't make much sense. That would be essential; these are essentially all my amendments and they were, therefore, done in parallel with interventions to the Law on Court Order and the Law on Judges. Those principles that the SRS stands for in the area of the judiciary, i.e. courts, are identical with the principles that we stand for in the prosecutor's field. The prosecution is an authority within the judicial branch of the government, but it must be strictly separate from the courts and all these artificial links that have been made with various laws, especially the Law on the High Council of Justice, should be abolished as soon as possible, as well as the public prosecutor's relationship with the executive authority, especially the Ministry of Justice. You can accept these amendments, and you can not accept them, and if you accept amendments relating to the regulation of the courts and the Law on Judges, then by nature things will have to be accepted by these amendments. If you do not accept those essential amendments, which relate to the regulation of courts and the Law on Judges, then it would probably make no sense to accept even those relating to the public prosecutor's office.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23595	Is there anyone else applying to this amendment for a word from the authorised participants in the debate? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. The applicant for the amendment has already explained it. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Angelkovic, Toma Busetic and Ljubisa Maravic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. Does a representative of the applicants of the amendment want a word? The word has been made by MP Zoran Angelkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23596	Ladies and gentlemen, to article four, just a few brief interventions. Of course, when it comes to eradicating the need for nationality, it is understood that the definition of national or religious membership should not stand because it is a personal statement. If a personal list is already being kept, then it is necessary to know the exact fact, starting of course from the fact that the document is protected, that it is an official secret and that it does not violate privacy guaranteed by members 18 and 20. The Constitution of the Republic. It is important to know blood relatives in the front line, who are related to the judiciary, so that there is no concentration of relevant cases, especially the conflict between the fact that some cases, which are on the one hand, are related to those who are prosecutors, and on the other hand in the judiciary itself, when it comes to judges or lawyers. That's when it comes to Article 4, and that's why we think it should stand, if you're already running a personal list. When it comes to Article 6 concerning the right of the Minister of Justice to resolve, in fact, that is to say. Away from the republican public prosecutor and send him to another location, in fact, the minstar, not because of the minister, but because of the fact that the executive power is in this way directly mixed in the position of the judiciary, thus creating the possibility that the fact that the executive authority can press the republican public prosecutor over and over again, because it depends on the minister, whether it will use its position and find the reason for its resolution, namely, the distance of the republican public prosecutor, and for these reasons it should also remain in the jurisdiction of the High Council of Justice, and that its deployment cannot be affected by the minister of justice, regardless of what he was called, who was, etc., because one significant conflict is created between the executive authority and the judicial authority. The last amendment is on Article 8. - to be deleted; regarding the possibility of allowing public prosecutors and deputies to carry out scientific and professional work, with cash and other compensation. One thing is the economic position of the prosecutor, the state must provide an adequate monetary position, but another thing is that it can happen that the public prosecutor and deputy public prosecutor at a private university or a private scientific institution is working, and that it depends effectively on the owner of that private institution, thereby bringing himself into an awkward situation or collapsing that, if he accidentally receives one such item, he can be completely disqualified and guide him in the right way. For these reasons, we think we should delete that member, and solve the economic situation by adequate rewarding people who are engaged in these places and jobs.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23597	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. The applicant for the amendment is not present. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Sinisa Mitrovic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 6a be added after article 6. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Zoran Angelkovic, Toma Busetic, Ljubisa Maravic and Rajko Baralic together have submitted an amendment suggesting that new members of 6a and 6b be added after Article 6. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. Is anyone applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) It was explained by MP Zoran Angelkovic. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. The applicant for the amendment is not present. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment in the same text, MPs Milan Markovic and together Zoran Angelkovic, Toma Busetic, Hranislav Peric and Dusan Cvetkovic submitted. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted this amendment. Is anyone applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by the Committee on Justice and Administration. Does any of the authorised participants report on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. The applicant for the amendment is not present. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. The applicant for the amendment is not present. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. The applicant for the amendment is not present. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. The applicant for the amendment is not present. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Markovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted this amendment. The applicant for the amendment is not present. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. The applicant for the amendment is not present. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. The applicant for the amendment is not present. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. The applicant for the amendment is not present. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Vojislav Seselj and Jovan Todorovic, Toma Busetic, Branko Ružic and Rade Bajic submitted to the 15th amendment in the same text. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. Is anyone applying for this amendment? The word is made by MP Rada Bajic, representative of the amendment applicants to Article 15.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23598	The Honorable Presidency, fellow MPs, on article 15 with a group of Socialist Party of Serbia MPs, has submitted an amendment, and that Article 62 and title are deleted, otherwise, concerns a member of the 62nd existing Law. The reservation, very briefly, given that the choice of public prosecutors and their deputies is governed by Article 56 of the existing Law and there is no need for a member of 62th to exist and also a note that it is a member of 10. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office is scheduled to amend Article 56, and we asked it in November last year to equalise the position of the public prosecutor and his deputy, which indirectly accepted this amendment, and I think the minister will accept that Article 62 is deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23599	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate applying for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Markovic. The government and the Justice Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Is anyone else applying for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Vojislav Seselj. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. The applicant for the amendment is not present. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Vojislav Seselj. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. The applicant for the amendment is not present. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Vojislav Seselj. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. The applicant for the amendment is not present. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Vojislav Seselj. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. The applicant for the amendment is not present. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Markovic. The government and the Justice Committee have adopted this amendment. We don't have a report from the Legislative Committee; it will be soon. Is this amendment being applied for, since it did not become an integral part of the bill, because we do not have a report from the Legislative Committee? Nobody wants a word. ) The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Todorovic, Milos Nesovic, Branko Ružic and Rade Bajic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. Do any of the applicants of the amendment want a word? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23600	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is about the need for a clearer determination of attitude 1 where it is said that the working relationship ends with the resolution of the public prosecutor. In our amendment, we suggested that it be specified that only labour rights stop, since the elected public prosecutor cannot be put in a position to end his employment relationship with the resolution itself. Also, Article 2 which is mentioned in earlier provisions of this law, and we have suggested that it be deleted, given that it is threatened by the Constitution and guaranteed the right to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-15-0.u23601	Is anyone else answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Vojislav Seselj. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. The applicant for the amendment is not present. Is anyone else raving for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Vojislav Seselj. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. The applicant for the amendment is not present. Is anyone else raving for a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want to give the final statement? No, I don't. I thank you. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have carried out a search of the bill, in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue our work tomorrow. Just a brief notice: The 41st session of the Legislative Committee will be held on Tuesday, 16 July, at 9 pm in Hall I on the ground floor. Bon appétit, ladies and gentlemen. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the Fifth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, there are 137 MPs present today, and I ask you to insert your identification cards into the MPs to determine the quorum. I find that the application of the electronic system has established that we have a quorum and we can continue our work. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Zaharija Trnavcevic, Jelena Milenkovic-Orlić, Milos Radivojčević, Aleksandar Stefanović, Juhas Atila and Dragan Kovacevic; Dragisa Marinkovic; this morning. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. Also, according to members 83 and 84. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that I invited representatives of the Centre for Free Elections and Democracy, the National Movement "Resist", the National Democratic Institute, the Association of University Professors and Teachers of Serbia - the Section of "Colubar" and USAID to this session. I welcome the guests present. We move on to the 8th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a DECISION ON THE EDUCATION OF THE ANKETAL COMMISSION OF THE NATIONAL COMMUNITY OF SERBIA FOR THE CONSOLIDATION OF THE COUNTRY AND THE CONSTITUTION OF THE EXISTANCE OR THE DISGUISE OF THE SERVANTS OF THE SERVANT COUNTRY OF THE MOST COUNTRY OF THE COUNTRY OF THE COUNTRY OF THE COUNTRY AND OF THE NON-CONTAINED COUNTRY OF THE SERVANTS OF THE COUNTRY You have received amendments submitted by MPs: together with Rajko Baralić and Branko Ružić, together Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Adam Urosevic, as well as Cedomir Jovanovic, whose amendments have become an integral part of the proposal for a decision. I remind you, according to Article 156(3) and Article 90 respectively. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for the parliamentary groups, is 5 hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs that the parliamentary group has. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a series of MPs who want to talk about this item on the agenda. Consent to Article 156. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Does the promoter, MP Cedomir Jovanovic, want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
