ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u20909	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is pointless to participate in a debate on two very important laws, such as basic and high school laws, when it is limited to the right of MPs to discuss and explain their amendments for just three minutes. The SRS was forced to hold a public class, with an hour and a half duration, and that will be Friday 26th of this month in Vrsac, where we will hold a large national rally of the SRS. (President: Please speak of your amendment, as time is limited to three minutes. ) For this reason, if nothing else, it was necessary to read the scientific works of Jan Komenski, the scientific works of Makarenko, and then engage in reform, which is now not like reform. This is not a reform, this is a forced administration and a temporary measure in relation to education in the Republic of Serbia. As a result, the SRS believes that this law is not good, that it is only temporary and that the next government, in the next soon-to-be elections, will have to change it urgently.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u20910	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u20911	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS has objected to the language of Article 2. A bill of law and something that should be removed. True, by accepting the amendments of another parliamentary group, the promoter admitted that it was an old language, perhaps even Austrian, which he applied here, but I think that made it an even bigger entanglement without removing the doubt that the law would have been adopted in the original text. In fact, the promoter predicted that Article 13 would change and that one part of it would read: "The Ministry of Education shall exercise administrative supervision by estimating the quality of the work of the school, or the home of the students". We have suggested that this reads: "The Ministry of Education conducts professional - pedagogical supervision by insulting the quality of the work of teachers, professional associates and educators at school, or home of students". To formulate a legal project so that the Ministry will value the quality of the school's work looks like a conversation between parents and children, when the child comes from school and the father asks him - how is the school, and he says - well, he doesn't move. How will the Ministry of Education value the quality of the school's work? What's a school - classrooms, sanitary rooms, cabinets? I guess the Ministry values how teachers, educators work in that school, and whether the value of the school will be expressed through its financial value. It's not the quality of school. What's the quality of school? It's the quality of teaching, it's the quality of working with children, the quality of education. How are high-quality schools? Do parents have the right to decide that they will, to send a child to school first, second or third quality? The amendment you accepted says you will value both the quality of school work and the quality of teacher work. Well, it really won't look like anything else. I recommend that you accept this amendment. I admit that the Ministry of Education should supervise, but over what teachers, educators and staff are doing at school.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u20912	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 46, there are no 113 abstentions, no 18 vote, out of 177 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was submitted by Parliament member Gordana Pop-Lazic. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Is anyone applying for this amendment? Please, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group, MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u20913	In Article 3, which is added to the new Article 13a, we have provided for the erasure of points 4). It would read like this - in overseeing the legality of the school's work, the Ministry of Education is launching an initiative for a different regulation of the law of regulated relations. One general formulation, a bit pointless, which is not known whether it is now the right or obligation of the Ministry of Education, or whether the Minister of Education will be responsible if the ministry does not launch some initiative to regulate the law of regulated relations. What does that mean? You know who's running the law-relation initiatives. This can be done by any MP, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, by a number of voters, and by now giving the Ministry a warrant or a commitment or advice, I don't know how to interpret this measure and this provision, to initiate an initiative to regulate something regulated by law in another way, so I guess that's the obligation of every serious minister and every serious ministry. Everything about elementary school has been regulated by other laws, which the minister thinks is not well regulated, he will propose to the government to change it, it goes to the government's committees, is settled in the Secretariat for legislation, and if the government misses it, it comes before the National Assembly. It was arranged by the Government's Rules of Procedure, and I don't know why to put such a provision into one of the elementary school laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u20914	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 48, there are none against 117 abstentions, 12 did not vote, out of 177 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojana Alexic, Vladimir Andric, Marina Stamenkovic, Milan Radulovic and Nenad Lemajic. The Government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Boyana Aleksic, a representative of the amendment's applicants.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u20915	Article 4 lists the tasks of the inspection control, i.e. the duties of an educational inspector performing inspection. According to the Law on Local Self-Government, inspection supervision has passed from the Ministry of Education, or from the Republic level to local self-government, as a trusted business. That's exactly what a member of 2nd regularized here, as well as some other jobs that have moved on to the municipality. That is why we believe that the school space is something that is within the jurisdiction of local self-government; it was even according to the old law, and there was a illogicality, that the founder of the school is the Republic and that the Republic is in charge of schools at all, and that the school space itself is something that local self-government is in charge of. Now this member's getting a little bit in line. And it is finally an opportunity for this local self-government, among other things, to deal with the issue of school space. Why? We have a situation on the ground over all these years, and today it is present in some schools, that the school space is non-intentional, that there is a gray economy present, that physical halls are issued, various cabinets, equipment, etc., that private persons are issued for cash, that no contracts are concluded, and that this cash is then used is not known to be, or there is a high probability that this cash goes into someone's pockets. It's something that needs to be prevented because children have no use for it. If there are already conditions in some schools that there is extra school space and that it is possible to issue that school space, then that school space should be issued by making a contract, making that money go to the school’s giro account, which the municipality as a competent authority will control where and how these funds go and that these funds will then be used for what will bring the school, or the students some improvement, and not to use it to build houses, buy cars and so forth. And while I was in the ministry, I was extremely insistent on it, and I think it's one of the biggest problems in school right now. The issue is also related to the selection of directors, because unfortunately there have been directors before, and there are today, who have abused their official position in this regard. And we're going to talk about it in some of the amendments that we've just submitted to the director's election, but for now, here's what I'm going to read to make it sound like to us, I think it's totally in place.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u20916	Excuse me, do you want to use three minutes as an authorised representative?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u20917	Yeah, I'm using this second time. So, the Educational Inspector - among other things, point 2) - takes note of the dedicated use of the funds available to the school and oversees the legality of the conclusion and cancellation of the lease or use of the school space contract, as well as the legality of the implementation of the extended school's activities. That would be our amendment, it will appear later in the Director's discharge clause and we think it is necessary to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u20918	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? Minister of Education Mr. Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u20919	The promoter is of the opinion that the formulation entered into in the bill is sufficiently comprehensive to include this as well. But the other thing is also, these are activities outside the education ministry's jurisdiction, because they are entering into the works of the Republic Property Directorate, so it's a problem of disseminating jurisdiction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u20920	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 31, against 120, the abstentions were not voted 26, out of 177 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic, Milos Lukic, Petar Petrovic and Adam Urosevic. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here's a word from MP Petar Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u20921	The Honored Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SSJ Parliament Club has submitted an amendment to Article 5, and it reads to delete the words "or for the school secretary" in the first indent at the same time and to delete the full indent 2. If you look closely at Article 4 and you see what is in the jurisdiction of the Educational Inspector, we do not understand that someone other than a graduate lawyer with a certain examination can exercise control of the lawfulness of acts, law enforcement, etc. Therefore, we believe that it is celibate to remain that these jobs can only be done by a graduate lawyer, normally as it says in the law, with a passed exam and with such a working experience. It is not clear to the Assembly Club whether it is the Ministry of Education that introduces a new exam that a graduate lawyer must pass in order to be able to perform the tasks of the school secretary. We are particularly surprised that such a proposal comes from the Ministry whose head is the regular professor of Law School. Does this mean that only graduate lawyers need to take special exams the next day for any function they need to perform, say, if they are to be secretaries in a company, etc. For these reasons, we think it is necessary to accept this amendment because it does not disrupt the integrity of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u20922	Thank you. Does anyone else sign up for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 26, against 121 abstentions, 29 of the 178 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Stankovic. The Government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Milan Stankovic, the applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u20923	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, members of the 5th is governed by who can carry out the duties of an educational inspection. It is said in point 1 that graduate lawyers can do so with a professional examination for the work of the authorities of the state administration or for the school secretary and at least three years of work experience. It is said in point 2 that these tasks can also be carried out by a person with adequate professional training, by a professional examination in the field of education and by working in the authorities of the state administration and at least five years of work experience. The amendment I have made in front of the SPS parliamentary group refers to paragraph 1. If you have listened carefully, you have seen that there is a discrepancy between the number of years it takes to carry out these jobs between graduate lawyers and a person with the right expertise - the first takes at least three years of work experience and the other five. With the amendment, we tried to equalize the years needed to carry out these jobs, so we suggested that it took five years of work experience to carry out inspection tasks. The government's reasoning is quite interesting and it says that five years of work experience as a condition for doing these jobs is not a guarantee that a person with five years of working experience, or an internship, will do better tasks of an educational inspector. That's one explanation. Second, the proposed solution gives employment opportunities to young professionals. If so, it will later be on the agenda and legislation of cultural goods, where the government has proposed that for the affairs of inspections, in this law on cultural goods, the least working experience is eight years. We've proposed an amendment for five years. It would be interesting for the government to explain how in one case there is one criterion and one explanation, and in other cases, as this one, there is a completely different explanation that does not stand on such a safe foot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u20924	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Here's a word from MP Vladimir Garčević, authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u20925	The Honorable Presidency, given that the person conducting the inspection, our education inspections were not unknown until 1992 since there was an inspection at the municipality level. In terms of the personnel structure, it was similar; it was able to perform this work with ten years of work experience. Our view is this - if someone to become a director is to have five years of work experience, we think that a person who has to carry out surveillance at least should have five years of work experience. As for reasons of youth employment, I think that young people should work on other jobs and prepare them for a particular occupation, i.e. a particular workaround. It was also clear about this in the previous amendment, that the part that is related to the state administration must be laid down, so anyone who does this job needs to be passed. I think that if we want one equation, for certain jobs, for those who exercise control, we need to accept five years of work experience. I don't see any reason not to accept that.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u20926	Thank you. Does anyone else sign up for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 37, against 124 abstentions, there was no vote of 19, out of 180 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were submitted jointly by MPs Bojana Aleksic, Vladimir Andric, Marina Stamenkovic, Milan Radulovic and Nenad Lemajic to Article 6. The government and the Education Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legal, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Here is the word of the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u20927	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't think it should be easy to go over the amendments to Article 6 that we Serbian radicals have proposed, because they are incurring several topics and relations concerning many members of this bill. First of all, we have suggested in several members that you do not accept the amendment that you have accepted and that you do not value the quality of work of the school, but that you value people. You refuse, and I will not explain that part of our amendment. There's something that I'm paying attention to and that should be regulated because further members around it are going to break a spear, which is a religious teaching. The bill promoter thought that religious teaching was not covered by article 6 concerning the description of jobs, rights and duties and the obligation of an educational counselor. But it's also about how. It is evident that in many cases MPs in the Serbian Parliament disagree. Veronauk is one spear that breaks here. One's absolutely against it, one's for it to be academic, and one's for it to be mandatory. And I'm up for whatever it is to be governed by the law. However much we resolve today, we must not leave without any control or control. However, how do we regulate this, if Article 17 provides for the job of an educational counselor to be able to carry out a person with a suitable high professional training and five years of work experience in the field of education. I'm asking you, who's going to be an education counselor for religious teaching, who's going to control the quality of work, you say school again, and I say religious teacher. Who will propose measures against teachers for religious teaching, as suggested by measures against teachers for Serbian language or biology. We have proposed several amendments, i.e. the addition of this member of the bill. First, an educational counselor for religious teaching is introduced. It is obvious that none of the educational advisors so far, nor under the conditions that you have prescribed for an educational counselor under this bill, will be able to control the quality of the work of religious teaching. It's an object that will be just as important, as valuable and must be as controlled, just like all the other items in the school program. Furthermore, with the guidance counselor himself, regardless of whether he is a counsellor for religious teaching or an educational counselor as you imagine him, we have foreseen that he be the person who will propose measures to the school director, which are later provided for in Article 73 of Article 1 of the basic law, i.e. Article 15 of the amendment and supplementation. We come to the situation that the Director himself assesses whether the teacher, professional associate or educator has achieved or has failed to achieve the curricula and the programme, since he is the only one who is competent to take measures and to temporarily, until the end of the disciplinary procedure, away from such a teacher who, in his opinion, does not meet the conditions laid down in Article 73. We say - let the guidance counselor suggest this to him, if the guidance counselor can give the minister an epiphany (paragraph 2 point 6) to propose measures, and you here say "and to the competent authorities to take measures to remove irregularities", but that is not exactly a defined measure, to propose to the school director to keep someone away from teaching. It's not removing irregularities, it's the fate of one man, moving away from class. When a disciplinary procedure is conducted, if his guilt is proven, he loses his job. Do not let the school director be the only filter that will decide which teacher is satisfying, which teacher does not satisfy. Make it two filters - one is the Ministry of Education. You say the Ministry won't change teachers. Well, he won't, but whoever has been authorized by the Ministry will propose to the Director, because he's a professional, and he'll say, director, this man doesn't meet the requirements of Article 73, I'm attending his teaching, he's not processing the teaching unit, he's not coming to class (but, what are the conditions), I suggest you, I don't suggest, I suggest you take the disciplinary procedure and suspend him, or you take him away from teaching during the course of discipline. That would take a lot of things away. I'm warning you once again, we're going to talk more about religious teaching, that someone has to control the work of teachers of religious teaching, the sea. When I say someone, I don't mean the representatives of the religious community he represents by teaching. I mean the state, the state has to control what's done there. It is not the time excluded from the legal, educational and public system of this country. That class is a school class, and every school class is under state control.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u20928	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? There's a word from the minister of education and sports, Mr. Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u20929	The proposal is that, if the Assembly adopts the law and if religious science enters the educational system, it will be an object that will be on the same level as everyone else. Since we don't have an educational counselor for Serbian and mathematics, we don't even have a religion. So it's all done by one person, and it's philosophy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u20930	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 50, against 111 abstentions, there were no 23 votes, out of 184 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojana Alexic, Vladimir Andric, Marina Stamenkovic, Milan Radulovic and Nenad Lemajic. The government and the Education Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Išpanovich Istvan. The Government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 7, against 132 abstentions, there was no 48 vote, out of 187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 8th amendment. The Government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Do any of the authorized participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 49, against 112 abstentions, there were no 25 votes, out of 186 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 8. The amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Bojana Alexic, Vladimir Andric, Marina Stamenkovic, Milan Radulovic and Nenad Lemajic. The government and the Education Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. To Article 9. The amendment was submitted by MP Hranislav Peric. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There is a word from MP Hranislav Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u20931	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have suggested that article 9 be deleted, because I believe that the question of religion is resolved in constitutional provisions. The introduction of religion into school, therefore, is the opposite of the Constitution. Since the church is separate from the state, it has the opportunity to organise religious schools on its own, not in the proposed way. Our position as a socialist is that we are not against religious science, but that religiousism is organized in church rooms, because religiousism is also a place in church. We also do not support the proposed solution, that the curricula and the programme of religious teaching are agreed by the minister of education and the minister of religion. We suggest that everything related to religious teaching, from programme to textbook, is brought by the minister of religion and that the teaching takes place in the church. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u20932	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 37, against 115, the abstentions were not voted 35, out of 187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 9. The amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Rodoljub Sabic, Vlatko Sekulovic and Branko Pavlovic. The Government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Rodoljub Sabic, representative of the amendment applicants to Article 9. It's a bill of law.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u20933	Dear ladies and gentlemen, our amendment to Article 9 refers in a specific case to the position, according to the legislator of the law, of traditional churches and religious communities, regarding the impact on the creation of a curricula and programmes. However, in essence, we have this amendment, and later on with a series of amendments, we are inferring that one, in our opinion, is a fluid and undefined standard, which may result in a violation of the rights of some religious communities. One word, when we say traditional, we don't really define anything clearly and precisely. We're starting from the fact that it's not even possible in the oatmeal to reach a close consensus on what religious communities are traditional, which are not, of the few tenths that work here. And also -- do we have a very clear idea of whether, let's say, we're going to mention one of the small religious communities, which enjoys the status of traditional here, to be wrong about the rights of some in the world of the great religious community, whose religious learning and ritual are no different than that of which we recognize our status. For example, do we know how much is measured and whether, say, the Evangelical Church is different from the Baptist Church, which is great in the world, which nobody mentions in us. But aside from that, the problem is even more complex. In our opinion, any intervention by the state in relation to the recognition and determination of the status of the religious community is contrary to the principle which appears to be dominant in the world, which is the principle of self-determination of the religious community. Therefore, religious communities and churches are not confirmed as social institutions or as sects based on the fact that we recognize them or do not recognize them. They are confirmed as churches if they become social institutions by their actions, and as sects if they act as an associative and contrary to social principles and laws. What we're trying to say -- we're afraid that by introducing the term "traditional", with the idea of sorting things out, we can actually lead to situations where we can insult some of the rights of some religious communities and believers. It may be a rough allegory, but I really must say that the principle of secular state does not just mean the non-mixing of the church in state affairs, but it also means the non-mixing of the state in church affairs. It's a rough allegory, but I'll say, we go back 2,000 years, we go back to one of the most remarkable events in the history of mankind, so we go back to the moment when someone crucified Jesus Christ. What do you think the day-to-day political arguments and resolutions were sought by this team of people who did so? Was that faith bad? Did that science call for hatred? Did he have any followers? No, I don't. But that faith was neither recognized nor traditional. We, gentlemen, invite you to reconsider.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u20934	Thank you. Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate applying for a word? Here's a word from MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u20935	I could accept the previous discussion, that it was based solely on legal arguments. Indeed, the legislator should have had the constitutional provisions in mind, and the constitutional decree is a religious community. Article 41, paragraphs 2 and 3, treats only religious communities, and in that sense, the law may be quite clear, even if it were written by self-religious communities, and then specified by the position of 2 or 3 or new which religious communities will have their teachers and which will be able to teach our children religious instruction. I belong to the Serbian Orthodox Church, I belong to the Christian church, and I know that it will always be able to fight in the Serbian people not to dominate, but to be influential. It's our church. I'm not preventing anyone from confessing any form of religion that he thinks is where he was or was born. There are those of us who are born in one faith, and we will not change it. I respect that with every citizen. But I don't allow anything from a pay phone to come to me in a country that, in our people, can't be accepted; to go back 2,000 years, I won't because any turning back can lead to conflict. I'm not going to point you at that, I'm not qualified to perform religious teaching yet, but Orthodox and Catholics have separated only the principle of the philiatrics, and it led to bloody conflicts between Christians afterwards. As far as small religious communities are concerned, as regards the religious communities accepted in the world and the unaccepted among us, who wants to study their principles will have to go where these communities are dominant, where they have hundreds of millions, thousands of members and that they further study what they cannot do here. I would remind you once again - nothing and everything in this country is allowed which is not prohibited by law. No small religious community will be abolished by the simple fact that religious communities are not allowed by, most likely, priests and religious communities. This does not mean that people will not be able to belong to them, but only that the state is not interested in introducing these teachings into its school system. A great river is important, and streams pour out from the river, and they think that they are brighter and stronger than that river, they are stronger and brighter only for those who are on these streams. For us, the most important churches that we have taxed are and we would like that amendment to be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u20936	Does anyone else sign up for a word? Replica, MP Rodoljub Sabic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u20937	He has the right to a colleague, Nikolic, to his own opinion, but he must be correct in doing so. So, I didn't force anyone, I don't have that desire, I don't have that power, I don't have that power, I don't have this pay phone, I don't want it. I've even finished my presentation by asking you to think about something. I just want to say: if you think that some large religious communities, because they are not traditional here -- I repeat, I'm not talking about sects, yesterday I expressed my view of sects, they are for me in Criminal Law -- they have no right to act, then I'm sure, although I'm not sure it's good, the Serbian Orthodox Church, which is big and traditional here, can't exercise any similar rights that I stand for and out of this country or in some place where someone else will say it's not traditional. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u20938	Does anyone else sign up for a word? We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, followed by MP Bojana Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u20939	Article 101(1) has been injured. So I'd like to keep it clear. A lot of labels in my life are glued. I've never had the chance to answer that. Now I have a chance. I didn't say at all that it wouldn't be allowed to operate, please make it absolutely clear, I just said that the state wasn't interested in studying it in schools. Mr. Sabic is now, read the stenogram, said something that can be interpreted as saying that the functioning of these churches is not allowed in the state or will not be allowed; it will be fully allowed. But what we're really going to deal with -- it's sects, it's sacrifices, it's blood, that's what none of you normals will accept. But not for a moment, nor have I ever thought in my life, nor can I say that the functioning of those churches, which will not be mentioned here by this law, will be allowed. Of course, it'll be safe.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u20940	This was, in fact, the same use of the right to replication, not the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Is anyone else applying for this amendment? MP Bojana Aleksic, authorised representative of the DOS parliamentary group, Democratic Party of Serbia, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u20941	I think that the reasons behind the amendment itself gave the best reasons why this amendment should not be voted on. Namely, the Constitution guarantees all citizens of this country the right to freedom of religion, whatever it may be, as well as all other freedoms. But here we are talking about the system of education, the introduction of religion and the introduction of an alternative subject, whose basis is ethics, which should raise our children and our generations. The majority people in this country are still Serbian people. In addition to the Serbian people there live some other peoples, they all have rights and all of them have this law, which is precisely with this provision that says - traditional religious communities, allows their children to raise in the spirit of their traditions, and Catholics, and Slovaks, and Muslims and Jews, beside us Orthodox people. So, to talk here about the rights of some people who have opted for other churches, which are simply not in the spirit of our tradition, they of course have the right to do so under the Constitution, but it cannot enter into the system of education, or it cannot enter into curricula and programmes.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u20942	Does anyone else sign up for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 25, against 156, a abstentioned one, did not vote 10, a total of 192 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic submitted to the 9th amendment. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The word is made by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u20943	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, position 2nd Article 9. The bill, as proposed by the government, reads: "The curricula and the religious teaching programme are agreed by the minister of education and the minister of religion, on a harmonised proposal of traditional churches and religious communities, in accordance with the law. "The Serbian Radical Party is asking for amendments to Article 2 by amendment. The bill and rightly expects the support of most parliamentary groups. Namely, the Serbian Radical Party proposes to replace the word "community" with a bracket, in which the text is written -- "Serbian Orthodox Church, Islamic Community, Catholic Church, Slovak Church, Jewish community, Reformary Christian Church and Evangelical Christian Church". If you adopt this amendment to the Serbian Radical Party, Article 9. The draft law on elementary schools would read: "The teaching plan and the programme of religious teaching are agreed by the minister of education and the minister of religion, on the agreed proposal of traditional churches and religious communities (Serbian Orthodox Church, Islamic Community, Catholic Church, Slovak Church, Jewish community, Reformary Christian Church and Evangelist Christian Church), according to the law. "The aim of this amendment is to specify what the state considers to be traditional churches and religious communities with which it will co-operate in order to carry out religious education in primary and secondary schools and in no way prevents the organisation of people into other, smaller churches or religious communities, in accordance with the law, which do not pose a danger to people and their psyche. Why should the congregation give so much authority to the minister of enlightenment and faith, to interpret themselves what they consider traditional churches. In Serbia, many sects work, especially aggressive Witnesses of Jehovah, with their towers of guards, and then satanists; they really pose a real danger, especially for children. Why would we allow such quasi - teaching, which pose a danger, to come to our schools through religious instruction? This amendment should be accepted because we have just heard that there is a dilemma among some MPs - what to consider a traditional church, as well as examples of what there are in America 10 or 15 million followers or believers cannot be a cult, regardless of what may be 100 or 200 followers in Serbia, or believers. In order to prevent such dilemmas and different interpretations of the terms of traditional churches and religious communities, and above all, what is being passed in the Serbian Parliament and not in the US Congress, this amendment should be supported. (President: I warn you of an excessive amount of time. ) I think that this amendment is also acceptable for those who are against the introduction of religious education into primary schools, because it significantly restricts the right or will of the minister to interpret independently what is considered a traditional church, and also because many priests of the Serbian Orthodox Church, such as Father Rasa in Nis, were active participants in the rally and pre-election activities of the Democratic Opposition of Serbia, were even on the stage and were then promised that traditional churches would be respected. I urge you to vote for this amendment by the Serbian Radical Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u20944	The word is made by Minister Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u20945	On behalf of the promoter, since the self-will of the Minister of Education is limited, I accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u20946	Does the MP Gordana Pop-Lazic want a word? No, I don't. We must vote after the committees have not accepted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 132, against 35, with nine abstentions, 15 did not vote, a total of 191 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment most of the votes. National MPs Rodoljub Sabic, Vlatko Sekulovic and Branko Pavlovic together submitted an amendment proposing that a new member of 9a be added after article 9. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The word is made by MP Rodoljub Sabic, representative of the amendment's applicants.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u20947	Just a few words of honored ladies and gentlemen; therefore, this amendment comes from the fact that here we should respect the principle that we believe is affirmed in the world, which is that university subjects are a good basis for the development of self-initiative, creation, for the development of both the complete personalities of students and complex teaching. Since -- from a moment on -- after the amendment has been rejected, we now have a school in which there is not a single university class, we suggest what we propose.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u20948	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 15, against 152, abstention four, he did not vote 21, a total of 192 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Velimir Simonovic. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The word is by MP Velimir Simonovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u20949	Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday I said my important views on these laws and on religious teaching; however, at least two MPs have heard that there are religious beliefs in all the countries of the European Union, and even in those who are not in the European Union. I want to say from this place that that's not true; that's not true. I've been interested in it before, and especially when we got these laws, I've talked to a lot of young people and girls, who have finished part or complete education in Switzerland, France, Germany, Great Britain, Australia, America -- and there's no religion anywhere. Talk to people who spent a lot of time abroad, whose kids went to school there and you'll hear the same thing. I don't want to speak in France, which has been a well-known secular country since the French Revolution, but I want to tell you that, for example, in Germany, not only is there no religion as a mandatory subject, but the Constitutional Court of Western Germany, 15 or more years ago, has decided to throw a cross out of all schools in German schools. The Bavarian province, which is the largest in Germany, rebelled against it, but had to respect the Constitutional Court's decision. Talk to the people who were there, who taught schools there, so you'll find that Europe is a secular territory long ago, that this secularity is only increasing, and it's not getting smaller, while we want to make a secular state, which really doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u20950	The SRS deputy president, MP Tomislav Nikolic, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u20951	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is normal for us to express different views on this matter. That's what defines us in life, as well as in discussions about this speaker. National MP Mr Simonovic predicted that article 10, paragraph 1), which reads as follows: "Teaching from election cases is carried out in accordance with the curriculum and programme from I to VIII of the class, namely: 1) religious teaching and second subject of ethical-humanist content established by the Minister of Education from I to VIII of the class." Why religious education at school? Because almost all of us who have been involved in politics for 12 years have promised the citizens of Serbia, one way or another. I can't say that she did it, she couldn't even introduce it; that it was part of her program -- she wasn't; but the rest of us were saying that we wanted to study in schools or at least the history of religion, that we wanted our children to know how they live in the world, to see another view of the world, maybe even unscienced, maybe scientific, God would know it. But now's our chance to make it happen. We didn't tell the kids at the time - when we win, you'll have additional obligations. We said to parents and children, "Whoever wants to study the religion will be able to study it?" The government of the Republic of Serbia introduced another subject by that regulation last year. So, we're introducing a religion, and you guys are not going to be religious, you're going to be clumping around in schools. That's how I realized the propagation of that education, when I saw the ministers crinkling. Even the Minister of Education sent a letter to all schools, and that letter was promoted by civic education. In an indirect or direct way, when the school director was written by the minister, he changed it however he wanted to, he informed the directors of which the case should be promoted when parents decide. That's why it was a weak response to enrollment; or maybe it's a real state, I don't know, I don't do survey reading. What's the SRS trying to do? Not what Mr. Simonovic suggests, not that there is no religious teaching. We're just saying this -- this is decided by parents, but the child doesn't decide whether to be religious, this is a choice of parenthood. There are parents who want their children to learn their religion, and they have parents who don't want it. We can't have parents who don't want their children to be taught religion to punish, or their children now, by bringing in another subject -- you're not going to teach them a religion, you're going to teach me another subject, so that those who learn the religion won't be burdened anymore. Let them be more burdened, they want to be religious. They want something against which, perhaps with the right Mr. Simonovic; they want something that is not an obligation at school for all children, which school does not have to provide to children. It doesn't have to; then those who want to let them have extra burden, let it be an electoral object. Those who don't want to, don't make them teach the other subject, because I guess we raise our children so that they don't need that extra education.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u20952	National MP Velimir Simonovic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u20953	Everything the state needs to do about religious learning is this: if a group of parents comes to the director and says - we want our children to hear little religious education, but the church has no suitable room or no room near the school; the director can say - okay, I'll give you one classroom for that religious teaching, and no other obligations should be taken over. As far as this second case goes, it's just unnecessary. Like, somebody doesn't want to be religious, so come on, civil education, like raising kids in a civil spirit. The point of the school is to raise children in the civil spirit. It's the spirit of school. Like, it's an alternative subject of religious science; well, everything you learn in schools, it's allergicly religious.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u20954	National MP Bojana Aleksic, an authorised representative of the DOS-DSS parliamentary group, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u20955	We really don't understand those MPs who regard themselves as Democrats, and obviously they're not. With what right do some MPs here, who apparently have different beliefs from us DSS MPs, against which we have nothing to have different beliefs, want me, as well as all parents of similar opinions to deny the possibility that my children are educated in the way that Serbian tradition predicted, in the way our parents have been educated; in a way that was, apparently, much better, because many things in our past have been much better than the last 60 years.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u20956	The word is by MP Slobodan Pavlovic, the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u20957	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Micic, I am not an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group, it is Mr. Garcevic, I am the deputy president. I hope you're congratulating me. Allow me to say a few sentences regarding the amendment of distinguished Professor Simonovic. The SPS's seat and parliamentary groups in this parliament were presented by representatives and MPs of our party who spoke in the principle debate, which was also discussed by counterpart Hranislav Peric in the amendment to Article 9. So our relationship with religious education, our relationship with school, with religious communities, where it should be organised, etc., is absolutely famous. What Professor Simonovic suggested is on the line of what we, as a parliamentary group, advocate. The SPS parliamentary group will support this amendment. To add two more reasons: one is that the explanation of distinguished Professor Simonovic is completely different in terms of the situation in European and other civilized countries, related to religious communities and education, in which I fully believe the data. Secondly, in response to this amendment, the Government said that Professor Simonovic's amendment was not accepted for the same reasons as the amendment of SPS MP Hranislav Peric to Article 9. With all that in mind, we will support this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u20958	The word has the president of the DOS parliamentary group, Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic, and then Mr. Cirkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u20959	Mrs. Micic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it seems to me that you are forgetting that what we are doing here today is watching our public and that you are making too often those mistakes that our predecessors made in the last decade when, misreading very important topics, they actually created a space where such tragic political decisions were made, as are definitely those we faced through the consequences that we are removing. So, just about two important lies; not about two different political attitudes because it's our right. And it wouldn't be good for us to dispute and deny each other just because we think differently politically. But school cannot be an alternative to some religious cultural education, not in political, economic, cultural terms. Religious education cannot be an alternative to education, and school education must not be an alternative to anyone who wants to be religiously educated. It is not possible to organise religious education in Serbia as it has been done in some countries of Europe, and there is no country in Europe except Albania, Macedonia, Slovenia and France, which is different, in which there is no system of organised religious education. So two models are important; I don't know who talked to who and where these people studied, or attended high school or elementary school, but we have two models. One is characteristic of Britain, England, Ireland, Denmark, and Greece. The 1988 Law introduced a compulsory confessional Christian religious teaching in England, and the 1996 Law, in addition to compulsory religious teaching, introduced daily joint service at school, with the right of parents to exempt their child from that service if they wish. The second model is represented in the largest number of European countries and this is a model that we want to apply, significantly more liberally, characteristic of Germany, Austria, Belgium, the Netherlands, Luxembourg, Finland, Malta, Portugal, Spain and Italy. It is a model of compulsory religious teaching, but with an alternative if a parent or student does not want it; the alternative is to change it with another subject, ethics or morals. It is true that the school is a place where a young man is civilized, but today in his education system, with all the technocrat problems that we are facing and that we are trying to solve by obtaining education, we are not doing something like that. I guarantee you that the students of the Faculty of Philology are finishing their studies without reading the Talmud, the Koran or the Holy Scriptures. Not that they didn't understand him, but they didn't read him because they didn't have a chance to do that. You finish high school, high school, general and social direction, you don't do anything like that. This is not a dogma spread, but the opening of an opportunity that is completely liberal and leaves each of us the right to assess whether or not it will take advantage of it, but it would be good to put a little less intensity into this debate because the subject itself does not deserve such a thing. The important questions are something that can divide us, but the way we're going to discuss them must be unique, therefore decent and based on facts.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u20960	National MP Zoran Cirkovic, deputy president of the DOS-New Serbia parliamentary group, spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u20961	We've really heard different stories. We heard that Christianity two thousand years ago wasn't a traditional church; it wasn't, and don't worry about anything, the law has no retroactive fact. We've heard that advocacy against religious teaching stems from the fact that he's a Republican. I don't see any connection between advocacy against religious teaching with being a Republican. By the way, I'm not even sure the speaker was always a Republican, because in 1991 he was with me on October 5th to welcome Prince Alexander Karadjordjevic to the Intercontinental. There was my brother Luna, too, who can testify, etc. Furthermore, the commitment to abolishing religious teaching, i.e. to ban reintroduction and calling for what was happening in Germany, etc., is untrustworthy and doubt that the source used by the former speaker was reliable. The sources here are quoted from the European Union. We didn't question the students, maybe your students were running away from class, so they don't know what they were learning. By the way, there's also a speaker here with some pretty time-olds who've been learning religious studies, and they might be pulling some traumas from that period. They have no reason to fear like that. Modern Catholics won't be so hard on our students. We have to give our children a chance to teach religious science. I didn't teach religion, but thank God I learned from my father. My children didn't teach religion either, but they learned religion thanks to me. We want to give my children a chance to teach regular religion. So, religious science is a regular object, it belongs to the spirit of this people and to the spirit of our church. By the way, we heard that the Serbian Orthodox Church is trying to suspend itself as a minor and declare itself a protectorate. It's a sad story. I'm sad about that story. The Serbian Orthodox Church verticalized Serbian spirituality. It is the oldest Serbian institution and no one has challenged the Serbian institution yet, except militant atheists. By the way, Oscar Davico said once, whenever he is in a dilemma of what to define, he listens to what the Serbian Orthodox Church thinks, and his attitude is always the opposite. And, not to be confused, I'm not talking about Oscar as a Jew, I'm talking about Oscar as a communist. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u20962	Right on line, MP Velimir Simonovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u20963	Mr. Jovanovic's presentation and his colleagues' exposure mainly refer to what I was saying, although they did not mention my name, I recognized myself clearly. First I have to tell you - I've always been a Republican, and if I happened to be at Prince Alexander's reception when he first came to Belgrade, it's only because we, then the opposition, wanted to make a bit of a fuss. But once I met with him, when he was receiving representatives of opposition parties, so I was in a delegation of the then Democratic Party and we talked to him at a hotel maybe half an hour and more, I told him - Your Majesty, you have no chance of being king in this country. As far as he's concerned. And as for this second one, that some graduates of the colleges, these humanitarian teachings, so they don't read the Bible there, so it's their fault that they don't read. I, Mr. Jovanovic, have read all of this, and not only that, am giving students the task of finding a mathematical paradox in the apostle Paul's letter to the critics.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u20964	Is there anyone else applying for a word under this amendment? Tord Dr. Laszlo, here you are, deputy president of the parliamentary group of the Duke Hungarian Union.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u20965	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, the Union of Duchy Hungarians is working hard to represent a group of duchy Hungarians in this House. Since our voters are largely part of it, not to say to the vast majority, believers, and most of the Roman Catholic Church, and in part two, as we call them in the Hungarian people of the historical church (meaning that it is a reformist Protestant church and an evangelical Protestant church), I have to tell you what our attitude is regarding the introduction of religious teaching in school. I must point out that our historical churches have largely solved the problem of religion over the past 50 years in some way within their own framework, so religious teaching for our youth has been organized in the church, so by introducing religion into schools, we don't get much more than we've ever had. However, we welcome the introduction of religion into schools because we think that this is how we are returning to our civilization traditions, so that our parliamentary group will support the government's position on the introduction as an alternative to either religion or alternative subjects. This time we will vote against amendments that want to limit that possibility. I hope that all what colleagues are proposing, who are contesting religion, is not the result of the last 10 years and then the ruling Marxist thoughts, but that this is the result of modern social democratic influences from Western Europe.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u20966	Thank you. Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 39, against 138, two abstentions, 16 of 195 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Rada Bajic. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The word has the People's MP Rada Bajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u20967	Dear fellow Members of the People, it is obvious that this article 10 is very interesting. On behalf of the SPS Parliament Club, I have submitted an amendment to delete, in Article 10(1), point 1). Item 1 states that the course from the election papers is achieved in accordance with the curricula and the programme from first to eighth grade, and that, point 1) religious teaching and second subject of ethical-humanist content established by the minister of education from first to eighth grade. The main reason is that the introduction of religious teaching is not based in the Constitution, and on the other hand, the legislator here calls for some international declarations. On the contrary, these international declarations do not say anything that the coercion is the introduction of religious teaching, as well as any other ethical-humanistic object. There's talk of rights to freedom of mind, conscience, religion. If a member of this law is read further, it is said that when a child is enrolled in the first and each subsequent class, the parent has the right and obligation to define himself as a religious teaching or one of these ethical-humanistic subjects. So, the child is required to listen. Therefore, it is no longer a university subject, he is obliged to listen to it. Thus, it is a violation of the fundamental right of man to freedom of thought and religion. To say right away, the SPS, as someone said before, is to separate, as is normal, church and state, that religion is not studied in schools. In any case, we are not against those who want to listen to religion and that parents choose children to listen to it in church facilities, that the state defines the funds from the budget for carrying out that teaching. Or, as the distinguished professor said, if there is no place, if there is no church, to define one classroom, that those who wish can continue to listen. We're not against it. But not as a mandatory subject and not as something imposed on students, on those who don't want to. There's one more thing to tell you from experience, and you all know that -- a lot of kids just didn't want to accept what their parents chose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u20968	Thank you. National MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group, spoke. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u20969	I will take advantage of the opportunity to point out another reason why article 10 should be changed and should not be seen in one normal state (in particular that position 1 and point 1) as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The government of the Republic of Serbia has introduced a major dilemma among Serbian citizens, whether there is a school programme in Serbia at all, whether there is any knowledge of what schools they teach. If the Government of the Republic of Serbia treats religious teaching equally as an object entirely equal to all other items, and introduces a pandan to cover all children with one more subject, the question arises... a religious teaching is also assessed by a descriptive assessment. So it's being graded. The question arises with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, how did man come to be? If it is the first hour of religious teaching (and you know, some of you know, some of you do not know, let them read), how will the one who teaches religious teaching explain the creation of a man, and especially the creation of a woman. The student will have to know that to get a good descriptive grade. Don't tell me that one great student will be totally whatever has a negative religious grade or not. Second class will be biology. There will be a teacher who will present a completely different theory. With him, of course, a man and woman will become the same, by evolution. They'll meet, and as someone said two thousand years ago, they'll be found somewhere a million years ago, or already how many millions, in a tree. I'm interested in what this student learns and gets an "A" to think about school and state. Are we making a double personality, are we making a little liar for life? He who adapts himself to conditions as a camel--when a priest asks me how the world came to be, I'll say so, and when the professor asks me how the world came to be, I'll say so, I need a good grade. I would understand the state if she said -- in this school that's called that and that's what's at that and that address, this science is going to be studied. The kids going there won't be confused. He shall read of the first, and of the second, and of the third, and of the fourth day, and of the rib of Adam, and of all things. In that school over there, you're going to study Darwin. So now, kids, go ahead, work it out, or you'll be there, or you'll be there. The same problem can't be interpreted in a single state school in two ways. (President: I warn you of an excessive amount of time. I'm done. He can't. Solve it a little bit, all of it can get rid of it in a better way, so no one can be bitter. You didn't do anything if half the MPs in this room came out with the feeling that we hurt them by creating a majority. Listen to me, I've often felt that way, and especially since you've been in power, you've been out of this room.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u20970	Thank you. Does anyone else sign up for a word? The word is from MP Vladimir Garčević, an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u20971	The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Minister, I must say something for the sake of the truth. A letter sent by the minister to schools, which I was obliged to read as a class elder, provides the possibility for students, or parents to identify themselves for three options, or four. One option was religious, another civic, third option both, and the fourth option was neither. The fact that only 30:15 was defined in my school, and in other schools the percentage and some of the results we have, perhaps in that part there was the most democracy that a high school student at 16 years of age could declare what he wanted. Given that he is now trying to impose that he must necessarily study one of the two subjects, I must say that all these calls for resolutions are a threat to students' thoughts and thinking. Because here it says "freedom of thought, conscience and religion" - who defends it, the Constitution has guaranteed so far and accepted resolutions, with our state not allowing, or not being introduced as an object. That means now we're going to make the students study one of those two subjects. And what about the students who pleaded against them in the first grade this year, both of them? We're going to say in the second year -- here you go, kids, you have to study one of those two subjects this year. Then it can no longer be said that it is not mandatory, cannot be talked about the resolutions and that it is called upon, because it is mandatory to increase one hour a day to the students. Then, in my opinion, they're at risk of freedom. Let me say, if the basic rule was that students were studying the religion of theredephres, meaning in religious objects, that their conditions were made possible, and that in schools they were studying subjects that were common to all students, that would be different. This is how we made a series of divisions, no matter what they say it isn't. I think this is a worse solution, what is now being offered, than what was decided by the Serbian government. This is a worse solution. So we socialists are for another solution, but when we choose between these two solutions, this is now worse, because we've made students have one hour more burden. You do high school research, let's see how many students don't want to study any of these two subjects, and we'll see the results of all that. I suggest you accept this amendment and that freedom is respected by not making students study these two subjects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u20972	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 27, there are no abstentions against 119, 47 of the 193 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 10. The amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Rodoljub Sabic, Vlatko Sekulovic and Branko Pavlovic. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The amendment will be explained by MP Rodoljub Sabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u20973	So we're talking about an extremely important and delicate subject, the truth and the public's work should be said: whoever comes out for this pay phone and says that someone in this room was against freedom of religion or religious teaching, is not telling the truth. There were several views here, very different, but no one said it was against freedom of religion or religious teaching. The attitudes were very different. They repeat the position of the Social Democrats; therefore, our principled position was that religious teaching should be organised in religious schools, with full logistics, material and other support of the state. Of course, we see and respect the fact that here, apparently, most people think differently. And if most people want religious education in state schools, as realists in politics, we are able to accept and respect it, but we stand at the point that the exercise of the right of a part of the citizens doesn't need in any way to create obligations for other citizens. So, the amendment that we proposed instead of the formulation that a parent has the right to choose one of the two subjects at the beginning of the school year, in fact the norm comes down to that donor having the right to choose one of the two subjects. We stand at the point that we do not question this exercise of rights, but we are preventing a situation where, in order to exercise one's right, someone else's obligations are being imposed; and they are being imposed. You know, it's the right institute to signify the possibility of acting or not acting in a certain way. The obligation requires you to act in a certain way: and when it is alternative, it is an obligation. One word, if this amendment isn't accepted, one number of students, I won't bid which one will get a commitment he didn't have and didn't want. That's why I urge you to adopt this amendment. I would ask that, before voting on the amendment, a quorum be established.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u20974	Thank you. People's MP Ratimir Svircevic, an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, reformists of Vojvodina and Sandzak Democratic Party, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u20975	Dear fellow MPs, this amendment by a group of MPs is about the right measure, in the opinion of the parliamentary club I represent. I will try to explain this, to point out some of the illogicalities that are in the proposed text and try to convince you in some way that by accepting this amendment we will not lose anything, we will not challenge anyone's rights, but we will do certain things in a better, more subtle and civilized way. This is why, in the proposed text of Article 10, it is said that at the beginning of each year the parent has the right to choose between two subjects (see the text as they are called) and then, afterwards, they become mandatory. The bottom line is that when you force your parents to choose between these two subjects at the beginning of the year, it means children from families who have certain religious feelings, one word theists, are opposed to another group, which, according to the text that is proposed here, ethical and humanistic characteristics. So out of the very text comes one division, one conclusion that those who are theists are not humanists and are not ethical. In such a situation where something is mandatory, you're imperatively dividing people into these two categories. If the text were to be accepted that, in this section, regarding these two cases, the principle of universityism meant optionalness, then it would by choice lead to a particular situation for both students and parents (I will try to explain it by some example). Let's just say astronomy is a college subject, so those kids that are interested in it will come forward. In the case of those who don't commit to such a thing, no one will say to them that they're uncultural, that science doesn't interest them, and a whole series of other possibilities. So when you have an electoral object that is mandatory, it reads - German, French, English and Russian, and it becomes mandatory. In this case, thematic teaching, religion, or ethical-humanist teaching divides people into those who believe and those who are humanists and ethics. It is an unwarranted and unwarranted insult to those who will choose the teaching of religion. Therefore, such an amendment overcomes the problem. He just rightly defines it. I'm sure there will be a large number of children who won't choose any other subject. Thus, we will not bring children who attend (with the will of their parents above all) religion as an object to the situation that they are marked as those who do not accept ethical and humanistic principles because of this text. So I suggest that this amendment be adopted. We didn't banish the school faith, we didn't eliminate the possibility of students being educated in this area, but we gave them the possibility that if they didn't want to, they couldn't commit to one or the other subject, and that all the knowledge of ethics, humanity, etc. They come from objects that even form the basis. Remember the subject of typephilosophy, language, history and so forth. I would also (President: Mr. Scrooge, I warn you of time over.)... An amendment that says that electoral items related to religious science or, as it says here, ethical-humanist content should be academic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u20976	Thank you. Is there anyone else applying for this amendment? The word has the deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group, MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u20977	I will not explain the amendment of the Serbian Radical Party in part similar to this amendment, following the consequences of the same. I just want to compare those two amendments. So Serbian Radical Party MPs feel it is necessary to enable university learning of religious teaching or that children learn nothing. The amendment now under discussion provides for the university study of religious teaching or civic education, or for the student to learn nothing. The consequences are the same. It's just that there's an opportunity for another subject to be taught academically, and it's our attitude to continue religiously doesn't need to be predicted for any alternative. So either the child is going to study religious teaching, to tell him that there's even some opposite, some pandan for that religious sequel, it's not going to work, and it's being forced that this civic education would be something that's opposed to that, so -- or this is the life you're going to understand or something. It is better to say, whoever wants to teach the religion will teach it. Whoever doesn't want to have that moment won't have it. In any case, we will vote for this amendment, and for ours, of course, unless this one passes.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u20978	Thank you. The word is from MP Bojan Kostreš, representative of the DOS parliamentary group, the League of Social Democrats Vojvodina and the League for the Shumadi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u20979	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the Social Democratic Group of Vojvodina and the League for the Shumadi will support this amendment because it is not necessary or at least not tolerated to force children, or parents, to choose between religious and civic education, since we would thus share children; on the other hand, we do not think that we should introduce religion into schools in this way. We support the university study of these subjects, and we think it's most appropriate in this case. I would also suggest that the president determine the quorum before the vote, so that we can have the Parliament's right attitude on that.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u20980	Yeah, I'm just waiting for you to finish the discussion. Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On the proposal of MP Rodoljub Šabić and MP Bojan Kostreš, I ask that we establish the quorum. I'm guessing we have a quorum. No more reported word after this amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 49, against 104 abstentions, 11 did not vote 16, a total of 180 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 10. The amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here's a word from the People's MP Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u20981	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to inform you on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party that Friday at 15.00 hours in Vrsac is the rally of the Serbian Radical Party. The purpose and essence of the Serbian Radical Party's amendment was explained in part by MP Tomislav Nikolic. You gentlemen are aware of the fact that by regulation you have introduced religion into schools. It wasn't so long ago that you couldn't remember, in front of the Patriarchy you promised that the religious class would be introduced as an electoral object to schools. The minister was present. There was no alternative at the time, when it was a religious class to be studied as an electoral class at school. If she was, why didn't you say so in front of that Patriarchy? You didn't, because then, gentlemen, you asked for the support of the Serbian Orthodox Church, because you did something that no one in the history of the Serbian people had done - you kidnapped the former president of this country and you delivered it for money, and then, to commit fraud, you went to the Serbian Orthodox Church and you began to cheat there. What's illogical here? What's contradictory? You offer for religious teaching an alternative and you offer it, as we have heard here from prominent DOS representatives, civil education. So, what's our primary school education like? Small-town? Soldier? What's he like? Well, all you learn is civic education. Gentlemen, you say ethical-humanist education. Well, gentlemen, just remember the words of the prime minister of Serbia. He said, "Whose morals and honesty go to church." How can you now oppose the words of Zoran Djindjic? So he's not right either. Of course, he said that in another context. Gentlemen, our proposal is that religious science be an electoral subject in schools. Do not substitute the thesis to confuse the citizens of Serbia. Parents choose what their child will teach them. The insistence of the Serbian Radical Party is that it be only a religious one. If a parent defines that a child teaches it to be a child, and if it is defined as not learning anything, not by causing confusion, to cause dilemmas among Serbian citizens when it comes to enrolling their children. Who taught you this? Is this the Europe that recommends learning about humanism and ethics? Well, gentlemen, it's all about the tradition of the church, no matter what it's about, and especially in the Serbian Orthodox Church, there's our culture, there's our tradition, there's our education, there's our language, and you're losing your territory. We'll go through you and we'll do it for you (President: three minutes and 30 seconds) and this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u20982	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? Here's a word from MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u20983	I would really not answer to explain this amendment, given that my colleague Mircic gave a perfectly correct explanation, given the position and programme of the Serbian Radical Party, but I wanted to point out another fact that he missed. It is that when the government prescribes the choice of religious teaching or this other alternative subject called - civic education, but in the next member, the Serbian Government, says textbooks and other teaching tools are approved by the minister of education, and this is agreed upon by a proposal of traditional churches and religious communities, in accordance with the law. It's meant for this law. And what about the textbook for this second subject -- that's what we're guessing. It is probably necessary once again for the minister to approve it or there is another body within the Ministry or Government; it is unclear for us MPs, and I suppose the Government is also unclear. What was really important to the Serbian Radical Party is that this law makes it possible for religious communities, traditional religious communities, to be taxed with this law and able to hold religious education in schools and thus eliminate the possibility of entering some pseudochristian sects (some calling them small religious communities), which are not only traditional in Serbia, but are also very dangerous, destructive. Don't forget to go in the small door and we could read in the press that this Najbor, a famous diplomat, or CIA agent, who met with Perisic at the Ibari Masteral, also a member of a very dangerous cult, whose members are called pentastals. There are few of us who have heard of them, but there are also warring, adventivists, and we see that they perform very aggressively in Belgrade's billboards, especially adventivists. As for the ethical-humanistic content of one subject, which our children need to teach ethics and humanism, I think we should first of all address the programs of all teaching courses in our schools, and if we want to be honest, we will admit that the higher education, or the higher education, the worse education for us. We can boast of an extremely good teacher's staff, including teacher's staff, or primary school is much better than high school; teacher-teacher-teacher-teacher-teacher-teacher-teacher-teacher-teacher-teacher-teacher-teacher-teacher-teacher-teacher-teacher-teacher-teacher relationship is much better in primary school than in high school. I've always really respected the professor's profession, and I don't want teachers to resent me, but strange things have been happening in the last year or two in our schools, especially in high schools. There are children who suffer because of what they say... (President: Four minutes. I'm sorry, I'm done, just another sentence. They suffer extremely because their parents, for example, are politically active. My child was one of those children, physically harassed and created such a negative climate around that child, so I wonder if through all the classes, whether through the education of professors or in what way we should influence the development of these humanistic and ethical principles with the professor, who would then pass it on to our children. We can also call that subject a nice education, however you like, but if the environment is what it is, and the bad environment is, there's not gonna be much of the father-in-law to learn from this case. That's why we're pushing for this to be erased from the law, so there's no alternative to religious continuation, and to search all the programs, especially social sciences that need, of course, to have ethical-humanistic content above all.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u20984	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 26, against 110, the two abstentions, were not voted 32, a total of 170 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Radulovic and Bojana Aleksic. The Government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Milan Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u20985	Dear People's MPs, Mr. Minister, member of the 10th to which MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia have tabled an amendment regulates the issue of election cases in primary school. Three groups of electoral items are predicted, as you've seen. The first is a moral education, or group of subjects of cultural-- historical and ethical content, which we can treat as a moral education, from first to eighth grade. Second, foreign language from third to eighth grade and, third, other election items in seventh and eighth grade. The foreign language and other electoral items are determined by the school board, based on the opinion of the municipality. One small change has been introduced under the first point. Elections shall be mandatory for pupils who have been assigned to them from third to eighth grade, if that is a foreign language, or in seventh and eighth grade, if that is another electoral item. When it comes to subjects of ethical and religious content, it foresees an obligation for parents to identify which of them at the beginning of each school year, with eight or nine of them, which of eight or nine disciplines will teach their child. In principle, it seems to me to be a good solution because electoral items are something that represents the future of our schooling, even basics. We have suggested that a change be made in the attitude that obliges parents to declare at the beginning of each year what the subject will teach them, and thus only in the first and fifth classes. The reasons why we propose this are primarily practical. Our primary school still rests on two basic cycles: from first to fifth to eighth grade; so are curricula and programs; so is organized teaching. We don't have different organized classes but in these two cycles. So -- for practical reasons, because of our school's inability to form new classes at the beginning of each school year, depending on the student's profession -- it's better to stay with children who opted for one of the subjects of ethical education, whether they're religious, that subject is being studied for four years, so that they eventually choose another in fifth; with what they can, of course, in each class -- although they've been relying on one and thus committed to it, to attend classes and other classes. So it's just practical reasons; in part and pedagogical: it's easier to learn when you conceive a four-year program. Then you can round up one whole. I believe the Ministry and the Minister well know the state of our school: that we are unable to conduct a dynamic election class. However, the Ministry did not accept this amendment. He probably has some reasons beyond these practical and pedagogical things that we have in mind.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u20986	The word has a minister in the government, Mr. Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u20987	Our primary school is now running by system four plus four, and that's going to change very quickly into three plus three plus three, so this reason is going to go away. With such an option, such an amendment, given by a group of Democratic Party of Serbia MPs, increases ties to one of the elections made and increases to four years. So a higher degree of rigor, conditionally speaking. However, all of my conversations that I have had quite often, willingly or reluctantly, with the Ministry of Faith, with all the church communities, suggest that a one-year choice is acceptable for all participants of the whole process. The government, unfortunately, cannot accept this amendment, remains with its proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u20988	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 43, against 96, there are no abstentions, he did not vote 31, out of 170 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Djura Lazic. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The amendmentr wants a word. The word has the People's MP Đura Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u20989	The Honorable Presidency, distinguished fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, on my amendment, on behalf of the SPS, I ask that Article 11 of this bill be deleted, not because the SPS is against the study of religion, because the Socialists remain in the belief that the issue of religion is resolved by constitutional provisions and that the confession of religion is an intimate matter of every citizen, but because we consider it more natural, better, more effective that this work of learning religion is entrusted to traditional churches and religious communities, that in these facilities and with their staffs they are studying this area. Article 11. The law, which you have proposed, would indeed make sense and would personally support it if the study of religion included in the facilities of the traditional church, with funding, or doping by the state and making programs with the consent of the church communities. In this regard, it would have been effective to give consent to this programme and to allocate certain resources, as is usually done in many developed Western European countries. We seem to have wrongly devalved, above all I think of the Serbian Orthodox Church, taking over the role of organizing and performing religion, because the SPC, as a traditional, with its existence for over eight centuries, almost a millennium existence, was the headquarters of the development of Serbian spirituality, culture and literacy, the preservation of national identity and during the five-century slavery under the Ottoman Empire. Fortunately, I had the opportunity to meet, to read, to see many written monuments of the Serbian Orthodox Church in churches in western Macedonia and Kosovo and Metohija from the 13th and 14th centuries. These are monuments of invaluable value. If the SPC in that time, during that long period of time had the power, the strength, the minds to develop this literacy, the culture, to safeguard Serbian identity, why now we take away her right and not help her organize a religion for parents who want their children to study religion. Secondly, one of my fellow MPs said yesterday or yesterday that the last 10 years had been destroyed by a church. I do not agree with that finding, and I argue that for the past 10 years, because it is clearly thought at the time of the rule of the SPS and Slobodan Milosevic, more churches were made than in the whole 20th century. In those 10 years, which are being attacked and said to have been destroyed by the church, the people have been returned to the church and the church to the people, unlike Broz’s time when many who went to church and baptized in church suffered and had certain consequences. Someone's talking about the mosque. Just the largest number of mosques was built in the '70s, '80s.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u20990	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 27, against 90, the abstentions were not voted 44, out of a total of 161 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Velimir Simonovic has tabled an amendment proposing that Articles 11, 12, 14 and 28 be deleted. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee have not accepted this amendment. The amendmentr wants a word. The word is by MP Velimir Simonovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u20991	Ladies and gentlemen, I'll just take a moment. Since my amendment to Article 10 has not been accepted, then this amendment loses all meaning. So I'm giving up this amendment, and I'm pulling it, because it doesn't make any sense anymore. I don't just know how in Article 12 that the Ministry of Faith participates in criteria and ways of grading religious students. Since when is it the work of the Ministry of Faith? The Ministry of Faith has also made this whole confusion about this, not the Ministry of Education, which, of course, is consistent. Just two more sentences to add. Mr. Knezevic, and this Ministry of Faith, and even the Sinode of the Serbian Orthodox Church, could be interested in the experience of teaching this year in schools. I have two or three drastic cases in Belgrade that I've been informed of these days. Whoever came up with religious teaching in this way couldn't think of a better way to compromise the whole idea. It will also be seen by the Serbian Orthodox Church soon.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u20992	I find that the MP has withdrawn an amendment proposing that Articles 11, 12, 14, and 28, be deleted, so that he ceases to be the subject of discussion in particular. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Rodoljub Sabic, Vlatko Sekulović and Branko Pavlovic. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? In the name of the MPs of the people, the word is made by MP Branko Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u20993	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is very interesting that I first read to you what the Government does not accept. Our amendment reads: "The course of the course takes place only if there is a textbook approved by the Minister of Education... ". In other words, for the government it is unacceptable that there must be a textbook for the subject to surrender. I don't know how we think that's some kind of progress compared to the period that's been up until now. So we're going for improvisation, we're going to have different teachers come into different classrooms and say what they think they should tell the students. We understand that we are just about to have a serious reform of primary school, but we don't understand that these schools can't be done right now. In this first part, where we are talking about traditional churches, I have to give you a second argument; this is a message to those who spoke to the Democratic Party of Serbia, and right after the SRS amendment adopted by the government saw that they explicitly mean that now with the adventists it is something very problematic. Excuse me, what's the problem with the Adventist Church? Nothing under God's name. Now I'll explain why. But the idea to distinguish traditional churches and religious communities rests on the arbitration of deciding on some religious belief. So you have more people who have religious beliefs and believe in God and then you say you do it in a ritual and I value it more, and you do it in another ritual and I value it less. Please, according to theological teachings, who puts himself in a position to value belief in God, he is blasphemous. It's a ossion, it's a mortal sin, according to the Bible. Hence, you do not understand that by theological interpretation, when you distinguish between traditional churches and religious communities, you put yourself in the position of the Most High. I'm not religious, but you realize that it's totally out of line with the Holy Scriptures. Now, the Adventistic Church, I apologize, I'll only have five seconds to extend, it's a very short time of three minutes, I haven't, I voted against, you can take a list, I really voted against because it's impossible to work in three minutes. So, like this, the Adventivist Church is part of a reforming process in the church, they said -- with experience from Luther back there in Ahena what it looks like -- let's go back to the Christian roots. As part of this, the adventists say, that root is only the Bible, therefore, their foundation is only the Holy Scriptures. The amendment was accepted where traditional churches were taxed, and they are not adventists, so I ask you why it is not a church based solely on the Holy Scriptures? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u20994	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? The word has a minister in the government, Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u20995	Obviously there's a lot of misunderstanding here, because the predecessor kept asking us why we don't understand anything; it turns out we really don't understand anything, but I don't want to know whether or not I understand faith, it's already said, but I want to talk about books. I realize that law practice often does not apply the Law on textbooks, this is the Law on textbooks that regulates the application of textbooks and has nothing to do with basic and secondary school laws; therefore, it has understanding, we understand that.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u20996	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Bojana Alexic, representative of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u20997	First of all, as far as this amendment is concerned; Branko Pavlovic is my friend, we went to the same high school and we are friends of the school, so we know that whenever a new subject is introduced, or when a class is radically modified, then usually in the first year, and sometimes even in the second year of the introduction, there are no textbooks, but it is done according to some instructions from the Ministry, and then students take notes and then respond afterwards. Besides, there's not always textbooks at university for all classes, just because they're not written, that's why there's lectures. Of course, it'll be fixed, but there should be textbooks. But to write a valid textbook takes time; and until then it is done by scripts and it is nothing controversial. As for the second part, I think of it as a replica since the DSS has been mentioned, and regarding the Adventistic and similar churches, I will repeat that according to the Constitution of this country, all citizens have the right to religion for which they themselves have been identified; and of course, there are churches in this country that do not belong in traditional and there are people who belong to those churches. No one's defending them. They say again, this is about the system of education. In elementary schools whose founder is a state, it is normal to study what is related to our tradition. It is also normal for national minorities, according to the Constitution, to have the right to study what is related to their tradition; the best confirmation was given by a representative of the parliamentary group of the duchy Hungarians and there is absolutely nothing controversial; here are representatives of the Muslim religion, and they probably have a similar attitude about it. I don't understand what adventists have to do with traditional religious communities, let them exist and who they convinced to approach that church, that one goes to that church. But it cannot be studied in schools, because schools are completely something else; they study what is traditional. At the very least, every country must protect itself, in every country there is something called a national interest. What is the national interest they begin to teach children first at their homes, and then when they go to school, to become valid citizens of this country, to feel something called patriotism, but not as an empty word, because patriotism here often waved and was very often misused; I'm not talking about this patriotism, I'm talking about something that is the highest and most beautiful of national feelings; they are all peoples on this globe, and I don't see why it's a shame that our people feel the same way. After all, most citizens of this country, I repeat, still make up Serbs. A large number of Serbs are Orthodox religions. Why are there people in the Serbian people, Serbs, who are so troubled by this Orthodox religion and this Orthodox church, why are Serbs all that is foreign to some Serbs, of course, I'm not talking about everyone, more recognizable than what is ours, I really don't understand. I have nothing against those who think so, I do not forbid them to think so, but I cannot understand them, because it is normal for a Serb, Orthodox, to first refer to something that is his, especially if it is humane, well, something that teaches us spirituality, to some higher goals.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u20998	Are there any more reported? The name, MP Branko Pavlovic, is a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u20999	Not because I was mentioned, but because my exposure was not understood. I stand for it as a Serb who is not a Orthodox for the respect of everyone's religious beliefs. It's not that I favor someone at all, it's totally equal to the religious feelings of all the citizens of this country, I'm not a believer, I don't have a religious sense of that kind and I don't at all dispute the need for a deep understanding of religion as a significant effort to establish value. There's a delusion here. It's thought that people who aren't believers have no sense of needing a foundation of value. We do, and it's a lot harder for us, and we question it on our own daily basis. When we think God is gone, how do we justify values? It's a very complicated question, which we who don't have religious feelings deal much more seriously with. Believers have an easy answer, they say - God; in some way we respect it and it's totally fine. So it's not like I'm here to advocate any, one or the other religious feeling, especially not to slow down Orthodox believers to have that feeling; they have church, rituals and everything else. I was just talking about the arbitration between it being inappropriate for Christianity.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u21000	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 16, against 92, the abstentions were not voted 52 out of 160 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Rodoljub Sabic, Vlatko Sekulović and Branko Pavlovic together proposed that new members 11a and 11b be added after article 11. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. On behalf of the applicants, the amendment has the word of MP Branko Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u21001	Dear ladies and gentlemen, in these two members we think should be added after Article 11, we're trying to relieve the students. In Article 11a, we try by proposing a mechanism that would reduce the burden of the number of hours, and then more evenly deploy during the working week. If it is necessary to stand down from this evenness, then we suggest that it is done on Monday or Tuesday, after the weekend, when the students are more rested. You don't have to read all this other stuff, this is the meaning of Article 11a. As far as 11b is concerned, it's very important and it's short and I'll read it to you: "Teaching activities can't be held on Saturdays or on Saturdays or on Sundays, or on working days in the opposite shift." What does that mean? The programs are completely unadjusted by the age of children. They're overloaded. A ban like this, to go to the so-called so-called. Saturdays, and that my child goes to school before noon, and then another hour in the afternoon shift (that's unacceptable for us), we want to put a dam on the total burden on children and timeshare those who come up with a program and plan that has to bring it all down into the available frameworks that are suitable for children's age. He can't overload them as he wants and he has to reduce it to a five-day working week and plan it well, counting the holidays, as well, within a shift. He can't move his kids on the other side of the shift, which has been happening so far. Of course, I have two school kids and I guess most of you have that experience. The quality of those so-called. working Saturdays is far below the average quality of teaching that normally takes place. So it's just a load that doesn't give any more serious results. These amendments are calculated only to relieve our children and to narrow down whoever plans the program and plan for them, so that it has to adapt to the real possibilities of a normal school work.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u21002	Any of the other authorised students in the debate come forward for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 35, against 83, two abstentions, were not voted 38, of 158 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Sreten Mitrovica. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The amendmentr doesn't want a word. Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 14, against 101 abstentions, they did not vote 42 out of 157 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Rodoljub Sabic, Vlatko Sekulović and Branko Pavlovic. The government and the Education Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. National MP Branko Pavlovic withdraws the amendment on behalf of the applicants, which ceases to be the subject of discussion in particular. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Are any of the other authorised students in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 34, against 93, the abstentions were not voted 30, out of 157 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Rodoljub Sabic, Vlatko Sekulović and Branko Pavlovic jointly proposed that new members of 12a, 12b and 12v be added after Article 12. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. On behalf of the applicants, the amendment has the word of MP Branko Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u21003	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is another effort to try to reform the primary school now within the same budget options. So what we are proposing would not require any additional funding, and it would already be possible to fix in the text of the law that was proposed. It's connected and long, and I'm not going to read to you, I'm just going to explain to you what the essence of the proposed additional members is; something is the style of it, and something is the essence. The bottom line is that, when determining the average student rating, there is also the assessment of the rule. We have the kind of condition we have in schools, and it's really pretty bad. I guess this very great tension that we adults are making is being passed on to children, and it doesn't matter what proper school rule means at all. We therefore suggest that the average rating includes the assessment of the rule so that students can take it a little more seriously and think more seriously about how they will rule, and above all we think about the phenomenon where very high-quality students also behave quite inappropriately in schools. They ignore it, they don't care; it doesn't affect his success, and then he doesn't care. We don't think that's the only thing that can be built on governance, but as an additional motive, we think it would be useful. That's the meaning of Article 12a. As far as 12b is concerned, it's erasing Article 50; it's overtitled so now it's unnecessary, it's just legal-technical. As for 12v, we suggest the next thing, to add "and if he passed the final exam from his mother tongue and mathematics". We think that because of a very large difference in the quality of teaching, depending on school to school, in one place, and especially in the territory of all Serbia, it is necessary to standardise knowledge, even from mathematics and native language. It would be one test that would prescribe the Ministry of Education uniformly for all of Serbia. Then we'd average the starting position for high school and for further schooling. Simply put, it's not the same if in one environment you're a great student or in another, where teaching staff is better, requests bigger etc. So we simply propose to this Article 12v to introduce standardisation at the level of all Serbia, at least from the mother tongue and mathematics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u21004	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I am putting the amendment to the vote and asking the MPs to plead. For 42, against 80, a abstentioned one, did not vote 32, out of 155 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The government of the Republic of Serbia, MP Golub Rajic and joint MPs Dragan Markovic, Milos Lukic, Petar Petrovic and Adam Urosevic submitted to the 13th amendment. The Committee on Education has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MP Milos Nesovic submitted to the 14th amendment. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There is a word from MP Milos Nesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u21005	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government, I have tabled an amendment before the SPS parliamentary group on Article 14, which concerns Article 67. The elementary school law. This article says that the kind of professional preparation of teachers of religious teaching is determined by the minister of education, on a joint proposal from the Ministry of Faith and the traditional churches of religious communities. I think the expert prepares it by law, statute or some act on the systemisation of jobs; this may be a major problem, as ministers change over a period of time, so that they will probably change the requirements regarding professional preparation. I also think it's a big problem that's going to be difficult to provide a huge number of teachers and teachers of religious teaching, and that's where the lecturers will come in with the finished high school. I do not believe that today, except for some remote places, in some rural areas, teachers with medium professional training work in schools; all of these are now, practically, teachers with high professional training, with teachers and other universities. Also, I don't think those religious teachers have been through one training, that they know the method, that they know how to lower themselves to the level of those children and that they can adequately convey those knowledge. In addition, the position of the SPS parliamentary group is known, we are not against religion, but this training, that is, education should be done in religious facilities, church facilities and possibly hiring personnel with the Theological Faculty, professors who know they do the best. And finally, and now let me say that by introducing religious teaching in basic education, they will spend huge resources, which could in much more appropriate ways use churches and that this will do more harm than good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u21006	There is a word from MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u21007	From the order of Article 14. The bill - which is made exclusively by the conditions for other teachers, professional associates and educators, whose kind of professional training is determined exclusively by the minister of education, determines that it does so for teachers of religious teaching, on the joint proposal of the Ministry of Faith and Churches already listed in Article 9 - I believe that the revision should throw out this provision of traditional church and religious community, and put into that content from Article 9 and over. But by making exceptions, it is obvious that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the legislator, acknowledges that no one in this country is ready for religious teaching to be at the level of quality, by content, to be equal with other subjects at school. I speak openly, no matter how the media interprets it, the church is not ready to introduce religion into schools. As soon as we don't have textbooks, as soon as we don't have a competition for religious teachers, but according to the list that's agreed on, by the list that no one will decide on, or even at the Ministry of Religion, which is one of the co-proposers, means by the list that will be obtained exclusively from the church, we will determine those who will teach religion to children and thus introduce another parasystem into the system of education, which will concern only one and only one subject in basic, and we will talk about it in secondary education. I can know the motives for this speed, but I don't want to understand them. If the minister refuses the quality amendments, concerning the arrangements of the school system, the number of classes, the duration of teaching, the textbook, and he says, yes, all of this should contain the law, but when we adopt a new law, why such a rush around religiousism, with the recognition that no one is ready for this class to be quality, to meet the needs of both society and children themselves. A man must express his concern - what will it look like, when a village priest stands in front of children and gives a lecture, when there is no minimum of professional training that is set for it, when there are no items that he has to study and pass the exam from them, that will qualify him to stand in front of the children? Of course, I'm convinced that's why you didn't predict in article 1 that physical child abuse is forbidden, because it says there's a beating from God. What if a religious teacher starts to enforce that principle? My late father told me that his palms were shaved from the sticks that were worn by the cadets. I'd ask you to think about this one more time, that one extraordinary idea, maybe that's your wish, don't ruin it for a year, and then everybody from getting religious into school raises their hands.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u21008	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I am putting the amendment to Article 14 on the vote and asking the MPs to plead. For 41, against 86, the abstentions were not voted 24 out of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am fixing a break of up to 15.00 hours and a part of the afternoon we continue the discussion in particular, by amendment to article 14, which was jointly submitted by MPs Rodoljub Sabic, Vlatko Sekulović and Branko Pavlovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u21009	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please insert your identification cards into the MPs to determine the quorum. I find that we have a quorum and that we can continue to work, debate in particular and decide on amendments to the Amendments Act and amendments to the Fundamental School Act. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Rodoljub Sabic, Vlatko Sekulović and Branko Pavlovic. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I ask my colleague to wait just a little while for the MPs who did not participate in the quorum to continue to interfere with the work of the Assembly to take their seats. National MP Branko Pavlovic withdraws the amendment to Article 14. The People's MP, Zivodarka Dacin, submitted to the 15th amendment. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here's a word from the People's Messenger of Life-dark Dacin.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u21010	Thank you. The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, Mr. Popov, honourable fellow MPs, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 15, which I would like to eliminate only one political over-emphasis, so that only the word "or" should be left out, and everything else remains in the text below. Here I would refer to the opening letter of Mr. Minister, in which he said that under the third "d" it was a depoliticalization of schools; indeed, in these years and more of our work, when we discussed so many different laws, never so many policies were present as when we discussed the laws on basic and secondary education. It is true that the participation was also taken by the MPs of the DOS coalition, which I absolutely welcome; however, some things do not stand, because it is past the time when you can blame the regime of Slobodan Milosevic, even if it is raining today. It doesn't go through anymore, people are looking for arguments and evidence for something that's been done. You're saying -- at the time of the Socialist rule, people were elected along the political line. I'll make a concrete example, there are 15 primary schools and so many directors on the territory of the municipality of Kikind. From this letter and number, there were three (3) members of the SPS, and everyone else was either members or even members of the current ruling coalition, because we managed the fact that it was professional and capable people who should be primarily good managers in their schools. Today, of course, it's totally the other way around, of 15 directors only for one, I'm not sure if he's a member of a ruling coalition party, but there were 18 unsettling parties on distribution of primary schools, because there were only 15 of them. These are the records of the fact that if politics has ever been, and is always present in our lives, it is now in schools, both primary and secondary, more than ever. Therefore, given the government's argument given here, which explains why school is established, this Article 15 does not apply at all, so I would disagree that the school should not protect the interests of the employees. I think every institution and organization should protect employees' interests. With the absence of this word "or," regardless of the government's explanation, nothing significant would change either in terms of this member or in terms of the law, let's once again not have there been politicization in schools, I always say -- both in health and culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u21011	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 52, against 118, there are no abstentions, 15 did not vote, a total of 185 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 15. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojana Alexic, Vladimir Andric, Marina Stamenkovic, Milan Radulovic and Nenad Lemajic. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He has the word National MP Marina Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u21012	The Honorable Presidency, the honourable People's MPs, the Democratic Party of Serbia is member 15. The bill, which is amended in Article 73 of the basic law, has been amended. Article 73, paragraph 1, after the word "programme", adds the words "or achieves them with unsettled shortcomings"; after the word "insults", the words "or humiliates" are added; after the word "teachers" is put to a point and stuck and add the words "insecure or unprofessionally performing the jobs of a teacher, a professional associate or educator, comes to work under the fact of alcohol and other intoxicating means, which reduce the working ability, prepares private students to whom he teaches or students of a school in which he teaches"; while the words "in a disciplinary procedure" are replaced by the words "in that a teacher, an expert associate or an educator will be cancelled". In this amendment to the Democratic Party of Serbia, I would especially like to highlight professors who give private lessons in the subjects they teach. She understood the situation in which the teachers had been in so far, so they were forced to give lessons because of the poor material condition, but in this amendment, it is particularly stressed that this refers to teachers who give private lessons from classes from which they teach, or in the school where they teach. Disciplinary responsibility in the bill exists if these phenomena occur. If disciplinary responsibility applies to other working organizations, including school as a special institution, where it should be for example, it should stand here to cancel the job contract for the teacher to comply with the Labour Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u21013	The word came from the minister of education and sports, Mr. Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u21014	For teachers, teachers, etc. The Labour Act is not applicable, but the Labour Relations Act in the State Authorities and this amendment cannot be legally incorporated.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u21015	The word has been passed by MP Bojana Alexic, an authorised representative of the DOS parliamentary group -- the Democratic Party of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u21016	According to the Legislative Committee, the amendment is legally possible. Then it's a discredition of the Serbian Parliament's Legislative Committee. It's kind of weird this explanation. Otherwise, it's clear why the amendment was submitted. This is about some abuses first.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u21017	He didn't accept the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u21018	Then I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u21019	National MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group, spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u21020	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am convinced that this entire member is actually a matter for the statutes of the school and that it is not his place here, but if we are already here, I must ask where is the draftr of the law in the Constitution found the basis that a teacher is punishing groups based on racial, national, language, religious and full membership. Our Constitution of the Republic of Serbia protects a citizen, an individual, and there are people here who know it better than I do. Only in Article 29(1) of the family has special protection and nowhere in the Constitution of Serbia is it said that a group that has sex or a group that has religious or political belongings enjoys any protection, so much that it cannot be disrespected or so that someone should lose his job. The question arises, what is the wish of the legislator, when so many different violations of some standard are placed in one member of the law. Are these just the basics? And here, this amendment has found a few more ground on which, if the director, if he has the right to make his own decision on it, he should suspend the teacher until the disciplinary procedure is over. This amendment we are now discussing is not complete or detailed. We could suddenly list cases that would deserve someone to be suspended from work immediately, but it was never legal matter. It's governed by the statutes. And maybe he can tell us the best about it, especially about this amendment, Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic, because he's here, he's registered for the quorum incessantly in the O.R., even though my eyes haven't seen him. Not now, is it? Don't tell me. However, whether or not he is here, I think he is competent to discuss this amendment, is mentioned in this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u21021	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 45, against 105, a abstentioned one, was not voted 35, a total of 186 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I ask the congregation service to provide me with a list of the MPs present. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Blazic. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by the MP Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u21022	Ladies and gentlemen, in front of the Serbian Radical Party, I have submitted an amendment to Article 15, which reads as follows: "Teacher, expert associate and educator who: does not achieve the objective and tasks of education and education; does not implement the curriculum and programme; it endangers or demeans groups and individuals with its behaviour by means of racial, national, language, religious and semi-distribution, or promotes such behaviour; physically punishes or insults the personality of students, the school director (now I will stand there) is moving away from teaching to making a decision in the disciplinary procedure. "After schooling director, I'm going to put "on the proposal of an educational counselor." It is a simple explanation that I am trying in logical order and connection between members to create some legality. You have already accepted the amendment to Article 6 submitted by the MPs, in which another authority is assigned to the counselor: to evaluate the quality of the work of teachers, professional associates and educators. It would be logical, therefore, that if he already had that authority and jurisdiction, he would also suggest to the director when it comes to a disciplinary procedure that follows from one of the lecturers, who can be left without a job; that such a huge thing does not happen by accident; that it is not about a self-willed director; that it is not about something that could in some way affect their interpersonal relations at school; that there is no reason for a personal conflict, but for one objectivity to be brought into all of this and in some way to avoid the possible self-will of the director. Therefore, this link between Articles 6 and 15 is clear enough that, in some way, the Ministry, through its educational advisor, is involved in one serious disciplinary procedure, to all of this written in Article 15.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u21023	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary gupre.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u21024	Ladies and gentlemen, this is another attempt that, after you have not accepted the amendment to Article 6, by accepting this amendment, you allow the Legislative Committee to intervene and that an educational advisor - who, in our opinion, should be the only expert on this and, of course, competent to assess whether a teacher does not carry out the objective and tasks of education and education - is going to be the one who asks the Director to suspend teachers until the end of the disciplinary procedure, if he still exists under the Law on Public Services, or the Law on State Administration, because it should not just leave it to the Director. The question arises, who is now in charge of the launch of the disciplinary procedure and I assume that it will be regulated by the statute, the Law on State Administration, the Law on Labour Relations in State Authorities or the Law on Public Services, anyway. It's quite a broad wording of Article 73 so she can survive like this, and she doesn't care if the Ministry is introduced through an educational inspector to come to school like this. In this way, the educational inspector, or Ministry of Education, would know what was going on in certain schools, especially what you remained in order for the educational inspector to assess the work of the school or the home of the students, and not what we were asking for in the amendment, to evaluate the teaching staff. That would be one more logical definition. There must be a lot of cases like this in practice, and not only are the students injured in this way, but so are many teachers. In collectives, of course, there is a lot of politicisation, a lot of division on the party basis, the sympathy of the professor's staff towards certain political parties and how they are threatened, and of course it breaks over the back of the students themselves, who are called and named because of politics or because of accepting a certain political option. Let us remember how much this has taken for the last two years without talking about years before, because indeed DOS and all the political parties within DOS and how they knew that they were using the difficult economic position of educational workers to indoctrinate young people and most young people's corpss, first of all, to carry out a revolution on October 5th. That's what we'd like, first of all, in schools that we're all interested in, to completely throw politics out of school benches. I doubt we'll make it this way, because it's gonna stay in the circle of school, and the Ministry won't have any picture of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u21025	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) Just to find out that the Electronic Voting and Record Service has sent me a list of MPs, which includes MP Cedomir Jovanovic, which means they are the false allegations of MP Tomislav Nikolic. (Tomislav Nikolic: Is that the determination of the quorum? ) List of Members present at 16,23, when you requested that it be established. (Tomislav Nikolic: I said he participated in the quorum. I can get you a list. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 46, against 97, a abstentioned one, did not vote 33, out of 177 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Predrag Canovic submitted to the 16th amendment. The government and the Education Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a National MP, Predrag Canovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u21026	Item 1 of Article 16. The bill reads: "In the course of professional training a teacher, an expert associate and an educator can acquire titles: a pedagogical counselor, mentor, instructor and senior pedagogical advisor". In the opinion of the Soviet Parliament group, the word "mentor" should be deleted here, as the mentor is not calling. The mentor is, according to his lexic meaning, a counselor teacher. So it's more of a function, not a calling. In addition, the function of a mentor can perform any person in one of these titles. So a mentor can also be a pedagogical counselor, and an instructor and a senior pedagogical counselor. Therefore, we believe that there is no room for "mentor" in Article 6. On the other hand, Article 2 of the same article gives the minister the authority to regulate professional training, advancement and acquisition of calling during the training of teachers, co-workers and educators. With our amendment, we propose that this attitude be defined in a way and appropriate institutions within which professional training will be carried out.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u21027	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 51, there are no 103 abstentions, no 26 vote, out of 180 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojana Alexic, Vladimir Andric, Marina Stamenkovic, Milan Radulovic and Nenad Lemajic. The government and the Education Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I find that the MP Bojana Alexic, on behalf of the applicants for the amendment to Article 16, withdrew this amendment. Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by MP Zeljo Huric. The government and the Education Committee have adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MP Milos Nesovic submitted to the 17th amendment. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The word has the People's MP Milos Nesovic, who submits the amendment to Article 17. It's a bill of law.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u21028	In front of the SPS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 17, which speaks of Article 79. The law. I propose that Article 79, paragraph 2, reads: "Teachers, teachers and teachers of class teaching who work for five or more years in villages far from the city, with difficult conditions of travel to work and other difficult working conditions, have the advantage of competing in urban and suburban schools." This would solve the issue of teacher’s, or teacher’s staff in remote villages, especially in mountainous and mountainous areas. I have a lot of examples in the territory of the Rasco district and in the territory of the Kingdom municipality. I think she'd get quality and good teachers, teachers and class teachers. I also think that a great injustice would be removed against young people who, when they are hired and who are more easily employed in the rural area in schools with a small number of students, cannot progress. I think it's just too bad for those teachers, teachers and class teachers, and I also think it's a big shame for society. For these reasons, I propose that the Assembly adopt this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u21029	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u21030	Ladies and gentlemen, the SRS parliamentary club will support this amendment by MP Nesovic for practical, as well as the reasons for the stimulation and rewards of these teachers, teachers and teachers who are ready to travel from the place of residence 50km to walk seven, eight kilometers to get to a school with five or ten students. There is one village, Kamenica, 50km from Kragujevac to Milanovac, transport to one place from which another four kilometers must go on foot to school to teach during the day. Now you see how much time that teacher spends during the day to hold four or five hours a day. It should indeed be the interest of society to reward, after a certain number of years of such hard work, which is nothing more than enthusiasm because it is working for the same money, that when that teacher competes in the vacant job that is closer to his place of residence, he still has some priority, because he proved and showed what kind of teacher he is and how much he cares about doing his job. Of course, I also think of teachers who might be able to pay that salary and make money by giving private lessons, and, well, they want to and love to be in class with children, or it's their call. We also have to admit that today's teaching invitation is indeed enthusiasm and love for children, more than the possibility of material survival from that job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u21031	The Minister of Education, Mr. Gašo Knezevic, called for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u21032	The Ministry has a lot of hearing about these problems, of course. However, Article 35. The Constitution of Serbia (1/90) is available to everyone under the same conditions as the job and function. This would be a stretch, and therefore the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u21033	Thank you. It can't be a replica. National MP Vladimir Garcevic, an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group, spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u21034	The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, I accept in principle that we all adhere to the Constitution, but I do not accept what the current government is doing: when it suits the Constitution, and when it does not suit it, the Constitution deletes. Let's set the criteria once. If the Constitution is for one, so is everything. So, and this explanation now that it can't because of the Constitution, I don't think it's good. The other day, a traveling worker applied for a job and a beginner's worker for 20 years. Do you think a working man who travels for 20 years got a job? It's not. If we want to be moral as humans and to be represented in areas that are far from the city, and if the younger ones accept it until a certain time, then we need to find criteria to help and work out. Also, in order not to go out afterwards, and regarding Article 17, I ask that the Legislative Committee determine in which way the combination of two amendments was made in Article 17, although the Government withdrew the amendment on the Enlightenment Committee, it is non-existent; and there I said that I would ask and ask nicely to determine whether an amendment that withdraws to have a legal fact could be made? He can't. The government withdrew their amendment, and then they made combinations. I know that when an amendment that has different facts is adopted in the Assembly, it is the Legislative Committee that will propose a resolution to the Assembly. I ask you to keep this section in mind by the Legislative Committee and inform us during tomorrow whether the creation of this part of the amendment in Article 17 was in accordance with the rules and the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u21035	Anyone else want a word? Replica, representative of the SRS parliamentary group. The basis for the replica? Misreading the reasons for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u21036	The minister called the Constitution, and that's one general decree, so I'm going to read the whole article 35. The Constitution. There is a civilised country, everyone has the right to work, it is not discriminatory - there is a guarantee of freedom of work, a free choice of profession and employment and participation in management, and everyone is on equal terms available job and function. There is nothing problematic about it that someone who has met all the conditions for establishing a working relationship elsewhere, as well as another candidate, would have had a priority because he worked for many years under difficult conditions. Remember when we passed the Law of Judges, what we gave all the judges who worked in some environments where there were not enough frames, so an apartment and a higher salary, so I don't know what. If he's also the minister at the head of one administration, which is his car, which is his official apartment, which is his special terms, if that's how you want us to interpret the Constitution. We're misreading him. It would not violate the Constitution by which the Government would accept this amendment, and we would not be in a situation where our schools are closed, as they are closed because there is no teacher staff who is willing to work in remote areas under such conditions.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u21037	Anybody else answer for a word? Yeah. ) National MP Slobodan Pavlovic, deputy president of the SPS parliamentary group; and yes, he spoke to an authorised representative, but come on.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u21038	Does that mean I wasn't entitled to the Rules of Procedure to get my word?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u21039	As part of the debate on amendments, the president, deputy or authorised representative is, but go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u21040	I asked for a word, I could advertise the Rules of Procedure or use the office of president, but I won't be long. My colleagues and colleagues won't mind me, will they? I'll be very brief. So, my intervention or what I came forward for is not that I am dissatisfied with the way our MP explained the amendment, nor the intervention by the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group, but because of the intervention of Minister of Education, Mr Gaš Knezevic, who is not here and who has called on the Constitution as an obstacle to accepting this amendment. Definitely, and my colleague was talking about it now, and that's exactly what I was going to say. If they understand the idea, then, here we are not working to propose an amendment that would be contrary to the law, the Constitution, etc., but is an amendment in its spirit, it has a moral, social, economic and ethical dimension, and whatever other dimension you want. In this way, we would actually be motivated, on the one hand, by young people to accept working in the outlying departments and schools, and in the hill-mounted mountains, and you have here in Šumadia, and I have in the municipality of Mladenovac, which is in Belgrade, where it travels, etc. And that way they would support it, and the Constitution wouldn't hurt at all, and they wouldn't sin. I claim that it would also be in the spirit of the Constitution and therefore I think that Minister Knezevic should accept this on behalf of the Government because he does not disturb the spirit of the law or the provision of the Constitution to which he is called. Thank you and thank you for the word I got.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u21041	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) I am putting the amendment to article 17. For 50, against 80, a abstentioned one, did not vote 35, out of 166 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 17th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Radulovic and Bojana Aleksic. The government and the Education Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. In the sense of Article 145. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Education, tabled an amendment to Article 17. At the meeting of the Committee on Education, the Proposer's representative agreed with this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 17th Amendment was jointly submitted by Rodoljub Sabic, Vlatko Sekulović and Branko Pavlovic. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The word is made by MP Branko Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u21042	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, our amendment to Article 17. We propose the draft law to be the position of Article 1 79. The law reads: "The teacher, the expert associate and the educator, based on the competition, chooses the competition committee in the composition: the director, the professional service representative and the expert representative, and in the opinion of the school board". What do we want with this amendment? We want to object, to the greatest extent possible, the choice of teaching staff. A small depression relative to the position of the Legislative Committee is against it, and I must say that this is a wrong legal interpretation. It would not be possible, in accordance with the existing legal system, to provide for this by means of a sublaw. It's possible by law in two senses. In one because it's a later law, and in another because it's a special law that would only apply to the selection of teaching staff. Why? Because in the selection of businesses there is some owner who cares about it, and here, when it comes to our children, when it comes to schooling, it is extremely important that there are more precise and better norms who and how can even choose this teaching chamber. As for calling on the Constitution and an equal chance of employment, our amendment is towards that constitutional solution, because we say, based on the competition. If you say it's equal to no competition, then whoever has the information has the advantage, and when it's based on the competition, it's much more consistent with the Constitution than this other solution. So, don't pay attention to the position of the Legislative Committee, they are legally wrong, so to speak. How do we objectify? We do it two ways. We do it once by introducing rules of the profession. So, according to the rules of the profession, someone gets elected. This shows the composition of this committee: Director, Professional Service Representative and Agent Representative, and in the opinion of the school board previously obtained. In another way, we objectively objectify the public, by prescribing the obligation to call a competition. Therefore, we say, the choice of teaching staff objectively, based on the rules of the profession and the public. The government says it's not acceptable for us. Now I ask you, are the rules of the profession and the public acceptable to you? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u21043	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 26, against 88, the abstention of three, did not vote 46, out of 163 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 17th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic, Milos Lukic, Petar Petrovic and Adam Urosevic. The government and the Education Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The word has a National MP, Petar Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u21044	The Honored Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Assembly Group of the Soviet Union has tabled an amendment to Article 17. The draft law amending and supplementing the Fundamental School Act, which refers to Article 79 of the basic text of the Law; we ask that Article 2 of Article 79 be deleted and that, after Article 1, paragraphs 2 and 3 are added, which reads: "Extremely from Article 1 of this Article, because of the urgency of teaching and replacement of the temporarily absent teacher, the working relationship at a certain time can be established without competition, until the end of the election procedure after the competition. If the competition is not registered by candidates who meet the requirements of the school teacher, a working relationship for a certain time can also be established with a person who does not meet all the prescribed conditions, the longest until the end of the school year." Why did we propose this? According to Article 2(2). The law on the work of the provisions of this law applies also to employees of public services, and that is to say to employees of the school, if the law is not different. The basic school law does not regulate the question of establishing a working relationship at a specified time, but a way of establishing a working relationship with a public advertising obligation is regulated on the basis of a competition in Article 79(1). The elementary school law. This means that a working relationship at a certain time at a school can only be established in a way determined by a special law. In view of the specificity of performing educational-experienced work, the proposed amendment aims to ensure continuity in the teaching process in certain and exceptional situations by the end of the school year by selecting teachers at a certain time. The government rejected this amendment with a very short explanation that it was made an amendment proposed by the Committee on the Education of the National Sense. We from the Soviet Parliament group ask only one question: why do we write amendments to the proposed text if the government or committees first look at them, so they take them as their own and propose them for amendments. Then give us a text on which we will not write amendments, and then we will not simply try to study the proposed texts of the laws that are in force, etc. That is why I propose that this amendment be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u21045	Anybody else answer for a word? Yes, MP Vladimir Garcevic, representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u21046	I now say this, for the sake of the public, the Serbian government has prescribed a large number of amendments to the MPs. On the other hand, the amendment of the Education Committee could not go because it was not conditioned by anything. Therefore, the amendment of the Committee on Education did not exist until the day of its decision on the Committee itself. An amendment that does not adopt the Assembly cannot produce any facts here. So I asked that the Assembly be made known about this part of the problem, and that was not done. It's going fast and it wants to cross quickly. You can make any decisions you want. However, what was done with Article 17 does not comply with the Rules of Procedure, or Article 145. I ask that it be determined by the Assembly, and most may decide, but the contrary, because the government has withdrawn its amendment and it has no legal fact further. That is why I propose, since it was a similar amendment to this Soviet Union, that the amendment be accepted as such and that it solves a complete problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u21047	Anybody else answer for a word? If not, I'm putting the amendment to article 17. For 31, against 85, a abstentioned one, they did not vote 43, a total of 160 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Rodoljub Sabic, Vlatko Sekulovic and Branko Pavlovic submitted a joint amendment, proposing that new members of 17a and 17b be added after Article 17. The Government, the Committee on Education and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. On behalf of the applicants, the amendment has the word of MP Branko Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u21048	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with this amendment, we have tried to propose a small reform shift in the Bill on Amendments and Supplements, which is possible and which does not require any special additional funding. It's long, I won't read to you, I'll explain what's going on. We are trying to relieve the scope of direct teaching by this amendment and thus give them more time for professional training, which would give us more quality teaching. That is the basic idea and concept of this amendment. What it's about -- usually parents ignore and think the teacher's obligation is just what he does in 45 minutes an hour. Similar to those who look at us here, so they think being an MP is just sitting in benches and pressing some buttons. There's a lot of what's preparation, work, committees, etc. That's right, there's a very large amount of work that teachers do outside of direct teaching. So Article 17a proposes that the number of direct lessons be reduced from 24 to 20 for all, and this next 17b, which we very much care about, proposes additional motivation. In fact, for teaching staff, the possibility is provided that if they speed up their own expertise so they are going to call (so they are now lined up: a pedagogical counselor, mentor, instructor or senior pedagogical advisor); or, if they have a parallel experience of 15, 20, 25 or 30 years, they gradually reduce the number of classes of direct teaching, not much, for one, two hours each, as they go into higher callings. So either you're going to step up and get even more space to do this other professional work, or we appreciate your years, work experience, so if you want the burden; being a 30-year teacher in direct follow-up is very hard and demanding; so we suggest you reduce the number of hours in direct follow-up. So that's the stimulating part: that the faster we get the quality of teaching, or the faster we relieve those people who have already invested a lot of things in teaching and that they don't have to be in direct follow-up. That's the meaning of our amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u21049	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. For 28, against 82, a abstentioned one, was not voted 45, out of 156 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 18. The amendment was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The Committee on Education has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 20 of the amendment. The Committee on Education has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 20th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Anita Beretic, Dragisa Popovic and Jakov Stamenkovic. The government and the Board of Education did not accept this amendment, with the Committee's conclusion that this amendment, in essence, was covered by the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which became an integral part of the bill's proposal. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? He has the word National MP Dragisa Popovic (votes from the hall: theme).
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u21050	Dear Presidency, the subject is the elementary school law, to inform these uninformed. Mr. Minister, Mr. Popov, with regard to the reform course of the government of the Republic of Serbia, as before and in recent days, the most flattering marks from the most respected representatives of the international community arrive. An attempt to dispute the course from this pay phone is nothing more than an attempt to disqualify the government of the Republic of Serbia, rarely for purely political reasons. And now I'm moving on to the amendment. Since this government is reforming, I am now addressing the reform minister - Mr. Minister, it is excellent that you suggested that the composition of the school board be 3+3+3. Why is that good? There are three stakeholders here: they are teachers, and they are represented by over three of their members; three parents are represented on the school board; we expect the Ministry to make a guide on what we said - democratisation - that democratic procedure in the election of these three parents on the school board is respected; further, the local environment is presented with three members, regardless of what political option is in power; it is a democratic procedure and it is democracy. In the bill there is a provision - the school board selects a director based on the competition (candidates appear) and according to the collective opinion obtained. What this provision produces - it provides an opportunity for self-management at school, produces a group lobby ("I am for Peru and someone is for Janka"); a year before the director or selects a new lobby group are re-elected. You, Minister, have said well - the school board. Yeah, all right, but you've shown this provision mistrust to that school board. I appreciate that the local community of the school board will delegate three men, the most professional, the most influential, who will take care of the school. So this provision on obtaining a teacher's higher school opinion is not necessary. Next, you give consent to the director's choice. If you do not give consent, the procedure is repeated. I urge you to accept this amendment because this is really unnecessary. We'll only have problems, and the procedure won't be improved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u21051	The word has a minister in the Serbian government, Mr. Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u21052	Mr. Popovic, part two has been accepted and we don't talk about it anymore. The first part is problematic. Here, as there is the autonomy of the university, I think that once in the future there will be autonomy of schools, with pre-election promises and all our actions, and as DOS, being focused on exactly that. I think we must respect the will of the collective. She's not final. But we have to let the collective try to appoint its director. In fact, I hope that the school boards will, in most cases, confirm the collective's decision. For those cases where it doesn't happen, where there's a difference between one and the other, there's this possibility that the minister won't give consent. I honestly want it never to happen, but it's possible. Therefore, the school's collectives, although I fully understand your intention, we must give the opportunity to have a greater impact on the selection of school directors, because they will cooperate with that director in the future. That's the reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u21053	Anybody else answer for a word? The basis for the replica? [[Sagar.]] The word is made by MP Dragisa Popovic, a replica of the minister's presentation on the basis of wrong interpretation.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u21054	The government is reforming, you know that. Mr. Secretary, the principal of the school is not in a similar role as the dean, that the opinion of the collective be dominant. Practically, if this provision remains, we make the school collective a closed system. I can say for myself that I have results in education, verified, I have work experience, and if I want to apply for a school director with a solution like this, I will never be chosen and I have the best features. So, we've built a closed system here; and I'm interested as a high school teacher -- is my salary good and it bothers me more; it's interested in working conditions, ministers; and relationships with students. No more than that.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u21055	The word is attended by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, a representative of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u21056	The Serbian Radical Party has submitted an amendment to this article which my colleague will explain, but I went out for a pay phone to break certain, to say, the principled differences that we hear from the Minister's mouth constantly when it comes to autonomy. Simply, the words -- the autonomy of the university, we absorbed when we talked about the University Law, and it's fully interpreted. Now we want to talk about the autonomy of primary schools, and I believe high schools; when it comes to that, the minister will speak the same way. On the other hand, we find that it is a public service that cannot be autonomous of the state, especially when it comes to the appointment and selection of directors. Tell me now, Minister, whether it is the state's greater interest to meddle in the selection of the director of a public enterprise, regardless of whose public enterprise, local self-government or the state of Serbia, and when it comes to the director of a secondary school, which has 1,600 to 2,000 pupils, 200 to 300 employees, then the state has no interest in mixing it, but it leaves it to some self-government authorities; and now it is like autonomy, which teachers at a teaching council will declare who will be their director. And, then, when something doesn't work at school, when teachers are unhappy, the minister says - go to the director, choose him yourself, as you feel, the Serbian government is not your fault, nor is the minister's fault. Serbia's government will not take any responsibility for itself and under the autonomy company in fact wants to introduce anarchy into primary and secondary schools, and unfortunately we have already introduced that into universities by adopting the University Law. I call on all citizens of Vrsac and the surrounding area to come to the rally of the Serbian Radical Party on Friday at 15.00 p.m. to discuss all these devastating moves by the Serbian government.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u21057	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 25, against 104 abstentions, two did not vote 33, a total of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 20. The amendment was submitted by MP Zeljo Huric. The government and the Education Committee did not accept this amendment, with the Committee's conclusion that this amendment, in essence, was covered by the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which became an integral part of the bill's proposal. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here's a word from MP Zeljo Huric.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u21058	Dear Mr. Minister, Mr. Popov, as well as the other members of the government, my amendment is in fact a correction - a correction of a purely material error that was subdued in the text. The third point of the text states that the school director, whose founder is the Government, is elected by the school board, etc. So, according to the Law on Local Self-Government, the founders of primary schools are local self-government, so we internally agreed to accept the amendment and I would still not discuss it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u21059	Anybody else answer for a word? Here's a word from Minister Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u21060	It is a technical correction given the appearance of the new legal text and the government is in agreement, we accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u21061	I find that on behalf of the Government, the minister has accepted the amendment. Since the Committee on Education was not in agreement with this amendment, I would ask the Members of Parliament to declare their acceptance of the amendment to Article 20. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 92, against 43, a abstentioned one, did not vote 30, a total of 166 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment most of the votes. To Article 20. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Rodoljub Sabic, Vlatko Sekulović and Branko Pavlovic. The government and the Education Committee have not accepted this amendment, with the Committee's conclusion that this amendment is essentially covered by the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Serbia which has become an integral part of the Bill's proposal. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here's a word from MP Branko Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u21062	I'm not going to explain because I didn't get what the government accepted. It has been accepted that the director must also have high school training, which was the meaning of this amendment, so that the Social Democratic Party MPs will no longer explain the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u21063	I find that the MP has withdrawn the amendment to Article 20, which ceases to be the subject of discussion in particular. To Article 20. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic, Milos Lukic, Petar Petrovic and Adam Urosevic. The government and the Education Committee have not accepted this amendment, with the Committee's conclusion that this amendment is essentially covered by the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Serbia which has become an integral part of the Bill's proposal. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here's a word from MP Petar Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u21064	We'll get a long way with this kind of reform, when we get the basic text of the law as we get it, so when the government sees a dozen amendments come with the same text they accept. If it is known that children in the first grade of primary school have to learn from teachers who graduate from the Faculty of Education, it was illogical to make a proposal that the school director could be the man who has the least professional training. I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u21065	I find the amendment to article 20 has been withdrawn. National MP Goran Cvetanovic submitted the 20th amendment. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The word is made by MP Goran Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u21066	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, I have submitted an amendment on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party to change in Article 20 of Article 4 of the School, whose founder is the Government, the school board is elected on the basis of a public competition and according to the teacher's council's opinion - and that the school's director, whose founder is the Minister of Education and Sports, is appointed on the basis of a public competition, in the opinion of the local self-government assembly on whose territory the school is located, as well as that the positions 5, 6,7 and 8 are deleted. First of all, when the Serbian Radical Party's amendment to Article 9 was adopted, the minister of education said he accepts among other things because the minister's intelligences are shrinking. With this amendment, we just want the Minister's intelligence to be the way it's supposed to be, which means he's the most responsible for setting up a director. We've already said about the school board, first of all, that it's the past that brings us back to the self-management period. According to article 24, where nine members are said to be the school board, three of which are representatives of local self-government, three teachers' councils and three from the parents' council. Simply, there will always be an opportunity for the minister to choose for the director, meaning a personal solution that he does not like, deny, and literally restores the whole cycle, or a vicious circle; it shows that the fact that the minister wants to free himself of responsibility, that if the director is good, then he is the most responsible for it, and if the director is not good, then others are responsible or have set him up. So it's high time to know exactly who's responsible and the minister takes responsibility for the appointed directors, because ultimately, the government is responsible for every director in education, both in primary and secondary education.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u21067	National MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group, spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u21068	Since MP Goran Cvetanovic explained the amendment, as Gordana Pop-Lazic said that we have a rally Friday at 15 o'clock in Vrsac, just to warn the promoter, I am sorry that the minister is not there, he is a graduate lawyer, by accepting the amendment of Zeldz Huric, you deleted the words "whose is the founder of the government". The three said, "The school director whose founder is the government is elected by the school board on the basis of a public competition and according to the teacher's board's opinion." By erasing the word "whose Founder of Government" you have brought to the same level of all schools, regardless of the founder. I ask you, if a private person starts a primary school where he is now obliged to be elected by the school board of directors, and that the school board appoints and resolves the congregation of the municipality, or the congregation of the city. What do you mean, you have someone else's capital all you want? He must meet the school programme, he must meet the obligations set out by the educational adviser, the inspector, and the school management cannot be left to local self-government; it has not funded that school and does not fund it. You, on the one hand, deny as a state that the minister chooses the principal of the school, so you say - we give autonomy to the school, so local self-government will choose the school board, the school board of directors, and on the other hand those who invest their capital, which is the most needed for you right now, you set rigorous conditions for them. He doesn't care if he's the teacher's representative asking who's gonna be headmaster at school. He invested his money, his capital, to raise the children, to charge the tuition, and what the hell is he going to be, he's got all over the world, and he wants to make some income from it, and you're going to set him up: a third of the congregation of the municipality, a third of the parents, a third of the teachers, and then that body will choose the school director, and he'll stay away as the owner, and he won't be able to influence the decision at all. I think that the acceptance of any amendment withdraws the review of the proposal, and in particular the repercussions that it will have on some other provisions of the bill. You should have considered accepting this amendment more seriously, rather than having the minister decide whether the amendment will accept it or not based on the current mood. This is still legislative activity, and it's a very serious activity, if you didn't know.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u21069	Replica, MP Zeljo Huric.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u21070	Mr. Nikolic, you have not read the complete article 20. In the last attitude, it says, look well, "the director of music and ballet schools, founded by another legal or physical person, chooses the founder". So whoever starts private schools he's going to set up and choose the director. There's nothing controversial about it. The director will be chosen by the one who started the shower and everything is said. It's not exactly what you said. As for your subject, since you are still so rude, I must take some other steps. I give you the discipline of a class elder, and if you continue by acting like one, you will have to bring your parents. You're acting like a bad kid. Your actions are evil, and your mind is obviously a child.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u21071	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u21072	First of all, Mr. Zeljo Huric had no basis for replication. The fact that his name was heard in my discussion by no member of the Rules of Procedure is the basis for replication. I didn't interpret his exposure, not wrong, not true, and that's where you've done the violation of the Rules of Procedure, giving in, counting on you to have enough votes to adopt this bill. As a teacher, Mr. Huric, let me say that the provisions of this House are forbidden to defile, discriminate, insult the group, regardless of their racial, religious, full commitment. This is a parliamentary group of the Serbian Radical Party, which, Mr. Huric, always calls you Zeljo brothers, you should respect that. You've got bigger objections amongst the ones you're with.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u21073	National MP Zoran Cirkovic, deputy president of the DOS-New Serbia parliamentary group, spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u21074	You were away for a little while, Minister, so I got the impression that people here don't know what the agenda is. We're talking about supplementals and amendments to the elementary school law. There's not a single private elementary school, at least it hasn't been established so far. The mere schools, people's schools are people's and state's concerns. I doubt it will be, unless you make it in your house, but you won't have a student.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u21075	Anybody else answer for a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u21076	I don't know what I'm irritated by all these guys here to go out for this pay phone and talk to me. What I said to this man today, I didn't even notice he was there. What's the right for you to say there won't be a student in my house? On what grounds? Do you want to go to a fertility test or what do you want?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u21077	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 15, against 87, the two abstentions, did not vote 62, out of 166 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Radojko Petrovic submitted to the 20th amendment. The government and the Education Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Radojko Petric.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u21079	On behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 20 of this law, which regulates the selection of primary school directors. The amendment requires that a provision be introduced into the law that, if the minister refuses to give consent to the election, he is obliged to give an explanation in writing of the reasons for not giving consent within 15 days of the date of delivery of the school board's decision. It is only after that notice that a new competition should be called. It's illogical to call a contest without any notice coming in. Starting from the fact that the election after a public competition is conducted by a school board which, as we have seen, is indeed representative of the representatives of local self-government, the teaching council and the advice of the school's parents, and that the director is elected by a secret vote and after a declaration of the school's collective, it is logical that the minister of education is obliged to provide an explanation in writing for which he did not give consent. Why doesn't the Government accept this amendment? What are these reasons why the minister does not provide an explanation why he does not agree to the selection of directors? If the minister does not trust the school collective and the school board and their knowledge of the person of the proposed candidate, why does he not state the facts he has at his disposal and why the support, or the choice of the proposed candidate, is denied? If that attitude is based on the findings of educational advisors, who perform the tasks of expert-pedagogical supervision or educational inspectors who perform the tasks of overseeing the legality of the school's work, no one will mind, and that should be known. However, if they remain silent and do not state the reasons, the situation on the ground will be complicated, primarily in schools. There will be various suspicions. The proposed candidates for directors are thus placed on the pillar of shame. It will be said that he has done some work that makes him unworthy to perform the duties of the school director or, behold, they in the collective, in the school board and in their midst, do not know about it. They'll be wondering who was spying on that school, whose account and who the reports are being sent to. Does that look like a police or a state of law? On the other hand, there will be the belief that politics is a matter of a party's political identity. The day before yesterday, you, Minister, said here that during the past period the school's director's election was politically colored and that he would not be allowed to do so. However, the practice of coming DOS to power has denied it. As you can see, it will remain in the future, with solutions like this for sure. If the government wants the top professional and morally clean people elected as head of the school, it will exclude the political membership of DOS or any party. It won't, and it can't be a basic criterion. In that sense, Your Honors Minister, I expect you to accept this amendment and say that this really needs to be done, that the minister is obliged to respond, which is why, after the procedure has been carried out, does not give consent, that good relations be preserved in the collective and because of those candidates who may not be set up. Otherwise, in principle, it makes sense that the minister then gives consent, but at least to explain this. I think the adoption of this amendment is also a contribution to the growth of trust in the rule of law and in the rule of law in general.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u21080	Anybody else answer for a word? The word is by MP Slobodan Pavlovic, deputy president of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u21081	Mrs. Micic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Minister Knezevic, my fellow magistrate, Radojko Petric, is very correct, successful, reasoned and hopefully professionally explained the SPS amendment, which he submitted. Not even to add to it, not to take it away, not to spoil it. I want to support the amendment and ask all MPs for it, no matter which party they belonged to, because this is not a party issue, but it has a very different dimension, and it is hidden in the reasoning of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The amendment, which suggests that Article 20 states that within 15 days, the minister gives an explanation of his decision on granting consent, says he "does not accept it for the reason that it is the discretionary right of the minister that, while not writing, the conditions of candidates for selecting a teacher's board of directors and opinions are met. But that's why he writes something else. Also, the "proposed deadline" that was the essence of the amendment of the MPs of Master Petric, you say is "unsuitable, given the large number of schools elected by the directors". So, did you answer this question not to accept the amendment because you won't give any answers and explanations at all, or because the 20-day deadline is inappropriate, as you wrote. Each of the MPs, the public and all who follow it, in the end I was a deputy minister, knows that you as a minister will not read all the materials you receive from all the schools, you will not write an explanation of why you give, or why you do not give consent. Of course, that's what co-workers do on the basis of both the law and the documentation you get from school. You sign. Therefore, I would say and apologize for the term, and you would have to accept this personally as a minister, not because of the vaspersonal, but as a minister, because if you don't accept it, it means that you are abdicating yourself from responsibility for those who are not elected. Then everything my colleague Radojko Petrovic said will be confirmed. What we're looking for is not the opposite of the idea of the law, or the law of the ministries, or the powers of the minister, but it has a broader dimension which is why you could and should accept it. I suggest that even a co-worker who's sufflocating it, I've seen it before, this amendment of ours accepts.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u21082	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 36, against 102 abstentions, there was no 33 vote, out of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 20th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojana Alexic, Vladimir Andric, Marina Stamenkovic, Milan Radulovic and Nenad Lemajic. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does anyone sign up for a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Bojana Alexic, in the name of the amendment applicants, withdraws this amendment. National MP Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 21st amendment. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u21083	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the SRS wanted this amendment to make it clear in the bill who was responsible for carrying out the tasks and solutions of educational inspectors and professional associates. Under the draft law in Article 21, the school director shall take steps to carry out the duties of an educational inspector and an educational advisor. According to the SRS amendment, the words "take measures to execute" are replaced by the words "execution". It is very illogical, especially in Articles 4 and 6 where the duties of an educational inspector, and in particular in point 8) are specified, are ordered by the educational inspector to remove irregularities and deficiencies within a certain period and in point 9) - the solution orders the enforcement of the prescribed measure which has not been carried out, and the director, under this law, follows only to take measures to comply with the orders. It's very illogical and I think this amendment should be accepted. When it comes to directors and how they've been elected so far, I can say that Mr. Minister uses double standards and different interpretations and applies a law that has so far been in force, as it suits him. About a year ago, a competition was launched for selecting the principal of the elementary school in the municipality of Kučevo, the village of Voljevo; the entire school board voted to remain the old school director at the workplace. Even the school's collective has come to terms with the proposal. And you, Mr. Minister, despite a petition of about 300 citizens who also requested to remain an old director, decided to appoint a man who was not voted by any member of the school board, who was not supported by the locals whose children go to school; you annulled the competition and appointed as acting director of the school just because he was a member of the DOS party. So much for depoliticalizing, independence and democracy schools.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u21084	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 35, against 106, the abstentions were not voted 25 out of 166 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 22, the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Janjic. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Are any of the authorised participants in the debate applying for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 34, against 99, the abstentions were not voted 33, out of 166 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 22nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Anita Beretic, Dragisa Popovic and Jakov Stamenkovic. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Are any of the authorised participants in the debate applying for a word on this amendment? No, I don't. Who pulled the amendment? On behalf of the group of MPs, MP Jakov Stamenkovic withdrew the amendment to Article 22. The 22nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojana Alexic, Vladimir Andric, Marina Stamenkovic, Milan Radulovic and Nenad Lemajic. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Is anyone applying for a word under this amendment? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter by Bojana Alexic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u21085	When we talked about inspection surveillance, we just mentioned this Article 22 and the amendment that the DSS parliamentary group submitted to this member. This is about the Director's discharge and all those in charge of dispensing the Director, and in this case it's the school board, there's the Minister of Education. This is the following: we are going back to the story of the issue of school space, that is, the story that the DSS tells us that these things are fat and that is why we insist on it so much. In fact, I will repeat what I said in the morning that the school space in a large number of schools became a subject of gray economy and that there were directors before, and even now, who have misused their position and issued this school space without prior law of consent, and no one controlled it, and very often did not pay attention to it. The result was that money was taken for the issue of physical halls, cabinets, schoolyards where illegal facilities were also made, and that cash went into the hands, that is, the pockets of private faces. That's not good, and this amendment is meant to stop it. Now let's repeat that, according to the Law of Assets of the Republic, the school space is in the possession of the Republic. However, just a moment, in order for the school space to be issued at all, it is necessary to conclude the contract, it needs the consent of the Republic of Serbia's Property Directorate, Article 8a of Article 2. Law on assets owned by the Republic of Serbia. Otherwise the contracts are void. Article 8a(4) The law on assets in the possession of the Republic - this is exactly the provision that was most often not respected in practice. Why didn't she respect herself? Because it was not explicitly stated in a member of the law relating to the discharge of the director and the silences were tolerated and what was not to be tolerated, although the law did exist. We now insist that this be numbered as one of the reasons why the Director should be dismissed, especially because the elementary school law is now prescribing which person, or which authority is authorized to sign the contract. The previous law did not correctly define this possibility, i.e. it did not know who this authorised authority was to sign.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u21086	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? Please, MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u21087	I just wanted to comment on one part of this amendment concerning the addition of an attitude that the school's director should be resolved and if he concludes or cancels a contract on giving to use or renting a school space without the consent of the Republic of Serbia's Property Directorate or if he is unlawfully acting in carrying out the extended activities of the school. We are witnessing that in our primary and secondary schools not only gymnasiums are rented but also classrooms for some additional activities that bring profit to school. The necessity of the law changes, as our people say, so schools are in short supply of money for what they should have -- and that's at least chalk, and there was a year when they couldn't even buy journals in schools, although they know whose obligation it is, and who should finance this basic material consumption -- they're going through a lot of different ways. At the same time that the government doesn't accept such an amendment, we hear from the Minister of Education that it comes out with claims and messages from parents and says, instead of buying the perfume to a teacher of 100 marks, give better 100 marks to that fund which is now prescribed by this law, so the school will, of course, have the means transparently available. This government should finally and everyone at DOS decide what they want. Are we parents going to finance the school ourselves or will the state take it upon itself? If we're already as parents, as taxpayers, paid everything the state asks us to, if the primary school is free, the school should get everything from the state that it needs to do. For you, Mr. Minister, as Minister of Education, I must tell you that today, on many occasions, you have harshly violated some of the basic rules of Serbian language and used some of the words, such as: respect. I pray to all the students and all the public who sees us not taking it for granted. It absolutely does not exist in Serbian, regardless of what the minister of education said. For you, Mr. Minister, one mathematical question because you referred to my discussion when we talked in principle about this law, saying it was obvious that someone had been going to elementary school for 15 years, because I claimed to be a 15-year member of the parent's council. I'm going to ask you one logical mathematical question, which is about the level of a fourth grade child: if parents have three children, so one is in the first year of school, the second is in the second year of high school, and the third is in fifth grade, how many parents came to parenting meetings at that elementary school? I'll tell you now, so you don't count, 16 years. That's when I said 15, but it's 16 years old. But as things stand, Mr. Minister, my children may have to go to high school for eight years. ...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u21088	I'm warning you, time's over.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u21089	... How things are in DOS schools now.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u21090	The Minister of Education, Mr. Gašo Knezevic, called for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u21091	The amendment of the DSS Group is impossible to accept at this time, because acceptance would mean a partial acceptance, because the concept differs from the first part of this second. And that's all you have to say no to.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u21092	National MP Vladimir Garcevic, an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group, also spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u21093	I've been listening here a lot of time to educate you on this, these funds are huge, they're coming... Please, you took power a year and a half ago. You've appointed your directors, you've said that these directors are honest, good people, honest, and you're transparent. Why didn't you stop it? It's not the kind of situation in education, individual cases can't be the reason for attacking people who do that job. Probably there are now and there were certain individual cases, but they can't talk about so many schools that that's the situation. Please, when you define a profession, it's not good from this pay phone to talk like that. Let's look at education as a whole that works in difficult conditions, in complex conditions, that raises and performs generations. I don't want to do it now for the directors who are DOS (all of them, maybe some of them are left by accident) to say that they do it, maybe there are some cases. Don't draw conclusions for the profession completely through individual cases. I ask all of us who are here to protect our profession, and where there are discrepancies about keeping it in its root. I think it's our duty, MPs and the Ministry of Education.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-04-24-0.u21094	If no one's applying for a word anymore, I'll put the amendment to the vote. For 47, against 84, a abstentioned one, was not voted 29, a total of 161 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 22 of the amendment. The Education Committee has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Ladies and gentlemen, we would like to conclude today's work and debate in detail and to decide on amendments to the Amendments Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on High Schools will continue tomorrow. Bon appétit.
