ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16726	Dear Madam President, Madam Vice-President, honourable fellow Members of the People, the distinguished guests, this member foresees those entrusted tasks by the Republic of the Autonomous Province relating to higher education. Mr. Bora Stanimirovic suggests that a complete member be deleted. I respect his explanation, because as you have heard, it is against those powers that are being trusted, but the bottom line is that these guidelines are not listed in this bill, but are regulated, and will be regulated by the law on higher and higher education, precisely by the law on university. That is true, but I believe that every act, every law must have support in some higher act, and therefore the future law on the university must have support, a fundamental thing to be based on in some higher act, which is for me precisely this bill on extending the jurisdiction of the autonomous province. Therefore, with all due respect to Mr Stanimirovic, his contribution and expertise in the field of education, I still have to propose to the National Assembly that this amendment, for these reasons that I have stated, should not be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16727	Thank you. Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. ) I put the amendments tabled by the MPs MrSrboljub Zivanovic and Bora Stanimirovic on Article 14. For 52, against 91, abstentioned 29, four of the 176 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 14th amendment, with correction, were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Deretic and Zoran Novakovic. Representative, Government and Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. The word has been given by MP Jovan Deretic, who submits the amendment to Article 14.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16728	The Honorable Presidency, honourable fellow MPs, respected listeners, we have submitted an amendment to Article 14, which says that - an autonomous province appoints a head of several schools; it appoints a part of the management body as a representative of the founders of higher schools. According to all the positive laws, one who is the founder and who has invested money in an institution has the right to determine and appoint directors and board of directors. In this case, it is not about the founder of the autonomous province, but about the Republic of Serbia. The Republic of Serbia is the founder of higher schools and belongs to it the right to designate directors and boards, and for those schools set up by the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina, it will have the same right as the founder. This is about taking over, rather, the kidnapping of certain higher education institutions by autonomists. The government here has given its opinion that this is about trusting jurisdiction. It's not about trusting jurisdiction in the case of the acquisition of property rights. That is why they suggested that points 4 and 5 be deleted in Article 14.) It is up to you to assess whether this is right or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16729	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 51, against 93, 30 abstentions, three of the 177 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 15th amendment were submitted by MP Branislav Blazic and MP Bora Stanimirovic. Representative, Government and Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Do the applicants want a word? There's a word from MP Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16730	Ladies and gentlemen, this member of the bill is, in fact, disclosing the rights of the motionor. There can't be any economic interest here when it comes to higher education. So what's the interest if there's no economic interest? Obviously, this is about breaking up a single higher education system in order to indoctrination and manipulation of young people in colleges. Young people are the easiest to manipulate, and that's what the Americans showed before October 5th. I'll tell you how it used to be in Vojvodina when the autonomists were in power. After completing the Medical School and the internship, we passed a professional exam, a so-called state exam. In order to get permission to take that professional exam in Belgrade, you had to go to the Executive Greater Vojvodina and ask them for it. I went there and they welcomed me like I was looking for something; that woman we were teaching that application to is about to fall off the chair, why in Belgrade to take a professional exam? She brought me back, and tomorrow I went back to Novi Sad to see a man who first taught me some classes to tell me why after college, I'm taking a professional exam in Novi Sad. Many of my colleagues have been through this, and I have finally received this confirmation that I can pass a professional exam in Belgrade, and many have not received it. Vrsac colleagues had to travel, walk past Belgrade to go to Novi Sad to ask that they could be in Belgrade. It was easier to get permission to go to Segedin to study there or even pass some professional exams than in Belgrade. It is the time of those stories that are still being told today about the good intentions of the autonomists, that it is not the goal of breaking Serbia, but of making it work easier. This is how we functioned, and these stories are still being heard today. And this law is supported by many stories, last year we listened to the stories themselves, there were many stories, Serbia turned into a story and it was never told again, and it worked less. So this is the function of some of the stories, and the backdrop of everything is the only breaking of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16731	Anybody else answer for a word? Does the applicant of the amendment, MP Bora Stanimirovic, want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16732	Ladies and gentlemen, this is about some autonomous rights, as Article 15 speaks of higher education, but if we look at the law that entered the assembly procedure, which is what autonomy we're talking about here. What are the autonomous rights that, practically national minorities in Vojvodina will have, besides, nowhere in the world? Under the Constitution, Article 8(2) of the University and the Faculty of Education can be performed both in the language of national minorities and in one of the world languages. You count the countries in the world that have universities, or universities where teaching is done in minority languages, and we have already provided for in the law on university, which in a month's time will be practically, and likely to be voted. Article 15 of this law on autonomous province, in its very name, is just saying something that is not clear to the end. First, a bill laying down certain competences of an autonomous province, but which one? He means Vojvodina, does Kosovo? We are talking about Serbia, in practice, and when someone criticises those who are against autonomy, and in fact they do not, in fact, stress their understanding that we are not giving enough rights to all the peoples, to all the citizens of the country. In that case, each one according to this proposal and according to this map, which we saw yesterday or yesterday, will have some autonomous rights in Serbia, where in four hours you can drive from north to south. So it's a big country, and everyone will be able to achieve that autonomy. Article 15 is controversial and we're asking to delete, and here's why? First, because the university law has entered the congregation procedure and some things are repeated. It provides for the establishment of universities and universities, determines the fulfilment of conditions for the start of the work of educated work, colleges, guides, or determines the number of students, appoints part of members of the managing body and performs, what is important, administrative supervision. Therefore, this is also foreseen by the university law, where not only Novi Sad, but every place that has a university will be able to address these issues, especially when it comes to registration policy, and especially when it comes to managing bodies. I just don't get it, and I'll probably be looking for an explanation for those who are later interpreting it, by which law, as far as the university is concerned, will work in Vojvodina? Is under this law on the university that is proposed and which is in the congregation procedure or according to this which is now proposed for autonomy. There will be dualism, and the history of the Serbian Vojvodina was at that stage of dualism, especially when it was ruled by the Austro-Hungarian monarchy, with the emperor in Vienna, with the king in Pesta. Do we now, creating these two laws, still want to rule with the emperor in Belgrade, with the King in Novi Sad, think of Chanka? Therefore, if so, it is certain that it is necessary to delete this and to resolve many other questions in order to get what we want. No one's against autonomy, it's not an imaginary category, but last time I said, I'm looking for a decentralisation here that will go further than the New Sad. It's just that the government is divided between two centers, and what remains of those other centers is the problem to be discussed. We, if we cannot change the Constitution of Serbia, can change a lot. We are changing many system laws without practically changing Serbia's Constitution. I guess the constitution comes first, then the law. Afterwards, when we change Serbia's constitution, will we change all these laws that we lost a year or lose another year more. That's why the SPS is proposing to delete this member, not because it's less autonomy. If someone criticises us that it's practically just one strategy of the Socialist Party, he's wrong; we can say vice versa. Why is someone putting pressure on her right now? We heard Mr. Chank on the first day he spoke and when he practically said you'd either adopt or we'd act like this. When he tells the Prime Minister - you will either pass that law or our 19 MPs will cancel obedience to the government, I think the government could find a better coalition partner and not fear for its status.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16733	The word is made by MP Vojislav Seselj, president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16734	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as we go deeper and further into the debate about the individual members of this radical legal project, there is an increasing amount of expression of the legal intricacies of the people who wrote this. For example, the creators of this Article 15 considered this legal norm to be the already existing universities and universities in Vojvodina owned by the Republic of Serbia, the founder of which is the Republic of Serbia, to hand over to the autonomous province as founder. But according to this article, it can't be done. According to this member of the law, future colleges and universities can form a province, those that do not yet exist. Second, don't forget, under the applicable University Act, and probably by some future, if it's passed, the state won't have a monopoly to form universities and universities. In addition to the state, private, legal or physical persons who meet certain conditions will be able to do so. This is what an autonomous province can do, it may be able to do both the municipalities and the city, but by increasing the number of possible university and university bodies, it doesn't mean anything here in principle. Under this law, you cannot even surrender an existing university and already existing universities in the jurisdiction of the province, nor can you declare the province their founder. Those who wrote this to you don't know anything, and I'm paying attention to that, so I wouldn't convince you to give up this law. And then, here, I'm making a special point of that remark, which I saw on Thursday, when it came to higher schools. How is it possible that there is a provision here giving the province jurisdiction to exercise administrative oversight? How is that possible in the current legal order? How is this possible in today's system of state administration? I ask that question to the minister of justice and local self-government, Vladan Batic, who represented the government at the last session, he comes out to answer me and says that I am a professor, or doctor of pre-war training. I ask him to explain the professional question, and he tells me I'm a doctor of pre-war training. After the session, I ask him why he hasn't answered the direct question, he says - I have to read it, so at the next session (it looks like he's still reading the textbooks and has not come up with adequate knowledge, which would allow him to appear after this assembly speaker). But I'm guessing there's some other lawyer in the O.R. amongst you DOSs, so let him come out and explain that question. How can a law like this be implemented? You have abolished the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16735	Please don't win, don't get distracted.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16736	No one throws it to me, and no one bothers me, so there's no need to protect me, I don't mind. You've abolished the Constitutional Court's mind - until there's no constitutional court, anything that literally comes to mind, you can turn into a legal norm. Yes, you can. You know, there were Roman emperors who also declared their horse senator. So these things in history aren't any new, these things have happened before in history, but how long they've lasted -- they've lasted a very short time, and they've been remembered for thousands of years. I think that during this short term of yours, you are doing things that will be remembered for a thousand years. Practices at law schools will be written based on this legislative practice of yours, based on this legislative activity, both generations and generations of students will learn that law must not be misused. Explain the issue of administrative oversight. Why isn't anyone able to do that? Here, let the head of the DOS parliamentary group explain this issue of administrative oversight, let some minister come over and explain, let's see who knows who of you can explain it, and how do you mean in practice to spend it?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16737	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? He has the word Mr Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the DOS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16738	Mrs. Micic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will not use this as an opportunity to give the predecessor an explanation, since he said so much negative that I think it would be a lost time. I will ask you only to read fully a member of the law currently under discussion and especially to read the final position in which it is said that it is actually entrusted with the creation of colleges and universities, to determine the fulfilment of the conditions for the start of work and to carry out the work of the university, to appoint members of the management body as representatives of founding members at universities and universities and to carry out administrative supervision. I think it's very clear that we're actually providing all of those quality answers to any problems that might arise from the application of this law because of non-compliance, which is too serious to be corrected by just one legal project. As far as everything else is concerned, I think that each of us is responsible for our political actions, so of course we, just like our predecessors, who at least have said enough about the adoption of the Law on the University that demoted the entire area of our social life, in such a way that we have not been able to correct our own anomalies that have arisen from it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16739	Thank you. The word is given by MP Stevan G. Guduric, authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16740	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on member 15 of the SPS, has given an amendment to delete the member. We received, practically together, another law in the materials that we received, which is the law on the university, so I wonder - since in the light of this law on Vojvodina (though it does not say here that it is about Vojvodina, but about some province), on page 30, "The law on determining certain competences of the autonomous province is determined by the blasphemy by those competences of the autonomous province which have been agreed on within the Working Group for the Co-ordination of Work of the Government of Serbia and the Executive Council of the AP Vojvodina, formed in May." If that's in line with the government, then why did we get a law from the government that treats it a little differently and shapes it? Because we've been listening to the story of some autonomy here, we've heard a lot of things that don't have much to do with some reality, and if we want to have... I don't know why they'd be in such a hurry. [[elevator in the O.R.]] I don't even know why this is a formulation, because there's already been more than one mention of administrative surveillance. Now the minister has arrived, perhaps he will explain how he can do it with these administrative oversights, even if we don't have to expect some too many miracles, because some of the other laws we're getting from that ministry weren't very clear to us, and some of them were of four members, with three amendments from the government, and we'll see, maybe there's a better result here in an explanation. Therefore, I think that the arguments tabled by two SPS and the SRS MPs are absolutely on the side that these amendments should be accepted and Article 15 deleted from the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16741	The word comes from MP Zeljo Huric, deputy president of the DOS parliamentary group, Vojvodina Reformists and the Sandzak Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16742	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic said the essential thing about this amendment is attached to this article. In fact, it's about the affairs of the Republic to a trusted autonomous province. I see this trust in business as the first step in breaking extreme centralism in the education system. This extreme centralism, the very word says, was particularly expressed in this sphere, which represents the foundation of every system. On the other hand, there have been claims that there is no case in some other countries that teaching at the university is performed in the language of minority nations. That's not true, you'll find several such universities in America. I know, say, for one, Mexican, where you teach in Mexican, so it just doesn't stand. And when it comes to autonomy, the very transfer of certain powers to the level of the autonomous province actually represents what needs to happen to me, which is that autonomy happens to the institutions, schools and universities themselves, or colleges. So that's just one step, one step on that road. Thank you. And of course, the amendment shouldn't be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16743	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 58, against 83, abstentioned 29, 17 of the 187 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 15th amendment, with a correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Deretic and Zoran Novakovic. Representative, Government and Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you are, MP Jovan Deretic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16744	The Honorable Presidency, dear colleagues, in Article 15. We have an even more flagrant case of taking over the prerogatives of the Republic of Serbia in favour of an autonomous province, which is point 4), where the autonomous province is entitled to appoint a member of the governing body as a representative of the founders at universities and university. Autonomous province is not the founder of college or university. Then what does he want to achieve here? Here it is simply to achieve at every point that as much jurisdiction as possible is taken from the Republic, because it is not about creating some autonomy but about creating a new independent state of Vojvodina. We here have such a way of doing things where we do not hesitate to trample on the Constitution and other positive laws in favour of the creation of that new state. Serbia's government is wrong when it says it is entrusted with jurisdiction. I'd like Mr. Justice to explain here what the difference between a trusted jurisdiction or giving in jurisdiction is. Is there any difference in the legal point of view here at the end, and we know that it's just a game of words and that it's something completely different from what is proposed here in this bill? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16745	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Here you go, Mr. Vojislav Seselj, president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16746	Professor Deretic's amendment, ladies and gentlemen, raises another question: the issue of college management that forms, possibly, an autonomous province. If an autonomous province is given jurisdiction to form universities and universities, assuming that this can be achieved from the constitutional aspect at all, then the Republic has no right to interfere with its governance. Then she cannot be told by this law by the Republic that only part of the board of directors or management furniture will set up the province. Then by the nature of things, the province would have to regulate its regulations. If these rules are in conflict with the Republic law, then the question of the conflict of that lower legal act with the Republic law is resolved before the Constitutional Court. And he can't do it this way. But you simply don't realize what chaos you produce in the legal order of this law. Just now, Cedomir Jovanovic said this is about confidential business. Well, it's precisely the biggest problem that comes from not having a single trusted job here. We had a debate about the name of the law. We asked for the name of the law to be changed and to be determined -- the law on the trust of certain matters to the autonomous province. If it were business trust, then the debate would be different. Many of these things could then be trusted. The state can entrust certain tasks from administrative supervision to lower forms of political institutions, such as - autonomous province, region, local self-government, city, municipalities, etc. The State may also trust the municipality to carry out certain administrative oversight tasks, but the jurisdiction of administrative oversight cannot belong to the province, it cannot be done to anyone other than the State. That's the point. So there's no trust here. Don't make a new mistake to enter now speaking of trust. The biggest problem of this law is that it does not entrust certain matters of the Republic's jurisdiction, but determines the jurisdiction of the province against the Constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16747	Thank you. The word came from Mr Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the DOS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16748	A brief right to the replica, since Mr. Seselj mentioned me in his previous presentation. And too much confusion for a former law professor, which speaks enough about the country we used to live in. Mr. Seselj, it's about trusted jobs, and among other things in the field of college and university. If that's not clear to you, I suggest you apply to law school in June of the month, end it again as a sudent and then remove the ambiguities that burden our work.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16749	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Please, the word is Mr Vladan Batic, Minister of Justice and Local Self-Government.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16750	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, once again I ask you to read the provision of Article 109(2) carefully. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. In addition to the Constitution, there is a law called the State Administration Act, which was first passed in 1992, has been amended several times, which provides for the ministries to exercise administrative supervision in Article 8(3). Article 11 lists the types of controls. This may be the supervision of the legality of acts, of the legality of work and so on. inspection control. It's something that's completely legitimate and that can be entrusted to an autonomous province. On the contrary, Article 16. The state administration law says the ministries cannot take over jobs from the authorities of the city's administration, the City of Belgrade, other cities and an autonomous province. It can't go the other way, but it can go this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16751	Thank you. You are not mentioned and there is no basis for the replica (receives to the Messenger Seselj. I put the amendments to the vote on the 15th People's MPs Jovan Deretic and Zoran Novakovic. For 57, v. 88, abstentioned 33, it did not vote 11 out of 189 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 16th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Petar Petrovic and MP Vladimir Garcevic. Representative, Government and Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There's a word from MP Petar Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16752	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have proposed on behalf of the Serbian Unity Party's Parliament Club to be a member of 16. The bill is deleted for the following reasons. In fact, the student and student standards are a very important area and an important category in social life to allow the autonomous province to regulate this area in a special way for students and students from its territory. To remind you of what this article is about, I'll only read a few points. Autonomous province has been given the right "to establish a network of student and student centres and other institutions of student and student standards". Then, it is given the right "to conduct a competition for admission to the homes of students and students; it sets out the conditions for regressing the transportation of students and students in inter-city traffic; it appoints and resolves members of the board of directors and supervisory board in the institutions of student and student standards". I've highlighted only a few points here, and I'm going to try to explain why the SSJ Parliament Club disagrees with the proposal for such solutions in this article, and that's why it's asking for an erasure. The question arises whether the student and student standards, student and student scholarships and loans will be specifically determined and their height arranged in the autonomous province compared to other parts of Serbia. If we are talking about a competition for admission to the home of students and students, and so far the competitions have been held in colleges where the headquarters of those universities is, and the conditions have been unique, as far as I know, for the entire territory of Serbia. Why would it be different now? On the other hand, when we talk about ways of regressing the transportation of students and students in cross-city traffic, how will the transportation of a student or student from a place that is 50km from Belgrade on the territory of an autonomous province be regressed, while studying in Belgrade and vice versa, if a student studies in Novi Sad and travels every day from Belgrade to Novi Sad? Who will determine the regression, and how will this student, or student, be helped? When it comes to administrative oversight and administrative oversight, I think that the sparrows of the branches could already learn, based on previous discussions, that this cannot be done and that it cannot be entrusted to an autonomous province because it is in direct contrast to the constitutional solutions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, as well as with laws that regulate various social areas of life and work in Serbia. For these reasons, and many others who have heard each other, and not to repeat them, the Serbian Unity Party is among other things and has proposed to delete this member and please accept that this article is deleted from the bill that is before us.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16753	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? The word is made by MP Vladimir Garčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16754	With this law, we normally continue the division of the Republic of Serbia, and the explanation given by the Serbian Government, namely the applicant for this law, is such that there is no normal foothold to explain. The number of homes in Vojvodina territory, when it comes to student and student standards, is too small, so that this could not be regulated at the level of the Republic of Serbia. On the other hand, they're not gonna let the province or the state call a home competition. The competition is common for the territory of the Republic, the rules are the same, and we know what's going on in the contest for home. I hope the province doesn't decide who gets home, because we know how to conduct it and how to conduct it. We say we want a single social policy at the level of the Republic. Are we doing this by law? No, I don't. We're still dividing. Gentlemen, then return the jurisdiction of the students' homes to the municipal administration, and then let her take care of it, for it is said here that it will be better to function in the state if the students' homes return. If there are 20 homes in the province's territory, I guess the state doesn't work badly because of it. The state either works or doesn't work. Therefore, if the functioning of the state is based on 20 student homes, then there is nothing from that state. You run the government, dear comrades, and why haven't you organized it properly in the past year and a half? Why didn't you advance management? It's said that administrative surveillance is being carried out. How long are we gonna talk about this? If the state has to have administrative oversight. The preamble doesn't say trusted. Read and write well - Proposal for a law establishing certain competences. If determining jurisdiction is to stand here and you didn't write, trusted business. Then that would be completely different. But in the first place you put it as a legal act, and on the second -- you know, we played, we entrusted you with some jobs, and it's not that, it is that. On the other hand, I don't see any funding around here. Does this mean that the province will receive original income to fund all homes? You can't see from this part of the law. It doesn't say here that certain funds will be transferred or what will be done. I don't see you promoting homes with this. I must say, the Republic has taken care of the student standard as much as it has had opportunities. Therefore, it worked, invested, and adapted. The Republic worked on the territory of Vojvodina, and now it's about Srem, investing as much as it had the funds. So about 2,100,000 marks were invested in Mitrovica municipality in building a school that today is the pride of Mitrovica. It has been invested in adapting the student home, which has increased its capacities from 80 to about 150 to 200 students, thanks to the tenacity of the directors and the state of Serbia. It was designed to improve educational institutions in Ruma, Indjia and Beško. Therefore, my dear autonomists, there is no economic logic to what you want and what you tell the people of Serbia. Looks like the current government can't function without them. It would be good for you to find someone who wants to preserve Serbia, so that you have a good reign or not to rule or go to the election in the province. Give the election in the province, so when we're done with the election, we'll see what anyone gets and whose place it is. I claim to you, citizens, whom I am meeting and now I welcome them to Srem, are for the preservation of Serbia; there are enough Serbian living minorities and national minorities who want Serbia to remain unique and we will win that.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16755	I remind the People's MPs that, according to Article 138. Rules of Procedure, the debate on amendments shall take a maximum of five minutes, and I warn you that I will have to respect it and that we will distinguish the situation when MPs from several parliamentary groups and when they submit together in the same text. According to Article 142, it means in the same text, and if amendments are submitted by MPs from different parliamentary groups, it has every right to receive a word. The second is when they submit the amendment together. The word has been given by MP Vojislav Seselj, president of the SRS parliamentary group, and then by MP Stevan G. Guduric.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16756	In the inability to answer me the key issue of managing administrative supervision as jurisdiction, Vladan Batic says I am a doctor of pre-war training, Cedomir Jovanovic says I am a former professor of Law and let's still say I am a Croat, so insult me to the end, but with that insult you can't kill my argument. For you, it's too hard to argue. Vladan Batic is calling for Article 109. The constitution, which says: "The Republic of Serbia can legally entrust the Autonomous province with the performance of certain matters under its rights and duties and transfer funds to it for these matters." That's what we keep saying. The Republic can trust, and this is not a law of trust, but of determining jurisdiction. Article 71(2) says: "Other authorities and organisations in the Republic of Serbia can be entrusted with the enforcement of laws and other regulations and general acts in the framework of the rights and duties of the Republic of Serbia, by being responsible for their enforcement." You can trust some Department of Education of Vojvodina and more schools and colleges, but you bear the responsibility for everything they do in that sphere. So, administrative surveillance must remain strictly in your hands, you must constantly check how they do it for you. You trusted them with this, you entrusted some of the province's authorities with managing universities and universities in Vojvodina. You trusted him to do it for you and for you. You have to keep them under constant control and you're responsible for everything they do. You are, by this law, trying to transfer to them what is your responsibility, what is your jurisdiction to pass on to them as their jurisdiction, to determine their jurisdiction. That's what you do. That's the point. Cedomir Jovanovic is not a lawyer, and it is understandable to me that it cannot be included in the expert debate. Vladan Batic is a lawyer, a longtime lawyer. There's another problem with him; he's a long-time lawyer and he's as a lawyer had to defend everything he takes as a case.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16757	Please return to the agenda, Mr. Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16758	This is a very important legal argument, don't interrupt me. So he was obliged to defend every client, to agree with his actions or not to agree. Now Vladan Batic is the minister, now he is no longer in the role of lawyers, that he must represent what he disagrees with and where he thinks the argument, the act is not good, etc. You here must, first of all, pay tribute to your legal profession at all times and show that you understand each other in law. And don't go out as a lawyer, no matter what's on the agenda here, there's a legal flaw, there's no...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16759	I warn you that you have been given the word to discuss the amendment to Article 16.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16760	That's exactly what I'm talking about. You do not see that there is, in Article 16, an exercise of administrative oversight at point 14. Read it a little bit, take a deep breath, and you're some kind of lawyer, as far as I've heard. Is that true? Get a little deep in it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16761	Mr. Seselj, please return to the topic, I'm warning you one last time.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16762	I'm in charge of an expert legal debate here, and legal arguments challenge a member by law. The strongest argument in challenging the law is the issue of this point of administrative oversight. That's also in Articles 14, 15 and 16. Therefore, through these three members, there is a continuing debate on administrative oversight. You can't answer that, and you're not even thinking about what's going on here. It is also a key matter in Article 16 that administrative oversight is carried out. Secondly, the same argument is repeated here. If the province will be able to form institutions of student and student standards, an immediate question is raised, and what about the already existing ones in the hands of the Republic of Serbia. Where is this legal act that will already be passed on to the province. That legal act does not exist. It's amazing what you're doing with this law, how you're plowing through the legal order. You forget and you don't care... (President: Time. What turns out and what shows up there. That's the point. Come on, once, explain this issue of administrative oversight. Batic comes out, so he's using my arguments quite inadequately. Let him explain here: The Constitution says trust, and you say determination, in law. Explain the difference between trust and determination, come on, if you don't know how to explain the issue of administrative oversight.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16763	Anybody else answer for a word? Here you are, MP Stevan G. Guduric, authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16764	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the debate on Article 16, where the same word is spoken as in paragraph 14, is about administrative oversight. All that Mr. Minister has told us may believe that this same member of the law does not have an amendment to the Government, which reads: Article 16 paragraph 1 point 13 is deleted. Point 13 of the article is proposed to be deleted as it is necessary to perform those tasks in a uniform manner. How is it that one member needs to be performed uniquely and the other one does not need to be. And then the minister says that there in the Constitution, I'm not a lawyer, so I don't want to play with the terms, it says that you can't do it in Vojvodina: in one member you can't, and in one you can't. Someone will have to clarify that, because we have an amendment to the government on the same member, which says surveillance is not allowed in Vojvodina in this case. These other aspects have been properly and well explained, and I don't think words should be spent. Let me just put it this way, if someone in Vojvodina has two children, then one is studying in Belgrade, and one is studying in Novi Sad, under which conditions it will be as far as the student standard is concerned. Whether they live in two countries or they will be uniquely regulated.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16765	Anybody else answer for a word? Here you go. Minister of Justice and Local Self-Government, Mr Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16766	It's obvious he's forgetting who's proposing this bill. The proposer is the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina. Here I represent the Government in that section concerning the Government and regarding the amendments submitted by the Government to the bill. Of course, the government has also given its opinion on all amendments submitted by the MPs. That's one thing. The second thing, I explained, and I really don't have time to practice some kind of legal training now against people who are layers and have no reason to be professionals or experts, because it's not the essence of parliamentary democracy in this form, so I quoted the provisions of the Law on State Administration that govern the issue of administrative oversight. Literally correct, with a sign of members who regulate this matter. Anyone with time can read the State Administration Act. It's exactly the protection of profession and, of course, that's what can interest both the MPs and the general public.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16767	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Nobody. I put the amendments tabled by MPs Petar Petrovic and Vladimir Garcevic on Article 16. For 54, against 99, abstentioned 38, did not vote seven, a total of 198 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 16 of the amendment. The proposer's representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 90, against 66, with 35 abstentions, six, a total of 197 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I'm setting a break for certain consultations to take place. [[Zagor in the O.R.]] A 30-minute break, so work continues at 12.30 hours. [[After break - 13,15.]] Rules of Procedure, I'm setting a break by 15.00 hours. [[After break - 15.40.]] We're continuing our work. In order to determine the quorum, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the MPs. I figure we've got a quorum and we can keep working. I would like to inform you that during the break, we have had consultations and, on the basis of Article 84(2), I would like to call on the proposing representative, Vice-President of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina, Dr Predrag Filipov, to give us the necessary information.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16769	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, after consulting the parliamentary groups, after political consultations have been held with the motion, as the authorised representative of the Vojvodina Assembly, I accept the amendments: 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13. 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 27, 28, 29 and 30 proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia at a session held on 17 January 2002 on the draft law establishing certain competences of the autonomous province. I am also informing you, and you certainly know that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has withdrawn Amendment 26 to Article 66. Proposal for a law laying down certain competences of the Autonomous Province at its session held on 24 January 2002.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16770	I thank Mr. Filipov. On the occasion of the Rules of Procedure, I give my word to Mr Borislav Pelevic, deputy president of the Serbian Unity Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16771	Dear citizens of Serbia, the Honorable Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, representatives of NGOs, I appeal to Article 95. Rules on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, item 2, which reads: "The President of the Assembly may set a break in the work of the National Assembly to carry out the necessary consultations or obtain an opinion. "My question for the Honorable Madam Chairman is: which parliamentary groups have been consulted, given that this position of Article 2 95 is imprecise? Does the chairman-in-Office think this is the DoS National Assembly or the Serbian Government Assembly? Allow me to note that this is an assembly of the people of Serbia, not individual parliamentary groups. The formal - legal DOS does not even have a majority in parliament, as there are currently 103 MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. So, I ask: on what basis did Mrs. Chairman, immediately after the distrust of the Serbian government's amendment was voted, schedule a break that lasted more than three hours? Should the other parliamentary groups have been consulted, or is there only DOS? Is this just a DOS assembly, whether it's only the Serbian government's assembly or whether it's the Serbian people's assembly. My second question for Madam Chairman is this: why did we start work today at 11.00 hours? According to the Rules of Procedure, Article 81, the National Assembly begins at 10.00 hours. I know that Madam Chairman will say that she checked with the Assembly if there weren't enough MPs to start working at a certain time. But I remind you that it is the duty of the lady to be in her place exactly at 10.00 p.m., to press the bells to invite all MPs; in doing so, she removes responsibility and transfers responsibility to the MPs who are, and thus, irresponsible. With what right is the Madam Chairman today, when she twice postponed the Assembly meeting at the time of the break, she came to the hall at 3:25 p.m. and scheduled a session at 15.00 p.m. I ask you, do the citizens of Serbia who work in businesses and factories have the ease to come to work with an hour late and what sanctions do they suffer for? They suffer unseen sanctions, and often quit. I know this is all a farce and that the motionary has agreed to accept the amendments of the Serbian Government, but I am asking if what was voted in the Assembly can be withdrawn by accepting the motionors? Of course he can't. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16772	Mr Pelevic, in Article 95(2) you called upon, writes: "The President of the National Assembly may set a break in the work of the National Assembly session to carry out the necessary consultations or obtain an opinion". I informed you on the basis of this article, and everyone interested could attend the meeting. So the rights belong to people, I'm sorry you didn't have any interest. Irregularity in the O.R. ) The second question, the delay of this session, among other things, was that the committee sessions were held and we waited for them to finish the work.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16773	Put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16774	I am putting on the vote by MP Borislav Pelevic. For 76, against 101, two abstentions, were not voted 16 out of 195 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has made a decision that there has been no breach of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which was pointed out by MP Borislav Pelevic. Another report on the application of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Stevan G. Guduric wants a word, an authorised representative of the SPS group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16775	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the President of the Assembly has, as usual, violated Article 28. The Rules of Procedure, where it is said that, among other things, the Rules of Procedure are taken care of and applied, etc. On Wednesday, when I spoke, you said it wasn't true that you weren't on time, so you said you were at 10:15. As far as I know, not a single session has been scheduled for 10.15. Today you gave a break without God's will, for only your known reasons; now with some story that everyone could come to the consultation, as if it were some optional party. You from the pay phone didn't say that you were calling for the consults of the head of the parliamentary groups, but only faster -- you'd better give a break, in a wonder what to do now. You said it was a 12:30 break. After that, at 13,15 you say you're taking a break until 15.00 hours. It's basic order, when you give a break, that you show up, if you need to take a break, go ahead, but you need to stick to the basic order.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16776	National MP Stevan G. Guduric, in fact, pointed out the same remarks as previous MP Borislav Pelevic. Do you want to put it to a vote? Yeah. ) I put it on the vote by Stevan G. Guduric. For 67, against 99, abstentions 8, 26, 200 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has made a decision that no injured Rules of Procedure in Article 28, which was advertised by MP Stevan G. Guduric. I suggest we continue our work. On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Lazar Marjanski. Representative, Government and Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16777	Too bad the government didn't accept this amendment, otherwise what's going on in this assembly wouldn't have happened. Namely, I suggested in Article 16 that Article 2 be deleted, which says: "The jobs of Items 1 to 1 through 6 and 9 to 13 are done as trusted". The amendment is proposed because it is business that cannot be entrusted to an autonomous province because of its importance because it violates the Constitution, Articles 71 and 73. I'm sure this member is very important. We, Serbian radicals, know how important it is and for this speaker, the SRS has repeatedly warned of this member and member of the 15th and Article 14. Namely, I'm an authentic Duke, one of the oldest is my family in Vojvodina, and there's no one who has come yesterday to wear a scarf and say he wants this, that he wants this. There must be one thing: Vojvodina is my country, and for Vojvodina everyone is praying and fighting; we all wanted and we managed to join the queen of Serbia, to join Serbia. It's certain that's what all the Dukes want. Secondly, even here those who are the Dukes or the national minority know well that the national minority is highly appreciated, that it has all the rights and more than it has in other countries. What you promised them, what you asked for, is now happening in the congregation. Small parties, such as the traitor party, Velje Ilica, sold for a pack of cigarettes or for a cigarette factory. Now it's happening here, tomorrow you'll rule out one party of four MPs just for that. If this didn't happen, the SRS would warn you to accept this amendment so that everything would be all right.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16778	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? Please, MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16779	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, on behalf of Article 16. The draft law of the Assembly is in an absurd situation, in which you bring it very often, not only the president of the Assembly in the manner in which the Assembly leads, but also the parliamentary majority, which was the only measure of consent found when it chose the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You've been acting like horns in a bag ever since. We rejected the government's amendment to the same member, which caused confusion in the ruling majority, and then consulted the draft law and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I think it is also possible, that it is allowed, that it is desirable, but I can't understand why the president of the National Assembly humiliated the National Assembly and introduced it into lawlessness, into anarchy, she introduced us now to one of the legislators of the law and to trample and swallow himself behind this speaker. The only position of the legislator to be addressed to the National Assembly is the one written the other day, which was signed by the same person who was here at the pay phone and who said which amendments he accepted, which he did not accept. Literally, the promoter told us that he did not accept 13 amendments to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, written, and you have the seal of the Autonomous Region. Now let me warn you of members 144 and 145. Rules of Procedure. Article 144 says: "The legislator, the committees responsible and the Government are obliged to consider, before the meeting of the National Assembly, amendments submitted under the bill and to inform the National Assembly of which amendments are proposed to be accepted by the National Assembly and for which they are rejected. "This job was done by the promoter and more legislator has no authority to accept or reject any amendment during the procedure. There is another authority from Article 145 which reads: "In the course of the legislative review, amendments in writing can be submitted by the legislator, the competent committees, or the Government, but only if the need for an amendment has arisen as a result of the previous acceptance of another amendment". If the legislator accepts that Serbia and Vojvodina are playing a game of pressure, blackmail, compromise, kidnapping - giving, taking, he can accept this game, but only in a Businessman established way. Let those in the Vojvodina Assembly do whatever they want, if approved by the Vojvodina Assembly's Rules of Procedure, Serbia does not have the right to interfere with them. But here, in this National Assembly, we will work exclusively on this Rules of Procedure. The legislator who has not accepted the amendments and informed us of this in writing at the time of the proceedings can no longer change his position on the amendments. Do you know how ugly and pointless it is to ask the question of what is even the wish of the legislator? If he had some concept of the law and if the government put him at risk with its amendments, if he said he could not agree with the government's position to destroy his law with its amendments, how come one day of debate, in which nothing was proven, has affected the proponent so much to accept all amendments to the Serbian government. What will we get even when this law is passed in general? Will it settle relations between the alienated leadership of Vojvodina and the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, the Government, the citizens of Serbia, choose whoever you want in this debate. Nothing will change, blackmail and pressure continue. The law won't look like anything right now. And here you're calming those who have been to let the amendments pass and those that have been for the amendments not to pass, and you're all looking for the unbroken to come out of this debate about giving essential autonomy, pointless autonomy, Vojvodina, and you're all pretending like nothing's happening here. The law is called, I'm finishing, the law on determining the jurisdiction of an autonomous province, and you assure us that all these jobs are entrusted. Change the laws that trust jobs, so write in the law on the university - the jobs of the member and that will be entrusted to the autonomous province and we have finished the job; and not the jobs will be carried out by an autonomous province as trusted, and the bill is called the law on determining jurisdiction. Don't make us, we Serbian radicals very seriously approach the discussions on the laws that you have here. Unfortunately, you're not putting any of our proposals on the agenda and we're forced to discuss it on your agenda, but respect it at least you. (President: I warn you on the subject and on time. ) Here I am ending, of you 177, who knows exactly what the Serbian Government's wish is to look like, and what is the wish of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina's proposal to make the law look like? Today in the last vote, where the government's amendment fell, one of the same DOS parliamentary groups voted differently, and these little ones who decide your country's fate.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16780	Mr. Nikolic, you have two warnings, the next step is taking words. Is anyone else applying for a word from the authorized participants in the debate? The word has a minister of justice and local self-government, Mr Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16781	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, in just a few words, once again, the geneses of this whole project. At the preparation of the Nacra Act on determining the jurisdiction of the Autonomous province, the Executive Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina and the Resolute Ministry of the Government of the Republic of Serbia worked. The set of these responsibilities, to be identified as the responsibilities of the AP Vojvodina, are agreed at that level. The legal and technical redistribution and the bill was made by the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina. When the government saw the proposal, for the sake of constitutional and legislative harmonisation and for the sake of legal and technical redistribution, it proposed certain amendments. Therefore, there were no misunderstandings regarding the spectrum of jurisdiction. It's a consensus. With regard to legal and technical regulation, there have been some shortcomings, which the government has tried to amend its amendments. Perhaps colleagues from one part of the DOS parliamentary club, or some other parties that are gravitating towards DOS, interpreted it differently. There's something else I have to say, because there's been a lot of controversy about the original and trusted jurisdiction. This law is called the Law establishing certain competences, and that does not mean that they cannot be both original and trusted. I don't know where you found that logic to rule out each other. The powers are determined, both original and trusted. You know, legal standards can be interpreted in multiple ways. There's a so-called. The notional or etemological interpretation of the legal norm, there's a Semantic, there's a logical, there's a grammar, there's a language. Therefore, only the language interpretation of the legal norm is sufficient to ensure that the determination is not a negative or original or trusted business.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16782	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 56, against 95, with 35 abstentions, the vote was not 11 out of 197 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposed amendment. The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Djura Lazic. Representative, Government and Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There's a word from MP Djura Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16783	The Honorable Presidency, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, distinguished guests, brothers and sisters from Kosovo and Metohija, the amendment that I submitted to Article 17 on behalf of the SPS, the SPS parliamentary club, is being added to the members of the law from 12th to 16th and by the SPS parliamentary club, which is proposed to delete these members, so it is logical to delete this member for causal and consequential reasons, because only the Republic of Serbia can provide funding for the education system with its budget. The proposed solutions from Articles 12 to 16 give so much authority to the AP to break up the unity of the educational system of the Republic of Serbia. This is also confirmed by the facts set out in the proposal for a law laying down certain competences of the Autonomous Province. Let's say, according to this proposal, it gives jurisdiction to the autonomous province to exercise administrative supervision, to conduct human resources policy, to establish a network, programmes, give consent to the instruments of systematization, etc. I think that these powers are really breaking the unique education system in the Republic of Serbia and this can cause more consequences. First of all, when it comes to the formation of education programmes, there may be a hyperproduction of personnel due to the lack of coordination of programmes in certain areas, and, on the other hand, deficitary personnel in other areas. If this Article 17 is adopted without amendments, I wonder -- what status will Serbian education have in Kosovo and Metohija, and does not Serbia disown that education, then health care; and is it not at the mercy of the Shiparian authorities who will finance it, and most importantly, whose programmes will work in education in Kosovo and Metohija? Because we saw in the title of the law -- not only does this law apply to the AP Vojvodina, but it says it applies to an autonomous province at all. So if we apply this law in both Kosovo and Metohija, I ask - what will happen to the Serbian education system in Kosovo and Metohija? In addition, in the previous period, the biggest problem in the southern province was related to the education programme. Many quasi-scientists have misread history by pushing separatism through the programme and imposed it on students and students in the area, which is why such consequences have arisen. This law is, in my opinion, a hoax and fraud, because it is the first step towards the status of the Republic of Vojvodina. In addition, the legislators do not hide this objective, they have confirmed it for this speaker, and as far as I know, they are also preparing a new constitution for the Republic of Vojvodina, which is about to use the basis of this bill for what they are planning. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia has also been attacked since 1990, which allegedly abolished the province's status. That is simply not true, because the Constitution of 1990 abolished the statehood of the provinces, which they had thanks to the Brozovsko-Khardeljevski Constitution since 1974. Since 1974, such provisions of this constitution have been known to have caused us both pain and suffering in one province and another. The federal state and the Republic of Serbia's policies towards Vojvodina on the economic and social agenda are also condemned as discriminatory, exploitative and looting, under the cloak that they want our money. This claim and the accusation in some way reminds me of the famous thesis of the Cypriot separatists in the early years of the awakening of that separatism, when they opposed that "Trepca works, Belgrade is being built" that they should leave the funds down there and so on. So it happened that today the Trepca doesn't work, today there's no electricity down there, after a few days, the citizens don't have electricity, and I'm afraid that's the fate, if it goes further towards separatism, it doesn't get to our northern province. Instead of correcting political and economic mechanisms, which would improve the situation of the province, without damaging and weakening the already unstable state, it is required to increase its degree of distance from the state, leading to complete destabilisation and destruction of the state. That is why all the essential elements of special statehood are sought for the province - full legislative, executive and judicial authority, all education and culture in all areas, as much closure as possible towards Serbia and opening to neighbours, both in economic and other fields. I would support this with point 7) from the field of sport, even the circle closes towards Serbia, and it gives the authorities to the autonomous province that international sports tournaments are also being negotiated in the field of sport and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16784	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 57, v. 89, abstention 28, no vote was made by 20, of 194 ambassadors. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. Representative, Government and Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you are, MP Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16785	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is these events related to this law, which have been happening these days about voting in principle, and also today, that have shown the true essence and character of this DOS government. Today, citizens of Serbia were finally able to understand what kind of authority it was. DOS is actually a rather heterogeneous trade association, which does not run over any trade, with anyone, just to stay in power. That the state is legal, which they stood up for in the election campaign, that "pannonian Arafat" with that colorful scarf that is... (President: Mr Jovanovic, I warn you to return to the topic. )......................................................................................................... The other day, you explained the law, you were supposed to be wearing that strip suit for everything you did on TV New Sad a few months ago. Unfortunately, the state is not legal and this "pannonian Arafat" can hold a letter in this state in the National Assembly and even threaten the National Assembly and prime minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. As regards the amendment itself to Article 17, the Serbian Radical Party submitted an amendment relating to Article 1(1). The first position, according to this proposal, reads: "Autonomic province provides funds for the work and implementation of the programme of the institutions referred to in Articles 12 to 16 of this Law". This view of the bill covers secondary and higher schools, universities, as well as institutions of student and student standards. The Serbian Radical Party's amendment to this position 1 speaks of the need to delete the words "members 12th to 16th." It would now read: "Autonomic province provides resources for the work and implementation of the programme of institutions under Article 16 of the Law". In other words, this means that an autonomous province can only provide funds for the work of institutions of student and student standards, since all other institutions are, are thought of high schools, means universities and universities, higher and higher schools, in the jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia, which is the founder of these institutions and finance them. I invite you to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16786	Anybody else answer for a word? Here's a word from MP Vojislav Seselj, president of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16787	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, unfortunately, the grotesque in which the National Assembly was introduced by the opening of the debate over this legislative project is becoming bigger and bigger. This is also evident in this article 17. The law, which states that an autonomous province provides the means to work and implement the programmes set out in Articles 12 to 16 of this Law. Autonomous province - providing funds. It does not stand - that an autonomous province receives funds from tax, taxi, etc., so the original incomes of the Republic, but - the autonomous province itself provides funds. How can an autonomous province provide these resources? By prescribing their own taxes, taxis, contributions and self-dependence, after all. Who knows what they can think of. We know from earlier history that whoever was calling for self-delivery was winning because he was counting ballots when the citizens came forward. How will an autonomous province provide funds? Why didn't you answer that question? In order to answer that question, tax legislation should be reformed first. Tax legislation had to be reformed before this law. He can't wear a coat and a shirt first. You should put on a shirt and a coat first, so at least it's with normal people. The way you adopt this law reminds you of a man who first wears a winter coat and then a shirt over his coat. That's what I'm saying to make it more clear to you what this is all about.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16788	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Nobody. I put the amendments to the vote. For 60 against 91, with 26 abstentions, the vote was not 16 out of 193 ambassadors. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 17 of the amendment. The proposer's representative accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Members of the 18th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Branko Ruzic and Milos Lukic. Representative, Government and Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you are, MP Milos Lukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16789	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, distinguished guests, I have submitted an amendment to Article 18. The draft law, and this amendment refers to the official use of language and letter. I will remind you only of the words of the prime minister we heard in the defense of this law before this assembly, when he said he needed to be careful and move gradually. If there's something sensitive and there's something to be careful about, it's this matter. The official use of language and letter has already been governed by positive regulations in the Republic of Serbia, and the reasons for the refusal of this amendment shows that this is also regulated by the Statute of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina. So there are a few questions. First, is anyone unhappy with these regulations? Is something not well arranged, so now it needs to be done again in a more valid way. If it was badly arranged, did someone try to point out that it was not well arranged and try to correct these irregularities. Then, if someone who is unsatisfactory and indicated that something is wrong, did they receive a negative response from one of the authorities of this country, or did any gesture show a negative relationship to this matter and whether or not someone wanted to endanger these rights? Also, according to the government, it is perfectly okay to transfer these powers to an autonomous province, because there are a large number of national minorities there, but there is no denying that there are other parts of Serbia, so the question is again being asked - what will happen to those people, in other territories, because this matter will be arranged differently. Speaking of sensitivity, I ask you -- what will happen in those municipalities where Serbs are minority in Vojvodina and who will then ask the same questions that we now have here and who will guarantee the Serbs these rights. All we can remember is that in Kninska Krajina, it started with a "balvan revolution" because of Cyrillic and Latin inscriptions of the names of cities and villages. So, again, I would like to point out that this matter is arranged by both the Republic Constitution and the province statute, as well as many other regulations, that nothing is disputed and that so far no one has expressed dissatisfaction with the way this matter is arranged, so I see no reason to remain in force, Article 18. We also have in paragraph 2 to monitor the application of laws and other regulations in this area, which is practically a violation of sovereignty and a violation of jurisdiction already laid down in the Constitution of Serbia, and once you give them up, you can hardly put them back again, so I repeat the proposal to delete Article 18.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16790	Is anyone else answering for this amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16791	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, and in Article 18, we are essentially in that part of the matter that is most controversial when it comes to the bill. Article 18(2) provides that the province is to supervise the application of laws and regulations. What no proposing representatives, nor the Government of the Republic of Serbia wanted for the previous three days, and today to answer, is the question - who gives this assembly the right to monitor and control the application of republican rules to hand over a part of the territory and take it away from the Republic as a state. Legislative projects may be passed on to part of the competences in resolving the rights and obligations and competences for certain areas, but so far no one has ever transferred the right of supervision and control over the application of the Republic law; there is the problem that occurred before and in the previous three days. If you trust one part of the area, in the framework of a legal solution for the Republic of Serbia, you transfer the rights to the New Sad leadership, because that is the case, and at the same time you give them the right to oversee and control themselves, where is the Republic of Serbia, where are the citizens of the rest of Serbia, if, after this law, Vojvodina is still part of Serbia? The law on the official use of the language and letters of the Republic of Serbia has made this area very precise at the level of the entire Republic. Repeating the question that I have said during the previous days of the assembly session: someone from Vojvodina, among you at least 30 to 35 MPs, comes out and says whether this republican law has been violated anywhere in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and has anyone noticed any problem in the application of the Law on the Use of Language and Letters of the Republic of Serbia? It's not. So, the Republic was 100%, 1,000% functional in that area. Why now and to whom it should be "do our money" suddenly shifts the right to adopt rules on the use of language and letters, when there is already a law at the level of the Republic of Serbia, which has been in use for so many years and has never had a problem in application. Not only is this allegedly transmitted, but the right to control the application of these laws is given to one who is entitled to act under that law. So, the cadiya sues you, the cadiya judges you, and that story is the simplest thing for our people. However, the AP Vojvodina Assembly is obliged to arrange the official use of language and letters with its statutes. She's bound to, and there's nothing we can do to pass it on to them. The statute must do so, but there is no authority to make a special decision, nor to regulate the official use of language and letter over any other act, exclusively for the territory of Vojvodina. It's gone, and it doesn't say anything that it can do, and neither can this congregation until it changes the republican regulations from that jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16792	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 59, against 87, with 26 abstentions, 17 of the 189 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 18 of the amendment. The proposing representative accepted this amendment, the Legislative Committee believes that the amendment is legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MP Bozidar Vucurovic submitted to the 18th amendment. Representative, Government and Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. The amendmentr wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16793	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 18. A proposal for this law, which I asked to delete the words "national minorities" in attitude 1. Because in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 8(2), the term national minority does not exist, but there is a term of nationality. The Law on Official Use of Language and Letters also states "language, or languages of nationality" and I have proposed that on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, attitude 2, this famous view of supervision, be deleted. Here's what you did to article 18. What has so far been in the jurisdiction of municipalities, as the Law on the Use of Language and Letters states in Article 11, "The language, or languages of the peoples who are in official use in the municipality are determined by the statute of the municipality". You have now transferred that from the municipality to the jurisdiction of autonomy. So that's how you decentralize what you call it. decentralisation is not done in this way, but it is done in such a way that what is in the jurisdiction of the province is brought down to the level of the municipalities. The languages of nationality which are officially used in the work of the autonomous province body, but only the authorities of the autonomous province, shall be determined by its statute. So we've reached the core of the problem. The problem is to remove the register from Belgrade and transfer it to Novi Sad. The problem is money. It's been two days since this famous surveillance thing. The supervision is now transferred as a right to the authorities of the Autonomous Province in all members, except in Article 16, where it is the original right. That's how this congregation decided, I guess that's why the law is so good, because a member of the 16 is out of all the other members. We said, therefore, that monitoring is a stumbling block in discussions in this congregation for several days, even if certain powers are entrusted to someone. The surveillance can't be trusted, and it's just like when you trust a gardener to cut your grass, and then you give him the right to determine whether or not he cut the grass properly. I guess the one who transfers jurisdiction has the right to control, but surveillance is the part that brings the money, and the money needs to be in the New Sad. So that I don't owe you my comment in verses, surveillance and things like that, now I'm going to tell you why this surveillance is so important. Because the Constitution is flimsy, and control is thin, it needs to be recharged, surveillance is necessary at this hour, it needs to be recharged; not everything here in money, it needs to be given a chance and a hunter. The constitution is not good and is very wrong, for money should be handed over to Nasha; if the money remains in the crowd, then it should be handed over to Cassi; the rest should be given to Dragan Veselin; and the foundation of the new, that Isaac should receive the money. On the basis of everything, we are not sheep, representing who gets the money; it is normal to hide it, under some democracy; from democracy it will be, in fact, full of buds; and the people will remain thin again, when the money is shared by Djindjic and Canak.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16794	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Yeah. Please, MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16795	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Ms. Natasa Micic is, if memory does not deceive me, the first lawyer, the president of the National Assembly, and we never should have had to have the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in hand or on the parliamentary bench when we are preparing to discuss the draft laws or procedures implemented in the National Assembly. Unfortunately, it's true. For example, you, Mrs. Micic...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16796	Mr. Nikolic, I gave you my word to discuss the amendment to Rule 18, not the Rules of Procedure. You have two warnings, and the third step is taking words, I warn you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16797	Why are you threatening me? You let go of that fuse just five millimeters longer, so you can hear what I'm going to say. Then solve it, it's in your hands and the knife and the cake. You can do it, however you want. You read to us here first the amendment of the government, then the amendment of the SRS parliamentary group, and now you're free to throw me out. The government's amendment arrived at 12pm on January 18th in the Assembly, and the amendment of the SRS parliamentary group at 11.30pm. Now I should take your word. If you cared a little about your authority, you'd be a little more quiet, because that would be a sign that you run the National Assembly well. You don't have me here, no communist dictator has ever warned me, let alone taken my word... [[elevator in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16798	Mr. Nikolic, please return to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16799	They loved me less than you do now. They had a lot of reasons, and so did you. Here's the thing. It is essential to discuss this bill further. We've been making amendments to the bill, to those members that were so shaped. Chuck, all the amendments to one member of the law have been rejected and we focus on that member of the law. Today, we are discussing this article, and five minutes ago, the promoter changed it, accepting amendments to the Government of the Republic of Serbia and they became an integral part of the bill, without being able to intervene now in the bill's proposal. Has the official notice been that these amendments... I don't know who the fuck this guy is. Do you know who this man is?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16800	I know, Mr. Nikolic, I'm asking you to get back on the agenda and don't mess with me.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16801	Why didn't you let us know there was someone in the O.R. you didn't invite? Do you know his name?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16802	I don't need to know exactly what his name is.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16803	How can you not know who is sitting in the congregation and what is his place? I understand at the gallery, you said the representatives of NGOs that are funded from the budget are sitting. Some do, some don't. Who this man is, you don't know either. Now you're gonna take my word for it. I give you the basic problem of passing this law. The main problem is that three minutes ago, the promoter here accepted what he didn't think to accept. The main problem is that the government's representative here holds vacuums and speeches, and representatives of his political party voted against the government's amendment. You convince me, everything is normal in this congregation, all I need is for you to take away my word. Let's go back to the official use of language and letters. Everything is regulated by law, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, and by the Constitution. You're inserting a national minority term, which is not in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Where did you get that right? You're cutting off a right to local self-government, which was extraordinary, given by the Law on Official Use of Language and Letters. The local self-government itself can establish criteria for the official use of language and letters of nationality living in the territory of the municipality. You now have a new centre in Novi Sad, which will determine what official use of language and letters will be like in the Vienna municipality, although even Belgrade has never interfered. He said, in Vienna, when people themselves vote local self-government, the statute of the municipality will determine what the procedure will look like and how the languages of the people living in the municipality will apply. You are now formulating and returning to the authority of the New Sad, the Lord was not well solved, but now the Vojvodina for the territory of the entire AP will solve it. What if it's different than in other parts of Serbia? Where there will be protection for those citizens who will think they are not equal in this country and that their rights, for example in Dimitrovgrad, are not regulated in the same way as the rights of citizens in Subotica. To which law they will be called, official use of language and letters is regulated exclusively by law. (President: Time. ) Autonomous province cannot pass the law, it will not be able to regulate the official use of language and letters at all. She has statutes and has general acts of less value. How will it determine, when the Constitution in Article 8 paragraph 2 says, official use is governed by law, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament. That law is crystal clear, clean and nothing in it should be changed. No member of any nationality has ever objected to any procedure that he could say... And who are you? And who are you? Meho Omerovic throws out of place. Who are you? There's talk here about people who don't speak Serbian.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16804	I'm warning you of a time-out, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16805	There's talk here about people who don't speak Serbian. You speak Serbian, what's wrong with you?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16806	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 52, against 84, with 25 abstentions, 23, 184 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 19th amendment. Representative, Government and Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Do you want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16807	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the 19th Proposed Law by the Autonomous District Assembly of Vojvodina treats another area of our social life that cannot be regulated in this way by this so-called. Omnibus by law. I have submitted an amendment to Article 19, which speaks of information in the territory of the AP Vojvodina and in front of the SRS parliamentary group, I have requested that points 1), 6), 8) and 9 be deleted. I will explain to you what is most important, and it is said in point 1) of this proposed member of the law, for the entire state, and therefore it is necessary for the MPs of the National Assembly to accept this amendment of the SRS parliamentary group that I have submitted. Because it poses a great danger to the general social interest, and ultimately, manipulation in the media sense can lead to a threat to the general national interests, given who is the chairman of the AP Vojvodina Assembly and who are those who represent the majority there today. The point first says, and otherwise the member speaks of an autonomous province in its territory being able to establish public ballots, public enterprises and institutions, meaning in the future. Point 1 reads: "Autonomic province, through its authorities in accordance with the law governing the field of public information: 1) determines the interest of citizens of an autonomous province in the field of information. "How is it possible to write such a member of the law at all, given that you were the best possible law Serbia had in the field of public information, which the Assembly adopted at a time when Aleksandar Vukic was the minister of information, last year abolished and did not bring a new one. And now you're saying that this member should comply with the information law that you don't have at all. On the other hand, you're saying that an autonomous province will determine what that interest is for citizens of an autonomous province in the field of information. Given that Nenad Canak is the president of the AP Assembly, that all autonomists and separatists are leading the main words in the AP and we have so far had the opportunity to see what it would look like when Nenad Canak determines what it is in the citizens' interest. I guess the interest in the field of information should be general for all citizens of Serbia, not just for those living in that territory. You're not going to say that Nenad Canak can't, and by your behavior today and what he's proposing by this law, he can come with his own crutch and say, you can't do that to me and it's not in the interest of the citizens who live in the AP territory, no matter what RTS is under your complete control. God will soon change power, so national television, national radio must objectively, professionally and impartially inform. Canak and his group can meet and say, it is our interest, because some Croats live in Vojvodina, to transfer a new NDH assembly; it can say - our interest is to transfer the assembly of the provinces of Kosovo and Metohija and the Cypriot bandits who will chair and lead the main word, along with their perhaps future coalition partners from the "Return" coalition. There's a lot of things for that family to think of, but it's not the interest of the citizens of Serbia. One more thing, if you want to be objective, if you want to be impartial, and for that you have advocated, you could, together with the President of the Assembly, make an impact, and your entire DOS lobby on RT Serbia, and that instead of those propaganda videos that we have every day to see on that TV, which is under total DOS control, we see a video that, roughly, would read and so on: to break the state, to increase the current seven or eight times, to skin the citizens with high tax rates, to do everything to make Serbia's citizens a life that's harder, to live as an abnormal world, it's not hard to be DOS's. Really, it's not hard. It should be a Serbian radical, Serbian patriot, defending his country and not giving separatists and autonomists to break it in such an anti-constitutional way.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16808	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? There is a word from MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16809	I'm looking to take another time to go out for a pay phone without you taking my word, because apparently someone who doesn't even know the president of the assembly can attend the session, and the MP can't talk about what's on the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, for those who do not know what the bill looks like, and not all those who voted in favour of and against the DOS, because they do not know how to vote, this Article 19, is to be regulated by the public information on the territory of the autonomous province, read the Vojvodina, because all the time it talks about one province, but "the hairs don't come to mind", the legislator, so as not to put into an unequal, unconstitutional position of the inhabitants of the two provinces, talks about the province in a single, and thinks, and this will be seen in Article 50, exclusively on the APV. So the area of public information is regulated and let's see how. Although the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 109 of Section 1(3), says - Autonomous province can, through its authorities, regulate certain issues of interest to the citizen of the field of communication and public information - the legislator of the law (convincing us that it is the mild powers of the Vojvodina that will never consider going far from Serbia, let alone making its own country) says literally this: "Autonomic province, through its organs, in accordance with the law governing the field of public information, determines the interest of citizens in the autonomous province of information". The Serbian Constitution does not give you the right to trust an autonomous province to determine the interest of citizens in the field of information. He says, just to sort out some information issues. It's going to happen that we're all going to be capped, like we were a few months ago, you know, I'm 50 years old, and I haven't had a mother in 40 years, and everyone can swear on my mother, but she can't swear on Serbia. There's a noise in the O.R. I watched on TV, my dear noises, as Canak curses your mother and Serbia and you are rooting for him now. He's stepping on his feet and he says, "We fought this piece of shit on October 5th." And you take it easy and you say, "Come now, Nenade, determine what our interest is in the field of information in Vojvodina." Then he'll say -- it's our interest not to see RTS on Vojvodina territory, we're not going to look at it, because it says Serbia, it says RT Serbia, and we're now encouraging a new one ( since my colleague said, and he's learning a new language, so now in Vojvodina he's going to become a new nation), we're now forming a new nation, like Serbia. If we want to work with Serbia on some issues, we'll cooperate, and if we don't want to, we won't. You will now vote for such a composition of the AP Assembly or of people like this who are here to determine what is the interest of the citizens of Vojvodina in the field of information. What else are you going to put in their hands? Point 2) says, "The basis of public hearings and public enterprises and institutions to perform news and publishing activities, printing and reproduction of recorded media and to establish radio-television. This is point 2) "A, our Constitution in Article 46, and in Section 4, it says, "The organisations of radio and television are established in accordance with the law. "Now I ask you -- by what law will this be founded in Vojvodina his own radio and his own television? Will they pass the founding law? Do we have a radio-television law? Even the government knows we don't have that law. The information laws have been destroyed since you came to power, so it says, by amendment, under the laws governing both areas. Neither the government knows what the laws are now in force, nor knows what the laws will look like, if God gives health, which one day the government intends to bring. Of course, all these supervisions, the administrative oversight of the work of radio television, which you will trust in the hands of an autonomous province, then they will say - Serbia's radio-television is not objective, it does not convey correct information, it is forbidden to work on APV territory. We will not be very threatened as a political party, nor as individuals. We have been gone to RT Serbia since you came to power, but a common state, this beautiful Serbia, will be threatened. (President: I warn on time. ) There, I warn you that we are losing Serbia in front of your eyes, and you have me overstepped in the discussion for 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16810	The word is from MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the DOS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16811	Dear Mrs. Micic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will only remind you of the constitution of defined rights and freedoms that we as MPs must respect. These corrections that the law provides, which we are discussing today in particular, seem to be something like that. I remind you that in Article 108 of the current Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which I have not had a chance to hear at this time, no one here in parliament disputes, autonomous provinces can be educated in accordance with the cultural properties of such a form of internal arrangement that, for example, in the area of culture or public information, they will meet the needs of the population in the territory of the autonomous province. So it's about the Constitution-guaranteed law, which was then suspended by some other laws, which we are trying to amend today and in such a way as to allow the province what is permitted, like the municipality or the city. Belgrade has its means of public information, just like any other municipality in Serbia or any other municipality in Vojvodina. If we give such a right to Subotica, Novi Sada, Zrenjanina, Pancheva, Kickindi, Somboru, there is no reason to have that kind of skepticism and doubt when those rights rise to one higher level. Especially since this does not call into question any kind of freedom or rights guaranteed in our society. And too often, Vojvodina itself is personalized, which in itself can be part of a political stance, but there is not much logic in that, because in the province's parliament there are elected representatives of the citizens of Vojvodina. Do not doubt those people, in the sense that this type of doubt can be identified when it comes to individuals who are allegedly going to abuse someone's right and question some kind of freedom. I think we've long had our doubts about the Law on Public Information, that we said what we had to say a year ago, about the positive or negative consequences of such a legal act, but what we're doing today is going out in the security interests of citizens living in the Vojvodina area, and at the same time we're doing demonopolization of the media space, which is monopolies in the early 1990s, and of which we didn't have as a society, not as a political force in it, absolutely no use at all, but rather, a lot of damage. That's what all the representatives of the political forces in our society talked about, the truth not at the same time, but depending on political opportunities, everyone criticized the RTS monopoly, and this is actually a step towards demonalysis. Hence, it is certainly clear why we as a parliamentary group insist on this particular member of the law, given that the area of public information for us is very important, not as an area where we will have some kind of control, but as an area where we will make public information a service of citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16812	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 54, against 89, abstention was 13, not voted 23, out of 179 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 19th amendment, with correction, were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Deretic and Zoran Novakovic. Representative, Government and Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The word has been made by MP Zoran Novakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16813	With this amendment to Article 19, we want to point to several illogicalities. Since the public has already heard that it is article 19, which regulates public information in the area of the AP Vojvodina, we have proposed that article 19 be deleted in full. Why? Because it gives a distinct right to an autonomous province to create its policy in the field of information, independently and different from the policy of the Republic, in our opinion. By the same logic, an autonomous province can block the flow of information coming from the Republic. What does that mean? This means that this may be a democratic definition that the autonomous province has the right to regulate the concept of public hearings and radios and TV stations in the province, but whether it can be the same analogy that, unless the concept of national televisions corresponds to them, let's say it's RTS, Pink, or Ju-info, to simply order the abolition of the repetitive work of these same houses in the area of the autonomous province. You can't see it anywhere around here, so in our opinion, it's one of the freedoms that has an autonomous province quite unjustly and unfairly. It says here that the interests of citizens of the autonomous province are determined in the field of information, then, for the establishment of public messages, public enterprises and institutions for the performance of news, publishing, printing and reproduction of recorded media and for the establishment of radio television. And yet, under point 7) - he controls public enterprises and institutions in the field of public information. I wouldn't repeat what my fellow MPs said before me, but it's enough to just think about what that means, whether the Republic has any authority in this area. In response to our amendment by the Government, it is said that the Government does not accept the amendment since the proposed solution stems from the constitutional authority of the Autonomous Province laid down in Article 109(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I don't want to repeat the predecessor behind this payphone, which the hour advocates the Constitution, not the hour, but I would like to repeat the finding that the Prime Minister made for this speaker the other day, where he literally said - the Constitution and the law are one thing, and life is something else entirely. Since the government has been creating our life for months, or our living conditions, I don't know how to defend this member of logic by connecting with the existing Constitution and the law. What we consider important is that what this member, in conclusion, offers with the proposal, and supports the Serbian government, is in contradiction with the principles of our programme, that is, the programme of democratic national parties and parties in Serbia. So, however it may be decided here, we will fight for the return and dignity of Serbia's historic role, and all that is voted in this assembly without matching Serbia's national interest, very soon these democratic national forces will change in the same assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16814	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? Yes, MP Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16815	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to support the amendment to Article 19. - to delete article 19, but with a completely different argument than the one that's just been exposed. Because apparently this article shows how many creators of this so-called. The omnibus laws enslaved the old communist dogmas and prejudices. They so slave to the communist ideology, that at the first point of this member they say that the autonic province through its organs determines the interest of citizens in the autonomous province in the field of information. Listen to that formula - the autonomous province determines the interest of the citizens. It's an incredible formulation. Of course, you'll vote for it, as you all vote for it, it doesn't matter. You don't care what the consequences will be. First, according to the basic rules of Serbian language, it cannot be said -- it determines the interest of citizens, but determines the interest of citizens or instead of citizens. Say what you really want to say? Do you want the AP to determine interest instead of citizens? Or to determine something that is of interest to the citizens? Well, I who fought against the communist regime, at a time when it was very dangerous, couldn't swallow something like this. First, you DOSs are running your pre-election program. You swore to privatization, you privatized yourself in a hurry, where it's very dangerous, and where you need to be careful, weigh every step, like. With regard to the abolition of these major state banks, and in the field of information there is no relevance to privatisation. So what's the country's public record doing anyway? What's the municipal public record for? If our goal is privatisation, then privatisation is much easier to implement in social activities than in the sphere of the financial system. The media sphere is ideal for carrying out full privatisation, and you here monopolize the sphere with the province's organs, giving it into their hands, and besides that you don't even mention that there will be media except for those declared by the province's authorities, which they establish. That other side doesn't interest you at all. What there is that leads to privatisation - nothing. You will this way, and this process has started in Serbia since 1996, since the arrival of the early Coalition "Together" to power in a large number of municipalities, will go towards a full etatization of public media, especially electronics. Instead of the authorities of local self-government or the autonomous authorities of the province tending primarily to make the lives of citizens more viable in their territory, now the presidents of the municipalities will compete, especially these presidents who will have absolute authority in the administrative branch of government, who will have a medium with greater reach, with a stronger frequency? Budget funds, instead of being used for socially beneficial purposes, will be spent exclusively on personal and other promotions. What would be a better solution - the urgent privatisation of New Sad TV, New Sad Radio and the urgent privatisation of all local media in Serbia. That would be a democratic solution. What else to create Hungarian shows in Hungarian, what to do by the state, when every village can have both Serbian and Hungarian local television? Every place, every city, every municipality. Is that a problem now? In the field of education, it should be kept in mind that the rights of all national minorities are strictly respected, to be provided to them in state schools teaching in the national language, etc., but why, in this way, an ethical approach in the media sphere, when the sphere has long been mature for full privatisation?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16816	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) I am putting the amendment, which was put together by MPs Jovan Deretic and Zoran Novakovic, on the 19th vote. For 54, against 74, abstentioned 15, 27, a total of 170 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 19th amendment was submitted by MP Branko Ruzic. Representative, Government and Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. ) There is a word from MP Branislav Ivkovic, president of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16817	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I understand those who earn, because they just, they know in advance what they have to vote for, and you try to understand us, who are trying to tell you again that you don't really need to know what's right and what's best. You see, the information is already being discussed, and it's also been said about RTS, and I'm going to allow myself to say what I'm saying about the exclusive journal of Saturday's information program, which was run by a corporate lady, I hear, the pet of a new editor-in-chief, and more later on. Article 19 speaks of an autonomous province, through its bodies, which, in accordance with the law, regulates certain parts in the field of public information. However, there is one problem, which none of the previous speakers mentioned - so far we have had the opportunity to discuss those areas of life in Serbia that are governed by laws and we have made an objection from the opposition that so far is never the right to control and control the application of republican laws transposed, nor can it be done, in a particular area, just one part of Serbia, and, in fact, to exempt sovereignty. When it comes to information, we have a much more unpleasant situation -- the public information law in this assembly has been abolished. We don't have a public information law. We have only the view that we are calling for solutions related to information in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. And what is happening now - if we do points 6) and 7) define that the province of Vojvodina exercises administrative control over the application of the provisions of the Public Information Act, which no longer exists, because it says that the provision of the Constitution of Serbia is in force, and under 7) controls in public enterprises and institutions in the blast of public information, we say, in fact, that the right to control and control constitutional solutions in the field of information, the Republic, as a single state, the Republic of Serbia, is transferred to the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina. So it gives it the right to regulate itself to oversee and control the application of the Serbian Constitution. It is probably far above all rights and possibilities that this congregation can afford, except to bring a new constitution to it, to determine everything. This Article 19 does not comply with constitutional principles, because the state interest in the field of information must be regulated in a unique manner in a single state. If we leave Articles 3, 6, 7 and 8 of essential state activities to the AP Vojvodina, we allow that one part of the territory does not have a single solution, as is the case in the Republic of Serbia. What else do you say about that? It's already here and it's said -- this is far more than just a simple and mere transfer of jurisdiction. And as for RTS and the information program, which was led by one lady, during the summer, on Saturday, in an exclusive term, it was enough to say that everything that was happening on Kamchatka, where the power shortage significantly disrupted the country's security, and further, it did not matter that the journal showed a high decline in professional values on RTS.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16818	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? Nobody. I put this amendment to the vote. For 52, against 80, with 20 abstentions, did not vote 23, out of 175 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment to article 19 was submitted jointly by MPs Ratimir Svirčević, Zivica Predojev, Teodora Vlahović and Kermeci Karolj. The proposing representative and the government have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone in the name of the applicant of the amendment want a word? Nobody. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 10, against 104 abstentions of 22, 38 of the 174 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 19 of the amendment, with correction, was filed by MP Branislav Grubaski. Representative, Government and Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you are, MP Branislav Grubaski.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16819	I have submitted an amendment in the proposal for a law laying down certain competences of the autonomous province on Article 19(1) of point 5). A clearer formulation should be carried out, so that point 5 of this article reads: "It appoints and resolves members of the board of directors and directors of public enterprises and institutions and the responsible editor of newspapers and radio-television programmes whose founder is an autonomous province". Which is why I have submitted this amendment, even though I've been from experts in the hallway, to whose opinion I hold, to the conclusion that it's actually legal pleonasm, what it's going to be. I don't think so, and now I'm going to say why. In view of the provisions of Article 109(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, given the expressed mood of citizens and workers of the electronic media in Vojvodina, and given the principled political agreements that the founding rights of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina towards public votes are also rounded by the return of law to the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina to establish radio and television, it is logical that this is confirmed in a complete and precise manner by this law. In the light of the law, the proposer says, and for the sake of public information, means, in the light of its proposal - The Autonomous Region of Vojvodina was the founder of Novi Sad Radio Television until the adoption of the Radio Television Act. By passing that law, Radio TV Novi Sad has become part of RTS. I would also remind citizens and MPs that in 1991, practically, this law executed an anexia of RT Novi Sad and therefore seized TV by Novi Sad citizens of Vojvodina, who built the same television with their money. So far, the inaccuracy of such provisions has sometimes caused very large misunderstandings, complications and speculation in the functioning of electronic media and raised political tensions in relations between the authorities of the Republic and the province. I'll set an example for that. Let's say, in an absolutely irregular and incorrect situation, this fall we are from the RTS Management Board, the Legal Committee, under this law which is now in force, instead of the candidates of the Vojvodina Assembly, the candidate for director of TV Novi Sad, as well as for the editors-in-chiefs voted for by most MPs in the Vojvodina Assembly, and to remind 120 there are 118 members of DOS, so most of them, instead, we got "Pera and Mice" for directors and editors of TV Novi Sad. Of course, such directors and editors were known to date only to the RTS Management Board. Also, as a result of such an irregular story, instead of Urbanes, the core of future television as deserved by the citizens of Vojvodina, recycled Vucelic's staff, are ready to defend the interest of Vojvodina just as they have done in recent years, during the regime of Slobodan Milosevic. More and more of that TV New Now is starting to look like another TV, a new Sad TV Bridge. For the installation of such a policy on TV Novi Now are the most responsible members of the RTS Management Board, which is composed so that there is simply no hearing about the duchy situation and whose members were more concerned about their, almost, ambassadorial positions and the return of foreign debts from nationalist positions, of course. For these reasons, I believe that, in order to complete and specify Article 19 of the Law establishing certain competences of the Autonomous Province, it should be incorporated into it and the amendment that I have proposed. This complementarity and precision is necessary for the sake of consistent application of the principles which are respected in Articles 7, 12, 13, 14, and 15 of this law, because the function of radio and television is not only exhaustive in the information domain, but has a very significant creative and pro-pulsive role in the domain of culture and education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16820	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? The word will be given to MP Stevan G. Guduric as representative of the parliamentary group, and then to Aleksandar Vucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16821	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if this is the only paper delivered by MP Branislav Grubaski, then you couldn't even let him speak, since it says here - the amendment in Article 5, and then comes the text he was talking about. As far as I'm concerned, we're talking about article 19. So you couldn't even let him speak at all, and even when you gave him your word, what we heard only strengthened us in the belief that we shouldn't vote for this amendment to the Parliament of the People's Council and not for the law in general, which will follow at the end of the day-long story. But if someone submits an amendment to Article 5, then it cannot be considered under Article 19, because it is simply not the same.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16822	It happens because of tiredness not to be followed closely. So, on Article 19 of the amendment with the correction, MP Branislav Grubaski submitted. In any case, the intervention would be valid if there were no corrections and you would have shortened the time if you had heard that the amendment had been filed with the correction. The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16823	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, peoples and citizens of Serbia, the SRS parliamentary group is against the proposed amendment for several reasons. Not because he fundamentally changes what was proposed by the Law on Determining Jurisdiction, but because he is trying in one psychological way to tell Serbian citizens and all MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia that we would have to give even greater rights, competencies and prerogatives to the autonomous province, i.e. the future republic of Vojvodina. Why did I say this? Here today was an amazing debate about what jobs are entrusted to an autonomous province, and what jobs are in its exclusive jurisdiction. The question now arises, if these are also entrusted jobs, and they are entrusted businesses, who is going to be the supervisory authority, as the board of directors or any other body, to control the work of entrusted jobs of anyone in the Radio-Television of Novi Sad or any other institution, which, from this point on, will be managed by the AP Vojvodina as a trusted business. I think we're doing something else here. We are making one precedent, which will be sufficient for later, different legal-political interpretation and for formal-legal separation, and in this sphere of social life, the AP Vojvodina from the entire Serbian system, and even in the media sphere. Why are we against this amendment? As I said, it does not change anything significant, except that responsible editors will be elected by the founder, or autonomous province, so the question arises how is it possible for something, where Serbia's highest legal act found that the founder is someone else, how can suddenly become the AP Vojvodina founder? How, if it's someone else's property? Who's going to be given to management? You say public service should be made from Serbian Radio-Television, and there will be no more state media, but will be privatised and will have to work professionally and objectively, and just now, the representative of this amendment has sent a warning from this speaker that everything should look like Urbans to us, as he thinks. I think it's the worst program, it's an anti-Serbian program. I don't think the Serbs can look at it with their eyes in Vojvodina. Remember, Serbs, who are over 80% in the northern Serbian province. He presented his personal opinion and said -- that's objective, that's how it has to be. If it can't be that way and if there is someone who, for example, will hold back and defend Radovan Karadzic, Ratko Mladic, the other Serbian patriots, can't behave like that. Because it doesn't match Grub or anyone else. Because he imagined it to be objective, the way he liked it, the way they wanted it to be. Why don't you tell us that's the essence of such a proposal? Why don't you tell us what you want to do with Vojvodina, what do you want to do with the Republic of Serbia in such a way, completely open? This is good, at least we finally heard what is the aim of the legislator and the amendment promoter. Just in case they make sure no one else gets involved in that kind of business. I don't know who they are or whose frames they are. I can't say, the amendment promoter didn't even say anything about anyone from the Serbian Radical Party, but I have to say something, that if you're talking about the objectivity of this television, that I'm not talking about other televisions, but it's state television and don't forget that those who voted for the SRS in Vojvodina, and right behind DOS, the Serbian Radical Party received the most votes in the December elections, behind the single DOS in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, for those who don't know. There are no Serbian radicals there, there are no living heads either, but you will bring Sonja Biserko, Natasu Kandic, all possible anti-Serbs to tell Serbs that they shouldn't and cannot be Serbs, anything that comes to mind, in the way they think, and then you will say - that's democracy, that's what we stand for. Save us the god of such democracy, save us the god of such success, your victory in this supreme legislative body. I hope that this law, which imposes chaos in the legal order, puts chaos in the legal order in the right sense, because it is not known which laws are in force today, which laws do not apply, will not pass. (President: five minutes and 30 seconds. I'll finish, I've seen, Madam Chairman, at least you don't interrupt me three seconds after it's past that time, you waited 30. So you don't know which back is specialis in relation to which law, which will be positive, which will therefore apply, which will not apply, and therefore I call on you not to accept such a law, of course, and these amendments. Because if we do not accept such a law, we will show that we care about the rights, about the state, and by accepting such amendments we would show to the entire people of Serbia, to all the citizens of our Republic, that we do not care about the citizens of Serbia, or the citizens of Vojvodina, or the Vojvodina as territory, or Serbia as a state.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16824	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? In the words of MP Borislav Pelevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16825	Dear citizens of Serbia, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Soviet Union will not vote for the adoption of this amendment for a simple reason why this amendment is even more radically influencing the split of Serbia's single information system, including the entire Republic of Serbia. We believe that, if a single national information house, such as Serbia's Radio-Television, is torn apart, it means, above all, the first step towards breaking up the single Republic of Serbia. It is clear to me that the proposer of this amendment comes from Mr. Nenada Canka's party, which has in its programme the separation of Serbia into six republics and which Vojvodina sees exclusively as a republic. This leads to all stories of the return of autonomy to the AP Vojvodina. They simply want an independent republic of Vojvodina and want Chanko as the new Ibrahim Rugova in the northern Serbian province. That's probably why he wears a scarf, because Ibrahim Rugova is his idol and role model.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16826	I ask the MP to return to the subject of an amendment that corrects and legally defines the appointment of directors and editors-in-chief and responsible.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16827	Thank you, Madam Chairman, but I'm on the subject right now. Therefore, this amendment further wants to give autonomy, or even more rights to the autonomous province of Vojvodina, to edit a unique national radio-television. To repeat what I said in the principle debate, Serbian Unity Foreigners would absolutely not mind if the proposal suggests that Vojvodina TV is called Serbia's Radio-Television - Vojvodina Radio-Television. This is acceptable for us, but to remind you that in 1991 we had the separation of the information programme, so there was the Radio-Television of Croatia, the Radio-Television of Slovenia, the Radio-Television of Macedonia, and we have in the southern Serbian province of the Radio-Television of Kosovo. I would not want another independent Vojvodina Radio Television to be done, completely independent of RTS and completely independent of Serbia, and that is exactly what the Proposer wants, and that is why I appeal to everyone not to accept this amendment, to reject this law as a whole, and to return to the promoter for further work, in order to really return the autonomous rights of Vojvodina, and in no way to establish an independent republic of Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16828	National MP Branislav Grubački, a replica of the presentation of MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16829	Because of these comments, which we have heard here from all three commentators, I would say that Vojvodina must have full control in the media sphere in order to decantify and decontamination in the media sphere. That's it. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the scene: a violation of the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16830	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? Injury of the Rules of Procedure. MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16831	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think that the fact that Madam Vice President is running this session temporarily, just like the one who's president, does not give the right to deafen himself to every word spoken for by this speaker. I can even understand that in that enthusiasm after October 5, you were talking about state television that it was Nazi. There, he held someone before you, and you took them off the force, he can't defend himself in any way anymore, it's fine. But from October 5th to today, 18 months of RTS is holding DOS. How can you not react here when you are told that this television is Nazi? You're not ashamed to accept a sin on Serbia to have her television run by the Nazis, even if you're DOS. Where are these features of Nazism on RTS, which is indicated by a high-ranking MP, whom you have brought here into the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia thanks to your votes and your reputation. What, so he doesn't walk into the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. That's it. You opened Pandora's box. You're digging through Serbia, you're looking for war criminals, you're looking for bodies, your Nazi television is, and you're taking it all. When I come out to reprove you gently, you direct all your hatred on me. Is he guilty, like the Spartans, the one who brings bad news or the one who lost a battle out there somewhere. I'm not going to put up with it here in this congregation to let the unpunished one who says that RTS is our Nazi. If that's what you want, go ahead. I suggest to the one who said that next time he goes out for a pay phone or when he comes back from it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16832	Although the MP did not mention a member of the Rules of Procedure who was violated, it is understood that this is a responsibility for the public use of the word for the speaker. We can take a look at the stenogram. People's MP Branislav Grubaski spoke of a denanciation in the spheres of life. It is just as objective or subjective as any other MP when he makes his views known, there is no mention of television and television characteristics. He said denatization of the media sphere, that's his point of view. If he'd stayed behind the pay phone, I'd have asked him to take care of it so that he could cause these reactions. If you take for yourself the right to have your own attitude and place it as objective, then at the same time you receive the obligation to listen to other people's attitudes as objective. National MP Borislav Pelevic came forward for a replica, I presume. The basis for the replica, a comment from the previous three speakers. That's recognition. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16833	Thank you, Madam Chairman, for identifying what he really meant by the Social Democrats League MP when he was talking about denanciation. When the Social Democrats League MP Vojvodina tells the SSJ that it is fascist, and when it is known that the leader of the party takes down the national television symbol, throws it on the floor, gazes it, and behaves very rudely, even profanely swears, then for the SSJ it is a compliment when such MPs and such a leader of the DOS calls the SSJ a fascist and Nazi party. I would like to thank you for your compliment, Mr. MP, for your honor.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16834	National MP Zivica Predojev, as president of the parliamentary group Reformists of the Vojvodina Sandzak Democratic Party, has appeared, in violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Then, MP Stevan G. Guduric, on the same basis, and then MP Aleksandar Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16835	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, distinguished guests, respected presidency, it seems I must always point to the same member of this Rules of Procedure who is constantly hurting this speaker. I am talking about Article 220, and I will read the first position of that member again: "The MP has the right to be informed of all the questions necessary for the function of the MP. "Why did I say that? Because so much has been said for this speaker, it's getting very hard to listen. That's what I'd say. That's why I'm gonna do a part of it. I will have to inform a number of MPs in this assembly about a few things: I must tell you, dear gentlemen, Tito died, Slobodan Milosevic is in The Hague, and Vojvodina is the autonomy of the Republic of Serbia and has no intention of being anything other than that; in the Constitution, gentlemen, Vojvodina is the majority Serbian. ; in this Vojvodina, which you here declare a Taliban republic or something else, it is part of the Republic of Serbia, which wants this Serbia to be better and better tomorrow, unlike many of you sitting here. Thank you. I ask the Assembly to make a statement as to whether a member of 220 has been broken.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16836	Under Article 220, the MP has the right to be informed of all the questions necessary to carry out the function of the MP. I assume that the violation of this provision of the Rules of Procedure implies that some MPs did not consume the same. I ask the National Assembly to declare whether the position of Article 1 220 has been violated. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. For 29, against 52, abstentioned 15, there was no vote of 84, a total of 180 MPs. This means that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly is not injured in this attitude. National MP Stevan G. Guduric, violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16837	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, seems to be heard here only when opposition MPs speak and when they speak some others, and then the chairman of something overlooks, hears, doesn't understand, so that's why these things are being told here, if someone talks in the language that Mr Grubasky speaks, it certainly deserves something. What is absolutely necessary, if we are talking about decontamination, then let's talk about decontamination in the Serbian people that it is represented by Mr. Canak and similar; they should indeed be decontaminated from the Serbian people.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16838	National MP Stevan G. Guduric did not specify a provision of the Rules of Procedure he deems violated. With my apologies, I haven't been able to track down any of those provisions. The People's MP, Alexander Wuccic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16839	Ladies and gentlemen of the peoples, peoples and citizens of Serbia, we have listened for several years, especially a year and a half, all and all about the Serbian people, about the Serbian state. Everyone who thought of it had dared to implement some deanification, because, to God, in Serbia, the living Nazis, live those who created Nazi Serbia, fortunately their project failed, and now they've come a new, nice and smart one who will cure the people and the citizens of Serbia, to take us to Europe, to be much better, nicer and different than we've ever been before. That, gentlemen, is a disgrace to Serbia and it is the sinister face of Serbia. That's disgusting, because everything that's Serbian you want to throw under your feet and for everything that people have done and fought over over the past years, decades and centuries, you're saying that it was the biggest and worst shame for our people. So for you Serbs who have fought for the freedom of Eastern Slavonia and Western Srema, the Nazis, are criminals, so you apologize to the Croats and Ustashas, however you will, for what they have done, killing members of the Serb family who have defended and protected their hearths, you are able to reveal monuments to their dignitaries...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16840	Please talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16841	I'm not talking about hurting the Rules of Procedure, I'm replicating Mr. Gruback. He didn't get a line on my exposure, but who knows whose, three he mentioned, he didn't even call on them. Don't react, Madam Chairman, and you'll count my time for throwing some out of the bench, saying they don't like what I'm saying, so they'd like to interrupt me.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16842	Mr. Branislav Grubaski has been given the right to replication of your presentation and Mr. Pelevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16843	Then it is quite enough for you that he insulted not only the MPs, but also the whole people in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16844	You will have to use the mechanism of the Rules of Procedure as a representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16845	But can I finish my discussion?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16846	Of course. You asked for a word as well as a member of the SPS. You work with both the president and the deputy parliamentary group, and that's how you get your word. As representative of the parliamentary group, you must appeal to the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16847	So the chairman had to prevent, give a warning to a speaker who was such an insult to the account of the Serb people and to the expense of the MPs. Why are individual MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia doing so? They don't have the arguments. Their arguments are that only they speak without giving their political opponents any chance of telling them anything, what they think. Let me tell you something, you can talk about Serbia, about dedication, you can talk about lustration, you can talk about whatever you want, but that shame you left on the face of the Serbian people, it won't be easy to erase, be safe. But whatever it is, it's not your Duke's, you're not defending the Vojvodina, and you're not going to say that there are Nazis there. Mine's from there as much as yours. It won't be so that you get more votes there than we do Serbian radicals. You wouldn't even get 2% of the votes. Some others have brought you into this assembly, saying you would never advocate the republic of Vojvodina, telling other stories, not stories about Serbia's denunciation. This Serbia is not your front. It's not the Nazis, it's a free-loving people, a people who have defended their freedom, their homeland, their hearth. You won't, because you would like to watch Urbans, so you would like to accuse the Serbs because they were killed in Knin, Benkovec, Vojnic, Klina, Petrovac, Key, Drvar, to accuse the Serbian people and to say, for you Serbs is noose, for you is a stake. You, Democrats, think you'll be able to manage the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina in that way. That's not gonna happen, be assured. (Glass: That's right, Wolfie.) )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16848	There's a word from MP Branislav Grubaski.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16849	I'm just going to say that I've said very precisely - a denacification in the media sphere. You can take a look at that in a stenogram. Anyone watching television across Serbia can see hate spreading, both religious, racial and all kinds of TV. In that sense, I was saying that we need to make a denanciation from these spaces.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16850	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to Article 19 to the vote, with the correction submitted by MP Branislav Grubaski. For 18, against 116, the 26 abstentions did not vote 24, a total of 184 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 19 of the amendment. The proposing representative accepted this amendment by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. On the 20th amendment, in the same text, MP Milan Stankovic and MP Dragan Markovic submitted. Representative, Government and Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16851	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SPS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 20, which regulates the area of health care in the APV. This arrangement is achieved by Article 20 at the 10th point. So, the autonomous province is established, through its bodies, health institutions, bringing in a specific health care programme, determining the fulfilment of the prescribed conditions, educating the expert examination committee, giving an opinion on the proposal to obtain the name of the primarius, contracting the price of individual services, i.e. the programme of health institutions going to the budget, performing health inspection tasks, overseeing the professional work of health institutions and overseeing the legality of the work of health institutions. Many of the jobs that Vojvodina itself would have mentioned are not at all controversial for the SPS. The SPS advocates any solution that will facilitate health care for all citizens and, of course, advocates a single Serbia at the same time, as only such a state can provide citizens with complete security and security. The SPS has proposed to delete Article 20 for at least two reasons. The first reason is that the proposed member of this law, meaning Article 20, is anti-constitutional. Points 9) and 10) of the proposed member shall be entrusted with supervision, and that is to say, point 9) shall be said - overseeing the professional work of health institutions, health workers and health associates, and at point 10) - the Autonomous Province shall supervise the legality of the work of health institutions. The issues of surveillance, under the Constitution, cannot be trusted by the province's authorities. Secondly, the transfer of rights must provide adequate appropriations in the budget. On the other hand, one practical question arises whether the citizens of Vojvodina would be better off, or whether they would be better treated, even if the Constitution were broken. The constitution is obviously violated when it comes to surveillance, and surveillance has little to do with ordinary citizens. It won't be better for the citizens if their surveillance is done by Canak instead of Djindjic. The next big reason why we suggested eradicating this article is that its adoption would violate the single system of health care, and it is necessary, because it is cheaper first and secondly far more just. Cheaper because it does not double the administration, if it works a hundred inspectors in Belgrade, if this law would be passed, it would have to do at least as much in Novi Sad. The unique system is more just because all citizens of Serbia, including Vojvodina, puts them in an equal position. If the proposed law were to be passed, for example, it means that the citizens of Panchev will not be able to get a closer look at Belgrade, but even in Novi Sad, and thus collect their treatment. Or they won't be able to get directions for treatment of bronchitis, some of the other diseases specific to the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina, such as asthma, emphysema, etc., so they won't be able to be treated by baths in Serbia's interior. In this way, direct damage will be done to the citizens, and the only benefit from this law will be the ruling oligarchy in Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16852	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? National MP Branislav Ivkovic, president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16853	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I understand that fatigue does its part and that each of us is losing patience, but simply, each of us has a moral obligation to represent the interests of the citizens who elected us to this assembly. The area of health and health care, besides education, is certainly an area that must certainly raise attention to each and every one of us and requires that, however, what we mean on behalf of those who chose us. The speaker, last Tuesday, was told by a man who threatened to accidentally fail us to stand up against this law without allowing any amendment to that variant proposed by the assembly he chaired. It is also clear to the largest political layman in Serbia that the key and destabilising factor in the political sense of Serbia is the rural assembly chaired by Nenad Canak, Nenad Canak, who has allowed 117 MPs in this assembly to call fascists just because they did not vote for the law in principle. Now, this man cried out -- where is our money; to get to what we have in Article 20 of the proposed "bus law" or "bus law," as they call it. Article 20 speaks of health care. There are no stories in Article 20 about where our money is. But there are stories that the province is overseeing the professional work of health institutions, health workers and health associates, overseeing the legality of the work of health institutions. All solutions given in Article 20 in the field of health care must indicate that they are totally contrary to the Constitution, Article 72(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, because the Republic of Serbia, under the Constitution, Article 72(2), is uniquely governed by the area of health care throughout the territory. So, this solution essentially gives us some kind of citizens of the first, the citizens of the second, and probably the citizens of the 50th order, because now the District Assembly, although formally belonging to the territory of the Republic of Serbia, will be able in all these ten points, in complete disharmony with the continent of the Republic of Serbia, to participate in the regulation of health and health care. Of course, there's nothing here about Serbia's electricity, there's nothing about mine wealth, it's going to be taken, and what's its own, it's sticking.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16854	The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16855	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the debate has shown that the bill is not right. The debate showed that the promoter does not know what he wants with this law, because he first accepted part of the Serbian government's amendment, and then all amendments. But I warn you that only now, or only now, will we make such a mess in this law, that it will be practically inapplicable or that it will be so applicable to us that people will be in wonder. In fact, if I remind you of our discussions today and yesterday, we warned you about this administrative oversight, the supervision of acts, the law enforcement, you always told us that this was entrusted by the Republic to the authorities of the Autonomous province and that it could trust you, that it had the right to trust, even though it was the jurisdiction to be established by the Constitution of Serbia and the Statute of the Autonomous Province, but you will, after the amendments submitted by the MPs to Article 20, probably receive information that the motioner also accepted the amendment of the Government to Article 20. The amendment of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, for the first time in these 20 members of the bill, is either taking away or refusing to grant Vojvodina the right to exercise supervision in healthcare. The question now arises, if the autonic province can exercise administrative oversight and control over the legality of acts and the implementation of the law on official use of language and letter, in the field of information, higher and higher education, from which the Government of the Republic of Serbia now deletes points 8) and 10) of this Article of the Law. So, he won't give the nuanced province the jobs of a health inspection, he won't give supervision of the professional work of health institutions, health workers and health associates, and he won't give supervision of the legality of the work of health institutions, and the bill promoter says - we accept all amendments to the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Who is not consistent here now, or since none of you are consistent here, who is less consistent in this bill, in the amendments, in its final text? Is there one legislator who would agree to cut the text out of him like this and keep it as his draft law; or, what kind of government of the Republic of Serbia, waiting for the Parliament of the AP to pass such an important package of laws or omnibus laws, then on that proposal to make 30 amendments and to blackmail some parliamentary groups here that they must accept all amendments of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and even when they are completely opposed to the proposal that has been put forward by the author - the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina. Please, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let's stop working on the passing of this law, to throw this all in the waste basket, this law deserves nothing else. Only the formation of an autonomous province if we change, so that in over 30 laws it begins to perform these functions, it will last for years. We must change the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia this year. We can't change it like this, you can say -- what it says doesn't apply, what we pass, will apply; as the Constitutional Court is established, so until he decides what happens, we'll have a new constitution with which all this will be in accordance. Throw this, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to act as a state, and you change, enter the changes of the Constitution. Don't negotiate with the Vojvodina Assembly for months on this bill. If you need their support, negotiate changes to the Constitution, don't waste valuable time. For a year we've had this junk (showing material), this isn't law, this isn't anything like -- who's going to sign this law now and say, yes, this is exactly what I wanted when I gave you the bill? Proposer's representative? Well, this isn't his law. Serbian government? Well, she's not gonna let anyone use this either. Let's do more serious jobs, think about it -- why the high prices are, why the Elektroprivreda of Serbian citizens, as the Prime Minister told us last night. Let's do something serious. This is a serious National Assembly, not a football field assembly, after the game, and before or after the bar. Please stop making this law. Bring in another proposal, submit an acceptable proposal, agree as a political group that was on a political list. Don't search your conflicts over our backs.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-28-0.u16856	As chairman of the National Assembly, in accordance with Article 84(2) and Article 220(1). Rules of Procedure, I am obliged to provide the necessary information to the MP and the answer to the question that the laws, after adoption in particular and in general, are signed by the President of the Republic of Serbia. I'm sure the Omak MP forgot that information from the Constitution and procedure. Since we have finished our work today, we continue our work on this amendment tomorrow at 10.00 p.m. Thank you.
