ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18268	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Rules of Procedure have been violated by the subsequent inclusion of this item in the agenda. According to the Rules of Procedure, once a fixed agenda for an emergency session cannot be changed. Only the order of the dots can be changed. For this part of the agenda, it was necessary to convene a new emergency session. Of course, this new emergency session could have been in the current break, but the business form had to be respected. I'll remind you of a similar situation somewhere from May last year. During the session, an initiative was launched to vote on the Kosovo and Metohija status declarations and a new session had to be scheduled. In this case, we have an article 164 ahead of us. The Rules of Procedure, which states: "At an extraordinary meeting, the National Assembly is working on a pre-established agenda submitted by the applicant for holding an emergency session." So, the agenda is predetermined. It shall be established before the start of the session, it shall be determined in the very request for an extraordinary sitting and the Assembly shall be obliged to bind its work exclusively to that agenda. Article 2 of the same article says "The order of consideration of the agenda points cannot be changed without the consent of the proposing representative, whose request is scheduled for an extraordinary meeting". The promoter cannot add a new item to the agenda, even with the consent of the Assembly. This agreement of the Assembly is of no importance at all. The assembly must be convened every time an authorised applicant requests an emergency session and the Assembly does not declare itself on the agenda, because it is being established in advance. It was not possible, according to the Rules of Procedure, for the Assembly to declare the completion of the agenda. An emergency session, or emergency session, was to be scheduled. Of course, it does not mean much to you to suggest a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and this apparition is not for you to change your position in relation to the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, but for the public to know that you respect the principle of constitutionality and legality of Parliament's work.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18269	Does MP Vojislav Seselj want the Assembly to declare the injury of the Rules of Procedure? (Vojislav Seselj: First explanation. I am pleased that the MP is in agreement with the presidency’s intention to always give an explanation. Therefore, the fact that the National Assembly has decided to place this point on the agenda of the extraordinary session, and according to a proposal from an authorised proposing who called for an extraordinary session, can be interpreted if only a Article 164 is invoked. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly; however, interpretation of Article 166 concerning the extraordinary session may be sought and the Assembly shall apply the same procedure as in the ordinary sitting at an emergency session. The precedent that you mentioned concerned the resolutions on Kosovo and Metohija and the presidency's position, and as chairman, I am taking responsibility for putting this proposal on the agenda, is that the resolution on Kosovo and Metohija and on the subject - Kosovo and Metohija - always deserves a special session of the Assembly, and I believe that the Assembly has not made a mistake and has rightly done what this item of the agenda has done, because of its content and because of the agreement of the promoters, by a decision of the National Assembly included in the agenda. Do you want the Assembly to plead on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. I ask the People's Assembly to plead on the violation of the Rules of Procedure. For 54, against 109 abstentions, three did not vote 19, a total of 185 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the motion to violate the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. National MP Marijan Risticevic has a proposal for the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18270	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have a proposal in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Article 105, paragraph 2, which I will quote: "The distance measure from the session can be given to the MP and without measures previously spoken, in the event of a physical attack, or another similar procedure that endangers the physical or moral integrity of the participants of the session, in the building of the National Assembly." On Thursday, after we finished working, when we lost the quorum, Mr. MP Tomislav Nikolic got upset, pulled the microphone out of the pay phone and threw it into the O.R. Therefore, I ask that the Assembly plead and that the MP Tomislav Nikolic, because of this vandal act, step away from the session. A team before the last meeting of the few opposition MPs had no tone at all on RTS, so their tone was cut off, and they never, never thought of it, ripped off their microphones and threw them around the assembly. So, I ask that the Assembly, without a search, make a statement about my proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18271	I am obliged to tell Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, before your right to replicate In order to maintain order in the session, which is applied and determined according to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the President of the National Assembly shall have the discretionary right. [[Repeats Ambassador Nikolic seeking replica]] So, according to the Rules of Procedure, Article 102, the National Assembly could vote on this to put forward the proposal by the National Assembly president and then, without a search, the National Assembly gives the measure. Since neither the chairman nor the president of the National Assembly has made such a proposal, there can be no vote on it. National MP Tomislav Nikolic, right to replica, on the proposal of MP Marijana Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18272	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on Thursday, there was a severe violation of the Rules of Procedure, when Mrs Comic, by doing some equilibristics, escaped from pointing to the violation of both the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution, when you decided to put one point into the agenda of the extraordinary session, which is unremembered in the practice of democratic countries. The agenda of the extraordinary session of the Assembly does not govern at all and you were not the property to make such a decision. She's been pretending not to see my raised hand to report a breach to the Rules of Procedure, and that's what all the MPs saw -- that I asked for; she put it to a vote, and then she gave me the word to object to the breach of the Rules of Procedure, but of course you refused to listen to what I mean. The assembly lost the quorum, Mrs. Comic immediately looked at the screen to see when you would be below 126 in order to interrupt the session; perhaps I should have searched this whole pay phone and challenged the disfellowshipping session. After all, if your violation of the Constitution wasn't a sin, I'd go through a pay phone for me, my family and my party would be the slightest sin. But how could Marijan Risticevic warn me about the injuries of the Rules of Procedure and vandal behaviour, when we could barely stop him from taking off Serbia's coat of arms, only the day before; police came to beat him. When he saw how many cops came, he turned his tail and ran away, and the rat got him to get his ass kicked. He who does not respect Serbia's coat of arms does not deserve to sit in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia as a national MP. I don't like the five-pointer, but when you do... (louds - love, love) No, but you love her more than I do. You haven't changed it in two years. When you make a decision to change your coat of arms, when the coat of arms is changed, I will respect that coat of arms because it is the coat of arms of the Republic of Serbia, as long as it applies. You can pretend that you don't love him, but he -- there he stands very strikingly.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18273	Do any of the MPs have any objections to the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I am opening a principle search on the agenda point - Proposal for a law on the granting of guarantees from the Republic of Serbia to the Credit Institute for Reconstruction (Credit für Njiederaufbau) for the task of the Public Enterprise "Electroprivreda Srbija". Does the Proposer, or the Proposer's representative, want a word? There's a minister, Mr. Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18274	Dear President, honourable Members of the People, ladies and gentlemen, you have before you a bill of a special kind that has not been seen in this house for ten years. Today's proposal is another kind of break of bad practice that has existed all these ten years of the former regime. For the first time, you see that executive power comes before parliament, to pass a guarantee law where the state provides guarantees, where budgets are guaranteed in case the borrower, and in this case, "Electroprivred Serbia", will not be able to pay for it. One of the qualities of democracy and parliamentaryism is that the executive power, whenever it gives a guarantee that will commit future budgets, must come before this home, so that the entire public and this home are familiar with it. I am very glad that this closes a very ugly period in which Parliament and the public were avoided in any way knowing what was going on in public finances, and above all in guaranteeing. We have very bad examples, when it happened that the governor of the National Bank of Yugoslavia gave guarantees by hand and by their own means, so some foreign states thought they had received a sovereign guarantee from the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, and that neither the Federal Assembly, and even less this assembly, had any information about it. We return to this proposal to the spirit of parliamentaryism. One of the next points of this session will be -- the law on the budget system, where it will be pedantically done. There is a very simple philosophy, and in this case it happens, the executive power in the future will have to, for any more significant credit, where the state guarantee is given, get a vote by the Assembly on that. That is why it will not be possible to ensure that the Republic of Serbia's budget is voted by parliament, and that some financial arrangements are taking place that are actually hiring budgets and in the coming years, that the National Assembly does not know about it and that it does not vote on it. I would say so much about the spirit of parliamentaryism and the desire of the executive authority that this home, therefore, and our entire people, knows what is going on, who, which is why and under what conditions guarantees are given. As far as this loan itself is concerned, one period ends when no part of our country, whether it's a company, a public enterprise or an entity of the state, has been able to obtain one financial credit. There were loans, but they were trade loans. This is the first financial loan Serbia has received in 12 years. By doing so, we show that we are becoming a remunerated and recognizable country in capital markets. Here's the question -- why EPS, why is this loan and is it favourable for our country? The answer to all this is - yes; therefore I will ask you to vote in favour of this bill. First, we're in a situation where you don't need to give a sovereign guaranteeolako. And after the debt cuts -- which already happened at the Paris Club, and we'll try to get in other clubs, such as London's some other bilateral clubs -- we'll still remain a little more in charge of the country. Therefore, we must be extremely careful in giving sovereign guarantees. Until we fully regulate our debt on the outside, the executive's approach is not to give a sovereign guarantee on purely commercial arrangements. So, they're going to be asked every time, and before we get to this home, to pass a possible counter-guarantee or guarantee law, to provide conditions that are significantly better than commercial conditions. In this particular case, that's how it is. And let me give you some of the precision of what's written in this bill. First, the terms of this loan are favourable because it is given on a very long deadline, that is 11 years and 8 months; the first payment takes place on 30 December 2004, in three years and four months. Secondly, as far as interest is concerned, the initial interest is not the interest the state of Serbia could receive on the capital market, without or with a sovereign guarantee. According to some estimates, and with a sovereign guarantee, our country, if it finds possible creditors, could get a loan at an interest rate of 8 to 9%, maybe even 12%. In this case, we have an arrangement that the German Development Bank, which has the highest possible rating to agencies that rank credit risk for various borrowers, ensures that we have the same rating as if we are the German State or as the German Development Bank, which transfers that rating to this loan and gives us the opportunity to get interest as those who have a rating to authorized agencies. In this regard, the German government has decided to additionally make funds to the Bank for the Development of Germany, in order to further reduce the interest. At this point, on this entire 51.1m-euro loan, the percentage of the donation that will go into it is 14%. So on that most favourable interest comes another 14% worth, so effective interest, which will be fixed, in case you vote this bill, which day should be about 4.3% on the annual level. As for the payment deadline, as far as interest is concerned, these are very favourable terms and therefore we suggest this loan. The third thing concerns the integrity of the purpose of the borrower and the very purpose of using this money. I'd like to give you a few precise explanations about what EPS needs that money to use for. I think it's clear to everyone that the role of EPS is central in our economy, in our economy. Thanks to the efforts of EPS employees and the efforts made by the Republic of Serbia's budget, which, as you will see in the 2001 final account, gave about 3.5 billion dinars of short-term loans to the EPS in order to make repairs in time, we have come into a situation that our country literally had no electricity restrictions in this season. It's been a few days, but they're very conveniently compared to other countries in the environment. Look within SRJ Montenegro, look at Macedonia and even Greece, due to unfavourable weather conditions they had almost as many days of power restrictions as we did. It's a really big shift towards what we had during the 2000-2001 heating season. It is the first concrete manifestation that these first efforts have produced fruit. The second thing, it's news that now comes from spears, we see that both Kostolac and Kolubara produce record amounts of coal, much more than it was before and in difficult situations. So that money and that internal effort that we've made, plus the donations that the EPS received since October 2000 and to this day, have allowed the situation in that key segment of our economy to be good. However, neither what the budget can separate, nor the internal resources of the EPS, nor the donations, all of which is not enough so that for a small number of years we can really revitalise the EPS and that we no longer have fractures in the energy system. As a result, the most favourable loans were requested and this loan turned out to be the most favourable credit we could find for that purpose. And to conclude about the purpose of this loan: this loan is strictly used as a means of repair within the EPS. I can say we have two tranches here. Given the urgency that existed, in co-operation with the German Bank for Development, some of these jobs have already begun, and this budget of the Republic of Serbia with a billion and a half dinars is already being financed. Part of this loan will be to repay the short-term loan to the Republic of Serbia's budget. It was used exclusively for the Costolac and Kolubara. The second tranche, which is the same 50%, will be used for three key projects. I'd like to give you some information on that. The first project is the capital remont of B2 block on TE "Nikola Tesla", a force of 600 megawatts. That block itself will produce 10% of electricity for our entire country. He was released in 1985, and capital, i.e. A fundamental remont was to be done in 1992; since then it has been delayed. Thanks to this loan, after 10 years, the EPS will be able to carry out that capital remont and provide 90% of the function of that capital block. The second project is the repair of one bagger (Bager ST 1200) that will raise coal mining capacity from 0.5 million tonnes to three million tonnes per year. It's not the only bogeyman. He was only released in 1968, a fire took place in 1993, and since then he has not been repaired. So that's one of the great equipment we have, which will be trained with this. And the third project is the completion of one A2 delayer RSB 8500, which will also help to increase bed detection by three million cubic metres. So, if you look at the purposes, this loan in no way goes to raise wages in the EPS, or goes to some old debts, which the EPS had towards anyone, but goes directly into equipment, into remont, to train our energy system. As for the control of these funds, I can say that largely, through some ex post controls, there was great confidence that this money was spent on purpose. There will also be additional control over it, not to be through some bloated invoices when there is one supplier, and domestic; and to say, for those who are certainly interested, that this loan is not conditioned by buying goods of German origin. So it's just a conditioned purpose of this loan, but it's not a choice. I can say that for a great deal of this, our capacity will be employed, domestically. Looking at the remont, which was done last year, he hired as many as 300 of our companies and a total of about 40,000 people. This also confirmed the central role of the EPS in our economy; if we continue with this rhythm, not only will we stabilise the EPS itself, so the power supply, but we will also stabilise a very important part of our economy that works primarily as an EPS supplier. Therefore, I just want to repeat, this law may seem specific; but this is one first, for the first time in 12 years, the Government of the Republic of Serbia is addressing this home to request a vote on one guarantee, and so it must always be from now on, so that the nation through you knows what is going on in the domain of giving guarantees to anyone. Secondly, we follow this philosophy, as a highly-indebted country, that sovereign guarantees should not be given for anything that is not particularly good in terms of use, borrowing and financial conditions. There's been trained one control. I'm sure you'll request additional controls to check the dedicated spending of this money. I think all the conditions here are ahead of us, that this law is passed.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18275	Before, by Article 89. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I give my word in order, as the member specify, I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not done so, to apply for a word with the order of the MPs. Do the officials of the committees want a word? Does the MP who singled out his opinion want a word? Yeah. ) There is a word from MP Zoran Novakovic. After that, pursuant to Article 89, the presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, are in line. National MPs Branislav Ivkovic, president of the SPS parliamentary group and MP Vojislav Seselj, president of the SRS group. The National MP who has issued an opinion at the board meeting has the right to speak once for up to five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18276	Dear citizens of Serbia, the Honored Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, we had a Finance Committee before this session, where I gave my opinion for a number of reasons. First, as a member of the Industry Committee, since I don't understand why the proposal for this law, since it is related to the EPS, did not go to the Industry Committee either. I'd say I feel it's, as someone says, made up, because as an Industry Committee, we've been waiting for the Honorable Minister of Mining and Energy for six months to come to the competent resolution board. So, since July, August of the month, and more than six months, we've been waiting for reports from the Ministry of Mining and Energy about all the issues, including this one. That's what I'm going to explain. Mr. Zivica Predojev, chairman of the Committee, has sent a very binding letter to the Ministry of Mining and Energy on our behalf, but we do not have an answer for now. That part of the story I tried to explain to Mr. Djelic. Respecting Mr. Djelic, not because he tells us nice things about the badgers here, but because he's respected by Mr. Russell and Mrs. Simons, who personally told me that they respect him and I appreciate that because they are the top of the IMF. First of all, I would say that there are a lot of MPs in the assembly from Elektroprivreda Serbia, where I come from, and I would ask that as the first EPS man for this speaker, Mr. Radomir Naumov, as president of the EPS, and particularly Mr. Vladan Jovicic, as former director of the Kolubare, who has negotiated these buffers. As for information on record production these days, I welcome it, since it is my portfolio - production, but I must warn Mr. Minister that this is a record production until production is lifted. That means last time I told this speaker my well-intentioned warning that if nothing was done, coal production in March and April would not be at all. Why did I single out my opinion? Because I think this law is retroactive. Thank you to Mr. Minister for acknowledging the speaker, although he did not say this to the Committee, that half of the amount given to us by the German Development Bank, I note, of 25.5m euros, is in fact the budget of the Government of the Republic of Serbia for this year, a due loan from the government last year to the EPS for the repairs, while the second tranche of 25.5m euros is used for the repairs this year. What is behind this EPS task should be determined at a specific hearing. But it's indicative that we still don't have a draft law on mining, or a draft energy law, even if we don't know it, or a concession law. Is this behind the sale of parts of Serbia's Elektroprivreda on the basis of a debt now in charge of Serbia's Elektroprivreda? I'd love to be deceived, but it'd be good if someone could explain it. Let me just say one more sentence, it's for information. Someone should once explain to all of us where 570 million marks of donations have been spent in the past two heating seasons?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18277	The word is made by MP Vladan Jovicic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18278	Dear Mrs. Comic, MPs, distinguished friends from the People's Movement "Resist" and you're unhappy that you don't know where your favorites have disappeared in the past period in Kosovo, the basis for the replica is that I am not the one who negotiated the SRS bagger 1200 and its revitalisation. At the time I was general director of the Kolubare, the largest business complex in Serbia, I participated in the commission's work in front of the Kolubara and the work to which it belongs, here present Mrs Dana Vukovic from the Directorate for Investments and Coal Exploitation, but there are no other people here. The fact is that Kolubara gave a negative view of what was adopted, and it was adopted that the business carrier be the German firm FAM, which, after the collapse of democratic Germany-DDR, was the one that was, in fact, the bearer of the Katena business, the company that manufactures baggers, but delayers, not rotors. There's been something that's not in practice, at least the practice of surface exploitation, designed, that something that "half fish, half girl" goes by. Simply, on the bottom podium of the pager 1200, a solution was given to be the upper building of the buffer 1300; something that did not satisfy the conditions and something that did not give the digging practice anywhere in the world. So he didn't prove his capacity and his useful value. That's what the people of the Colubare are, headed with me, remarked on those who adopted such an offer. Let's see the finals of it all. That's what's clear and it can't be attributed to the former management of "Colubara," since this is what's been done by other jobs. I see there's no need for us to discuss this. I'd like to invite the MPs to vote on this. It's just that it's necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18279	The word is made by MP Radomir Naumov, a replica to the presentation of MP Zoran Novakovic. It's a name reference.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18280	Dear Vice President, since it has become a practice, honourable MPs, that here from the pay phone we address the nation and various other bodies and (Vojislav Seselj, from the site: NGOs) and NGOs, I have come out here only to avoid the impression that I will not go out in replication. I didn't find a basis for the replica in this exit. I've applied for a regular discussion of this bill in principle, so when it's my turn, I'll speak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18281	The word has a folk MP, Zivica Predojev, the basis for the replica, mentioned in the presentation of MP Zoran Novakovic. Based on the replica, you don't think you're well interpreted? Here you are, People's Messenger Zivica Predojev.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18282	Dear Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for the sake of truth, I had to go out and say one thing. The Industry Committee has so far co-operated with the Ministry of Energy, and it could be said that it was generally good. What we asked of them, we won. I don't see why we should call this cooperation in a negative context right now. It is also a fact that a letter has been sent with a very large number of demands towards the Ministry of Energy. The Ministry of Energy responded very professionally, saying that the data cannot be collected in such a short time. They gave themselves a deadline and we didn't give it to them, but they gave it to them and said it was the end of February. I suppose we should welcome the end of February to determine whether it is professional or not, whether he wants to co-operate with the Assembly or not, whether he wants to give the data and, among other things, the ones Mr. Novakovic spoke about for this speaker. That information was also requested by that memo. So, for the sake of truth, we have to say that there is a memo, but there is also a response from the Ministry of Energy. I hope that the co-operation between the Assembly and the Ministry, through this committee, will continue to be good. I expect that all requested data will be delivered to the Committee, and hence to the Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18283	The word has been given by MP Branislav Ivkovic, as president of the parliamentary group. (Branislav Ivkovic, from the scene: "You sure?" ( b) Since the People’s Messenger is asking whether it is safe, as much as everything else is safe. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18284	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Madam Chairman, can't get the impression that the money has already arrived in the country and has been spent. Obviously, there are dilemmas about whether that money has been spent and how. In any case, every citizen of Serbia is pleased when investing in his country, because investment in financial resources should mean production, and thus the growth of standards. As for the public in the work, only Mr. Minister would remind me of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 73: - The National Assembly, writes right here, decidedly, is calling for a republican public loan, and decides on the borrowing of the Republic of Serbia. Thus, this National Assembly is doing exactly what the Constitution says, which was brought in 1990, and drawn. For those who will remember again, what you have done to us these ten years, etc., to know that the financial embargo was absolutely valid and that the Assembly, for the sake of those who gave credit, should not have publicly told them their names and last names, because they would have been accused of our great friends. The governor of the National Bank of Yugoslavia had to guarantee himself. In this regard, however, one question is raised: what is it with the SRJ banking system and what are the great results of Mr. Mladjan Dinkic's work, when one essentially commercial business, where goods from the country of origin are seen as lenders, is not normally done through the banking system. Therefore, it is obvious that the banking system of Serbia and Yugoslavia is not in a state the governor of the National Bank of Yugoslavia is talking about. Perhaps Mr. Minister, which will probably have to do when we discuss the law on the budgetary system, could explain about the public's work why it went to the minister's authority, not at least the prime minister's decisions and consent to signing contractual obligations. When it comes to this contractual obligation, it is interesting to say that the payment begins on 30 December 2004 and it is clear that the interest of the opposition is greater, as the current opposition will probably return those loans. In terms of "Electroprivreda of Serbia", I would just like to say this: it is certainly good that it is investing in the EPS, it is invested in a large system that has really brought about by agriculture and construction, a difficult period of this country. [[Zagor in the O.R.]] I would ask an MP across from me to respect those who discuss, as they keep silent as he speaks. It's customary to keep communicating with Chad. Hey, kid, don't at least turn around while he's talking. So, the EPS really carried out an extremely heavy burden on its back, and I especially want to say that the EPS after NATO aggression was, as we did that part of the job, in a great commitment to restore its capacity before the 1999-2000 heating season. We who have done this and then worked in the Government of the Republic of Serbia know what burden we have carried out, that the destroyed electricity distribution facilities in Belgrade, Nis and Novi Sad are being restored and that this heated season really goes without a single second of restrictions. Therefore, investment in the EPS certainly has the support of all citizens of the country, foreign investments have support. However, the SPS parliamentary group will not support this bill for the following reasons: it is not right that we are now talking about guarantees for a job that has obviously already been done to a good extent. It's already defined the equipment and already one part of the money is at stake. Secondly, we do not have accurate insight into the full terms of the loan, and at least it would be appropriate for us to give the MPs a contract, so that we in general see a contract based on which we guarantee almost 55 - 60m euros. This information that's given here isn't enough, I'll interpret it a little later. Third, who was doing this job on behalf of the EPS, on behalf of whom we guarantee, who was the negotiator with the bank and the supplier of equipment? I think it's the basic order that these MPs here, and there's builders, and lawyers, and doctors, and electric engineers, and economists, and sociologists and various, at least we know who was wearing this job, to see his face, his name and his last name, and to give us further explanations on where this job is at all. Is this job done, it's not done, has it started? Are we waiting for our guarantee to go, who identified the proper equipment? Fourthly, and crucially, if it enters this country, or has already entered or is required to enter such an amount of funds that means a lot, it means about 100 million marks, whether and in what extent domestic operatives are engaged, domestic equipment manufacturers, domestic construction. Who manufactures materials and equipment for the installation of Serbia's power plants, who performs construction works, at which percentage is the presence of domestic production, and in what percentage, financial and physical volume of production, the presence of an ino-producer? For those who do not know, the Law on concessions was passed in 1997, which is a law that can certainly be fixed in certain parts, but it is the best law on concessions in Europe at present, because it was done on the basis of a comparative analysis. The law predicted that those entering concessions must plan as concessionaries according to the 70% concession to engage domestic operatives in concessions, which they are negotiating in this country. With respect to concessionary, it certainly remains an open issue for the citizens of Serbia, as well as for the current government, how to define themselves against those who bought cement factories, because those who bought iron, who bought concrete, who think they bought workers, did not buy natural resources, because the law on concessions that are in force today says that no one can sell any natural resource of this country, nor the laporac used to produce cement. Therefore, this type of privatisation could not possibly cover the basic source of resources, could only go to international bidding, bring concessions to a certain period of time and for certain money. Therefore, the SPS parliamentary group puts a major remark on the whole process because it remains an open dilemma: who in the name of Elektroprivreda Serbia has negotiated on these loans; whether or not this credit is realised or waiting for our guarantee; if it is realised in what extent it is realised; if the equipment that needs to be imported has already been distributed, who has justified this equipment in a technological sense, and whether, in this sense, EPS professional teams have given consent. It remains an open argument that it is our turn to get a contract in general to give a guarantee on that contract. In this regard, the Committee on Legislatives, in the first indent of Article 2, is very interesting - that the real interest rate is determined two days before the payment of the money. It was in the bill, two days before the payoff, so the payoff goes on June 30th and December 30th. It's indisputable that it's a very favourable loan, we consider it a positive investment in our economy, but now it's a question of how much of our own, because the question is how much domestic operation is involved. Now it's interesting that instead of saying "pre" the Legislative Committee writes "first". So two days of first payment of money is determined, which means that the interest rate is cut; instead of fixing earlier, two days before each payment, on the day of the first payment, which is 30 December 2004. Secondly, the payment that has been made here is obviously the principal, and it's obvious that a variable interest variable has been left behind, and it's clear that the relationship to interest rates and interest estimates has remained open. So, the SPS parliamentary group is absolutely for economic production, for the word economy and production to enter the dictionary, not only for this speaker, but for the current leaders in the republican and federal government, to turn to every type of production of the economy. We are extremely positive towards foreign investment, but in this case we put important remarks that our relationship defines: we do not have a complete contract for which we have to give a guarantee; we do not have an answer to whether this contract is already alive or not; whether or not the equipment is defined; we do not have an answer to who was doing this job on behalf of the EPS, whether it had the authority and how he negotiated those jobs. And basically, we don't have the essentials of the scope of domestic operation and equipment production. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18285	The word is made by MP Vojislav Seselj, president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18286	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is due to declare a guarantee of one loan worth 100 million marks. For 100 million marks we've got 3.5 pages of typed text, an explanation that's only pro-form. What can't be seen from this explanation? When the contract was signed, what the contract contains, who signed the contract, whether the EPS could have done these transactions without the loan being raised, and if not, then why today's electricity is 10 times more expensive than it was two years ago. Today the kilowatt is already over five dinars, almost 10 cents, about nine cents. We've had electricity far more expensive than in Western Europe. Where then the money from the power collection goes, if it doesn't go into the remounting facility and expand the production volume of coal as the main raw materials for production. Why this amount of electricity, if available, is loans with a delayed repayment period. Secondly, why Parliament has not received a draft on the necessity of borrowing, with a specification of everything that needs to be obtained for our electricity industry, with the specification of what our companies can produce and what must be imported, because our companies are unable to produce and public competition, bidding, tendering, and that more foreign companies have indeed been selected and those that can deliver the most qualitative equipment under the most favourable conditions are available. We don't have any guarantees. Here, the National Assembly is asked to take over the issue of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia for something that no MP has actually been referred to. Maybe that's necessary, maybe this is a credit arrangement that is concluded under the most favourable conditions, but at least try to convince us that it really is. Try to convince us that the EPS couldn't have done without this loan, try to convince us that this is a loan that is raised under the most favourable conditions on the world market, try to convince us that the equipment that is supplied with the money of this loan will be the best quality and cheapest. No one tried to convince us. This is where Minister Djelic comes out and he only boasts, for 12 years there was no credit for Elektroprivreda, and now Elektroprivreda has been credited. Of course, whoever is uninformed looks nice, but whoever's sent it, who previously read the book of Momčel Cemovic, former Deputy Governor of the NBJ and Finance Minister, whose title is "Why we were in debt", all this is suspicious, and this is how the former communist regime in Tito's time was in debt and how the titoistic regime went bankrupt. No one takes care of the credit arrangements, and everyone boasts about how they got the money. Especially since there is a suspicion here that the money has arrived earlier and that the money has already been spent, at least partially. Where we are assured that this money has been spent rationally, why this elaborate has not arrived in Parliament, why it is hidden from the MPs. In every variant, when a public undertaking that takes on such a credit obligation abroad, the government had to declare itself before. A public enterprise under our law should not have taken this kind of credit abroad without obtaining the government's consent. When the credit arrangement was concluded, when the Government gave the public company EPS that agreement, how long has it been since the conclusion of a credit arrangement to inform the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, why was it urgent for this to be put on the agenda, who was in a hurry? Who's the one who's in a hurry? Is that Elektroprivreda? Is that the government? Are those intermediaries in the conclusion of credit arrangements? I will never forget the October 2000 intention of Miroljub Labus to restore self-government, primarily in public enterprises and social enterprises and to sell EPS for three billion marks. Serbia's electricity industry worth about 60 billion marks. Of course, after public criticism Labus shut up, but his statements remained in the paper, in the papers. As bad as that may seem to you, we will remind you constantly of it. There are no guarantees here, and it is symptomatic that the Minister of Energy did not come before Parliament to explain the need to enter this business. Why is this just explained by the finance minister and in an unskilled way, he boasts, acquired a loan. Let's just say that if those six billion dollars of grant aid had arrived, which they promised in the election campaign, I would understand. Who in the world boasts about taking out a loan? The credit must be returned. The interest here is real, there's no write-off here. Where's the guarantee that the money will be spent rationally? There are no guarantees. Why didn't the Energy Minister come to convince us that without this loan, it couldn't have happened? Where's the Minister of Energy? Does he even know about the conclusion of this credit arrangement? Did he participate in the assembly? Did he participate in the negotiations? Has he been given a report on the course of the negotiations? No one knows anything about it. It doesn't matter. We were brought before the final act. Who in this country has been brought before the final act? Who's gonna pay this back? The new government in 2004, when Djelic is, if he doesn't move to France, when DOS's are in prisons, this main bar, and who's gonna bring this back? You know, this business bank needs to be made aware of, to the German Credit Business Bank, if crime is found in the conclusion of this loan agreement, then the guarantee is lost, and then those involved in crime will be prosecuted, and the consequences of our country will argue with Germany, probably in front of some international arbitration, probably in front of international courts that are in charge of ruling in this case. Who took a commission from this loan? You know, the biggest problem with all the big foreign banks is today where to safely place the capital. The whole of Europe is in a crisis today. Today, the most difficult place in Europe is to place capital. The biggest success of a foreign bank is to approve a loan, and it is the obligation of one who raises the credit to buy all the goods and to spend money in that country where credit is taken. We need to extract a percentage here, as far as German equipment, as so far as German plants, German products have participated in the remonting of our power plants. As far as I know, other companies have been showing up in those remonts so far, because they were the most favourable. These were primarily Russian companies, Belarusian companies, there were Czech firms, etc. How come now suddenly the equipment that's never been used before? What's the difference in price? Who told us that? Who introduced us to that? Who wrote that in the lab? Who knows anything about saying that? Why doesn't the Minister of Energy explain it? That's the essential question. When was this contract arrangement concluded? Is it made or isn't it? We're hearing information that part of the money's been here a long time. Why doesn't someone let us know? If an arrangement has already been made, if more than half the money has come, why would they retroactively give me a guarantee? So let's give the guarantee, if that's rational, just for that part of the money that hasn't arrived yet. That would be rational. Why guarantee something that's gone anyway? Why retroactive guarantees? This is Labus' technology, so he retroactively gave... (President: 10 minutes and 30 seconds. I'm moving on. )......................................................................................................... The guarantees for the long-term commitments of the former communist period, following the interruption of the continuity of the SRJ, the denial of continuity. Without the negotiations on the succession, he took over guarantees for all earlier debts, and then boasted that he received a discount, as a third was written off at the Paris Club. It's easy for them to write off that third when they get a guarantee for two-thirds of the dubiosis. Now someone tells you that you owe him a thousand marks, and you don't eat onion, you don't smell onion, you don't know what to do with it. Then he tells you, come on, I'll forgive you 300, give me 700 and you give me 700 marks for a commitment you didn't even know existed. It's kind of like that with our negotiators, with their agreements, with their credit arrangements. What does this law contain? It contains only a provision to take over the guarantee, that the guarantee will run and when the loan will start to be paid. Who in the world can take over a guarantee of something they don't even know about? You can vote because you're a voting machine. Smart, rational people shouldn't vote until they know what it is. Every voice binds, legally, politically and morally. Give a voice for a cat in a sack, who's ready to do it? In any case, it should be kept in mind if this guarantee goes so lightly that we'll probably be filled with similar guarantees. Let's see here if a more favourable loan could be found on the global financial market. If the investment crisis is now, if banks have extra money, if all of the Western European states threatens the lack of investment, if it is a crisis of this kind, that someone would explain to us that a more favourable credit arrangement could not be found, that some bank would not give under more favourable conditions, that some bank would not give the money that would be used in our country to buy equipment, to finance production. How many of our domestic companies are going to be out of a job because all the equipment worth 100 million marks will be bought in Germany? Let's see if the Minister in charge has told us here, for example, the Minister of Industry, to see who's going to be denied. It's easy to close factories, you've reported it, but it's hard to find work for factories. You know, Jacques Chirac came to Belgrade, you mean because he loves us, not because he loves us, but that he's stretching the interests of Lafarg's company about buying cement in Beocino. That's his main reason for coming. Laugh, laugh, you sold our cements for at least a third cheaper than their sales contracted before, at least a third. You and the tender get a third less price than you did before without a tender. It's not true, Minister Djelic, and there was a tender before and two companies competed, English BTC and Lafarz, even their lobbyes formed here on this issue, so they couldn't get a job that easily. You're transparent, you're a moment - a commission in my pocket and you can take whatever you want, just a good commission and that's the essence of your economic policy. Someone's got a commission here. Who? That the German bank gets a very good credit arrangement, to place its capital, with interest being fully understood in the usual financial capital market. So it's no privilege to get such a loan, especially with the guarantee of the state. It's no privilege at all. Besides, to get a job for German companies of 100 million marks, it's a double success. He places his money, secures interest, secures the principal and still finds a job for his companies. You and the government can laugh for all you want, it's all funny to you and so on, but why don't you explain it, see what's behind that credit arrangement, see what's behind it, so we don't grab the head of those who take your chair in the government of Serbia for a month. What was done in Tito's time, you repeat. You are a titoist on various issues, but this time it won't take as long as Tito's time. This time, there will be bills for each move much earlier, for every action. You've destroyed the domestic banks, with an explanation that's how you'll cut the foreign creditors' hair. The four largest Serbian banks have been liquidated. Why don't you take a haircut here, Minister Djelic? Djelic and Dinkic were the main advocates of abolishing major domestic banks. Why don't you go here and cut some strangers' hair? You'd cut strangers and leave them without capital and interest only in those jobs where you didn't take your own commission. Where you make commissions, where you take those commissions by making contracts, you give the strongest state guarantees. Where is the principle of economic policy? What's the matter? What are you getting into my word for, Djelic? Listen to this and answer all this later, don't run...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18287	I ask the MP not to violate the Rules of Procedure and not to discuss... (Vojislav Seselj: I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure when he comes into my word. )......................................................................................................... with a minister or with MPs in the Serbian Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18288	You didn't ask the minister not to enter the word, and I'm taking the dialogue right away. It's a dialogue between the government and the opposition. The opposition knows everything and is questioning the government. The government just shuts up and moans what the opposition has in the first place.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18289	The dialogue is inadmissible under the Serbian Parliament's Rules of Procedure... (Vojislav Seselj: Yes, but then warn the minister not to start that dialogue. )......................................................................................................... and your similar parliamentary behaviour.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18290	And don't waste my time.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18291	In my picture of parliamentary behavior, you have no right to such behavior.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18292	What's the summary of all this? The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia must not take easy commitments for the Republic of Serbia without a detailed explanation by the obligor. Maybe this is a good deal. You have to convince us he's good. Therefore, I propose that this case be returned to the government of the Republic of Serbia in advance, that the Government offer the Parliament a complete elaborate that will contain - the state of the electricity sector; why such electricity prices are; why electricity prices in Serbia are the largest in Europe; what are the effects of such an enormous increase in prices for repairing production plants, for the remonting of electricity capacities. Then, in particular, as regards the credit arrangement itself: was there any other offer for a similar loan in a similar amount; what reasons were defined by the signatories of the credit arrangement to opt for this arrangement with this bank; was it possible to obtain and spend money in our country or was it impossible to buy all the goods in the creditor country? Or -- maybe there's a part in the money. Let's see what part of it is, see what money is available here? Is that equipment the best quality and cheapest? Were there any alternatives? If there were no alternative options, why weren't they wanted? Who made sure there were really no alternatives? These are all essential questions. Of course, these questions are very difficult for DOS. We'd like to vote without them thinking about anything. And our intention is not to force you to think. It is our intention to convince the entire Serbian government that you, in the vast majority, do not think about anything, and that several people who are in charge of financial affairs rob people and the state and flee, as Djelic has fled from Russia in time, where he was adviser to Russia's greatest criminal Anatoly Chubais and here boasts (the chairman-in-Office - I ask the MP to keep an eye on the allegations he makes after the assembly speaker)... how he was his advisor.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18293	This is a really serious warning. The way the speech is conceived is the right of the MPs, of course, but I ask the MPs to take care of the claim made by the assembly speaker, because that is what the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly obliges us to do. The word is from MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18294	Mrs. Komic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is a very tragic society in which parliament is not the place of meeting facts and arguments and therefore several very important institutions in truth and facts. It is not true that Serbia has the most expensive electricity in Europe. In Serbia, the average price of kilowatt-hour is 2 cents, in Montenegro 3.7 and the average European price is between 5 and 6. So, the first radical and very serious untruth to fully represent the character of one who criticises this kind of our congregation work, our initiative and the activities of the Republic Government. As MPs, we need to talk about important issues when it comes to this item of the agenda, which is - is this loan needed by the "Electro-Ecores of Serbia"? Who are the people and who are the organisations involved in the development of the project and the documentation that preceded this agenda point, and finally - in what state is the "Electroprivreda of Serbia" and this society, so that we can assess whether it is able to respond to this kind of obligation that we as the Assembly should confirm. In the past ten years, this country and the people who ran it have built it and left us 35 times as much debt as what we are thinking about today, based on the arrangements and guarantees given by the business banks that have thus failed. According to China and the Russian Federation, we're in charge of a billion dollars. So 20 times more than this loan we're talking about today. In all, in the past ten years, the Republic of Serbia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia have taken over, quietly and beyond each procedure and regulations, 55 times as much of what we are talking about today, in conditions in which these loans are certainly not spent in the way they are formally explained. Serbia's electricity industry, based on the facts we have, must spend at least 500 million marks annually on its remonts. In the past ten years, the Elektroprivreda of Serbia has spent 500 million marks, but every Socialist and every radical is full of EPS mouths, full of state care, and full of victim's mouth. None of the socialists and no radicals sitting in the republic's parliament today are the ones who have suffered and are not the ones who can present themselves to the victims. As a result, we can say here today that the Republic Government, through the Resorship Ministry and the Public Enterprise "Electroprivred of Serbia", has made a very serious approach to this business. Three directives that do not have any political concept were engaged in the realisation of this job: the Investment Directorate, the Coal Production Directorate and the Electricity Production Directorate. Today, we can discuss whether they have done their job in a good way. I am sure that they have done it in quality, given that I have not heard from anyone involved in this work - and among other things, from those who have previously spoken here and who have direct ties to this work, such as the former Director of the Colubare, who is a MP, who said that this should be supported because it is quite clear that this is a serious need of our society -- not one fact, except for those in themselves who have come out of the need to politically destroy every healthy initiative in this society so that Serbia will remain forever what it was for the past ten years: a country where mud to its knees and a country in which unwritten powers can work with our fates all that they have done for the past ten years. If you forget what the price is, turn on the TV screens, switch on some of the state channels, and you'll see what's going on right now in the city that's 3,000 kilometers away. If you've forgotten what the price is, that price is real and it's very clear, at any moment visible. I think that's why we have a responsible job ahead of us, first of all, because this congregation is becoming an address where serious business is being held accountable. It is true that cement was sold at a lower price than what our predecessors in power pointed out, but that price is lower only for that money that went into their pockets; that's what they have to explain here today and that's what we want to point to; because only the debate in the Federal Assembly has shown that Vojislav Seselj is not fighting for four banks and unemployed in banks, but for his money that they stayed there; and how that money there was created in the time in which each other disappeared. Let those facts be discussed if someone wants to have such a discussion. To accuse the least controversial people in the Republic government, not us politicians, but experts who can find their professional engagement anywhere in the world, that they are without character, that they are unprofessional, and in doing so as to be an expert only for lying and insinuating, is something this Parliament must condemn. But not by calling the Rules of Procedure, not by sanctions, but by demonstrating common sense. I think it's very important to us that as the Assembly, we had the strength to put this point of the agenda into action, which we can say that the EPS is in a catastrophic state, that its debts are enormous, that this state cannot be launched without a stable EPS, that people working in the EPS deserve our attention, because they are in exceptional circumstances. I don't mean just last winter, I mean, say, the time of the bombing when they actually seemed impossible, and they deserve that kind of attention, but they don't deserve that kind of political hack they're facing through everything that's being talked about here today. So the EPS needs to get a hundred million marks. It's only one-fifth of a year's investment to make EPS function normally. The republican government has started through resolute ministries of contacts, seeking the most favourable investment, and this is the most favourable investment of capital that can be found at this time in Europe and the world. Those who claim otherwise, let them say the interest rates under which we were in debt in Russia, China, at which interest rates did our business banks in the amount of 3.5 billion marks fall? This is true and this is something that cannot be broken by arguments, but can be humiliated by a political mockery. That's why I'm asking the MPs not to agree to anything like that. I think we're talking about facts, and I'm quite sure, after all, that this loan will pass, that the funds will be spent properly, that all of our internal economic potentials that have the strength to do this will be included, because no one in the opposite way has thought about it. I think it is very clear from these first words and everything that has been said so far that the opposition's interest is to bring down Serbia, because at all times they insist on their own political views, which cannot be classified, say, in the EPS, in privatisation, in the Labour Act, because these are topics that have nothing to do with daily politics. There is electricity in socialist society, both in communist and dictatorship, and in capitalism. In Serbia, it was not because it was run by incompetent people; today it is much less important for us whether it is about Socialists, radicals or Democrats, but they must come to power capable; they have come to power, who are now trying to run Serbia from the dead, where it has stood for 10 years and failed together with us. That's why, based on the facts, we have to take away the rights of those who appear here today at the pay phone. Let them say what interest rates were when loans were taken at 3.5 billion marks and a billion dollars; let them say what interest rates were when they were in debt as individuals in front of banks and raised loans from primary emissions; let them say that hundreds of thousands of marks appeared in their accounts, in a time when our citizens did not have a single pfenig in their wallet; and I will always be ready to face them with arguments, defending the DOS parliamentary group and common sense in our society. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18295	Do any of the presidents of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, we move on to the debate of the declared MPs, therefore, by applying for a word in principle debate. I remind you that the DOS parliamentary group has two hours and 30 minutes, the Democratic Party of Serbia parliamentary group 54 minutes, the SPS parliamentary group 44 minutes, the Serbian Radical Party 28, the Serbian Unity Party 17 minutes, the DOS parliamentary group - New Serbia has 10 minutes, the DOS parliamentary group - the League of Social Democrats Vojvodina - the League of Shumadija 8 minutes, the DOS parliamentary group - the Vojvodina and Sandzak Democratic Party 7 minutes and the DOS parliamentary group - the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians 7 minutes. The first of the people's MPs reported for debate is in principle the MP Radomir Naumov.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18296	Dear Members of Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, Mr Minister, if it were to refuse all of this so far, which has some political impediments and demagogue remarks, it is clear that this is one beneficial loan, not for the EPS, but for our entire economy and society. I think the Democratic Party of Serbia, as far as it is concerned, will vote in favour of giving guarantees on this loan. EPS, as you've heard, although perhaps at these moments its significance is clouded through various little so-called. media and other affairs, one of the most important technical and technological systems in us. And the speakers have so far pointed out, and the fact is that in the past period, especially in the last ten years, EPS has had the greatest burden on its back, beside agriculture. Until 15 years ago, we were fully equal to European electricity systems in a technical and technological way. We were part of the European electricity system. In the EPS, which numbers 23 public enterprises, people who carried high awareness of their professional work and their social benefits were constantly working. In the last 10 years, unfortunately, investments in EPS have been minimal or absent. We have become an island in Europe; excluded, we have indeed suffered and tortured. May of the month last year, the remounts started again in that entire system. So, the new management, the new government in general, took the EPS into its own hands only sometime since April of last year, when in the last 7-8 months, remonts were made, as we've already heard here, which haven't been done in the past 10 years. The result is very visible. In the last few decades, it hasn't been stronger in winter than this one. We consumers didn't feel it as a problem in the supply of electricity. This is, of course, the result of a very well done preparation for the winter season, where, despite the entirely unfavourable structure of electricity consumption, this and this system managed to cover 90% of the population's needs in the need for electricity, of course, in the fruit with the necessary imports that were about 10%. Therefore, preparations are being made for the remont at the beginning of each year. Remont has already become an extremely harsh word, in fact, it is the overall preparation of the system for the most difficult period that the system is expecting in us, which is winter. That's when the plans are made. The plans were made for this year. These are very strict plans, which are adopted on the board of directors, which are controlled every month, to control the degree of fulfillment of these plans. The electricity balance for this year has also been introduced, and the basics of the business plan for the next four years have been established, so in this framework we come to a safe conclusion that we lack large funds. The electricity industry inherited one cumulative loss only in a business of over 150 billion dinars, not to mention loans and others, where it may even go to a billion dollars. Therefore, when a loan appears and a certain political interference is removed from the initiative and access to the realisation of the loan, it is then necessary to fulfil the basic role of the EPS. Of course, the Management Board considered the matter of the loan in the EPS as early as October and decided on 18 October to conclude such a loan. That's not what he did alone, that's what he was doing in the field with the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Mining and Energy, and that's what the government had to confirm. So it's a job that's been done on the basis of the elaborates, based on an examination of needs. That's what they were doing, as we heard, three directorates. There is now a team that monitors the implementation of the preparation and the whole work on the project. Of course, Elektroprivreda, as a system that has pushed so far over it, does not do it amateurally, but does it highly professionally. I don't think MPs should doubt for a moment that these funds will not be used for what they are intended for. What do you say next? I don't think we have much choice here. If that's still a good means, then a team before we all vote to accept the guarantee for this loan.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18297	Instead of MP Milos Lukic, the word has been made by MP Dragan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18298	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Presidency, the Soviet Union thinks Serbia can't start without a loan, but as this loan should be obtained, we don't think it's the right way to go from the real country. If we remind ourselves that the German auction that took part in NATO's 1999 aggression was a pact, then we expected Germany to offer us a loan without interest. However, they do not offer us this loan without interest, but they may have given us that our statesmen and our representatives asked Germany for it because it is known that in 1999 the energy system was destroyed and that a lot of money was spent so that the energy system could return to function. So, we in the Soviet Union couldn't see or hear that was what our government was looking for. We of the Soviet Union fear that this may be the beginning of collective guilt, that no one will admit to us what was destroyed during the 1999 trial at the Hague tribunal. Until anyone mentions war damage, we are in a hurry to deliver as soon as possible the other Serbs who are on the list as suspects, and that the other, third and fourth parties, those who participated and caused everything that happened to us, are not mentioned. The SSJ, too, resents Vlad and Minister Djelic for not all of their visits to foreign countries used to make ino-contracts, to buy our products, those products we produce, and Serbia and Yugoslavia is a small market and we cannot place our products in Serbia, but to export them to a country. I think a very small number of contracts have been made, and that's why we in the Soviet Union are making one big comment to the Serbian government. When a loan is taken, I guess the bank needs to be a guarantee of that loan. There's no difference between the former and the current government, ladies and gentlemen. The DOS said in an election campaign that the former government owed this country too much. Here, they are now continuing to do so and that Serbia, or the Assembly, votes so that this loan could come to the country. We don't mind that, but they say that this is one progress, that this is transparent, etc. Well, it is known that each government has a majority in parliament and that the government does not have to ask parliament for consent, and even if it requires parliamentary consent, the outcome of the vote is known, parliament is known to adopt the government's proposal. We believe that perhaps Mr Dinkic and the People's Bank of Yugoslavia were supposed to guarantee this loan, not to deal with the closure of banks. For this work, however, he is now in a hurry to fix that unit on either two or three, just from those who had a major impact on his assessment and his work; and I think Germany had the greatest impact and on their proposal Mr Dinkic got for his work, as governor of the NBJ, the unit. Whoever gets the unit and repeats the class has nothing left to look for in that function. I would also ask Mr Djelic to promise us if agriculture in Serbia can expect some credit. As the energy system has been destroyed, so has the individual agricultural producer, as has all those dealing with agriculture in Serbia and Yugoslavia. Without a loan, agriculture can't stand on healthy feet. Whoever has to take care of it, the Minister of Agriculture, he's gone: he goes hunting on Sunday, after which he rests for two or three days, because he's not in physical condition; we haven't seen him here in the Assembly; we only saw him when he was an omnibus law, and that's what I said last time. It is as if there are no agricultural producers in Vojvodina, as if the problem exists only within Serbia. So, I'm asking Mr. Minister, on behalf of the agricultural producers, since I've received a large number of letters, I would ask him to promise after my presentation whether there will be a loan for farmers this year, because we're already late: the spring set has begun, farmers are not in a position to finance the re-promatter, and it is known that the price of their product does not follow the rise in the price of re-romitions. A peasant should invest his resources and wait six or seven months to pick up what he gave. If you charge market interest, each farmer is lost. Furthermore, the SSJ will not support this proposal for one more reason -- not because we do not need credit and that Elektroprivreds do not need credit, but because the return begins in 2004. All polls in Serbia say the SS will have power in 2004. We're afraid this loan will be used on purpose and, when we get to power, we'll have to sell something later to get that loan back. For this reason, the Soviet Union will not vote for this loan guarantee, proposed by the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18299	National MP Dragan Markovic used the right of the Rules of Procedure under Article 89 to address the Assembly as the president of the parliamentary group, so because we have already opened the debate in principle, the word will be given by MP Milos Lukic, but as it is under Article 91. The People's Messenger Stanko Kovacevic has the word, followed by Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18300	The Honorable Presidency, colleagues and fellow MPs, there is a belief in the people that "knowledge is typical ignorant". I think we will soon have to discuss the need to pass a law that will prohibit the know-it-alls, ignorants and frustrated types from holding such a burden on this speaker, as we have had the opportunity to listen to from individual MPs. All 20 minutes of this circulation have been reduced to misrepresentation, to thieving, to carrying out the truths, to show that this authority in Serbia and this bill wants the state of Serbia and the people of Serbia to bring even greater hardships than those who have criticised us for this speaker, and they have participated in one of the most popular governments in Serbia's history, which has robbed their own people, who have destroyed their own economy, which has destroyed any relationship with the world. And when we have to listen to these traits from such people, then we ask the question of the need to find ways that such stories for this speaker can't be told, because they represent the most common torment and shame both of this Parliament and of this people, in whose name is spoken here. Another MP, much more normal, comes out for this speaker and points out that no particular information is seen from the proposal for this law, from which it will be learned in this Parliament for which purposes this means will be used. It could even be commended to the Serbian government for succeeding in the bill's proposal, and for what preceded it, to provide the means to create conditions for the country's economy to start its own development once, based on the initial funds and capital that is impossible to find in our country. It is this bill that proves that the Government of the Republic of Serbia fulfils the promises made by its programme to the citizens of this country, that it will do everything and create conditions for such economic development, which will be based on reality, real resources and real and responsible resources. If every MP is well-intentioned, he will accept the explanation that we have heard here from Minister Djelic, that this is a loan that will be used for the very necessary and realistic purposes, to provide the conditions for us citizens not to experience in the coming years what we experienced in the winters. Exactly, that the power system of this loan is able to make sure that such surprises don't come. One MP tells us that maybe in March or April, black days will come for the Colubary. He forgot that this is precisely the means and the remonts, which are designed for the Colubar right, should create the prerequisites that these workers on the co-ops of the Colubar mines can effectively carry out their tasks. The MP and head of the SPS parliamentary group expressed great praise in their presentation on this bill and on the activities of the government of the Republic of Serbia. Just when we expected him to say, finally the SPS parliamentary group will support this law, because it is extremely useful for the citizens of Serbia and this country, it rejects it for bizarre reasons, and they are, in fact, not a loan agreement, we do not know whether domestic labour and domestic equipment will be engaged to implement this law; as if it were a matter of members of this Parliament, whether and what technology it will be done with a remont; as if it were a matter of members of this Parliament, under which conditions these jobs will be carried out. I guess the EPS in this country is designated for the realisation of these jobs. Professionals will do it. It will not be done by ignorants and know-it-alls with the title of doctor science, who have nothing to do with it. No, it's the experts from the EPS, with the control of the competent ministry, and with the control of our Industry Committee, with the control of our Finance Committee, with the control of this entire Parliament. Why any positive efforts by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the DOS in this House, to create conditions for the country's progress, must suffer such arrests for this speaker. Let's do something to finally speak the normal language here. There is no dispute that this law, proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, should be mutually supported by all members of this parliament, not just members of the DOS parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18301	The basis for the replica, MP Tomislav Nikolic? (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: He misread the SRS parliamentary group. ) National MP Stanko Kovacevic mentioned the head of the SPS parliamentary group and no other party, you have no basis for replication. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic, and then a national envoy, Vladan Jovicic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18302	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have had the opportunity to see that a new speech was established at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and at the chairman Gordana Komic. It will not, as an SRS MP, bother me to present in a few sentences the position of Serbian radicals, which is the only possible and only right, which is that we will not vote against such an arrangement, which a folk proverb would say, that the Republic of Serbia, and the EPS together, have taken "a cat in a sack". Since we don't have an elaborate on a contract concluded with a foreign creditor, with a German bank, and these are no real sources, it's a loan that will have to, among other things, be paid by all citizens and all taxpayers to repay. There's nothing left for us but to ask ourselves what's behind this, what are the motives of those who've made this "credit arrangement" that ultimately benefits from all this. You gave us a basis for open suspicion, with all that I'm going to make in the next few minutes, because no argument from the Minister so-called. The expert did not contribute to telling us what kind of contract it was and that maybe there was no mortgage on the EPS. We don't really know, and that's by who knows which time to tell us that we don't need any funding from the budget to implement this law. Then it turns out that the price of electricity is collected once and for the second time, so for the third time and so on; you are systematically destroying the EPS with your concept of economic policy and all the economy in our country and the most damages of all are the citizens of Serbia themselves, the same ones you deceived in 2000, in that global scam that six billion dollars of grants will arrive in our country. Why, then, loans of nearly six million marks a year, or 180 million dinars; where that grant aid that was supposed to come to your power, after 12 years of your systematic preparation by your Western mentors; those who are now giving you these loans, which are neither a gift nor any help to the EPS; they will simply have to return to normal and applicable interest, and there is no discount, no privilege. One question arises, which would be asked by any citizen of Serbia to have the opportunity to come to the National Assembly to address the Minister and representatives of the government: what about our five billion dollars that the villains have captured us and which we cannot use? What logic does it make that they help us by giving us a loan like this? Only by twisting those five billion dollars can they profit multiplely and thus create enormously profitable means for themselves and their economy, while on the other hand they destroy ours. You should also tell us, and that is not what the minister told us in his insolent and brief address to the MPs, what has already come from this sum, who is using it; you need to tell us what further consequences will be due to the conditionality of importing parts and equipment from a foreign lender. It's the same situation as getting Pejo for the M.O.P. You have rejected every option and every arrangement with the Kragujevic flag; it is a theme, such contracts by the Government of the Republic of Serbia to the harm and citizens above all and our economy; and then for the remont and for the purchase of parts, the Ministry will have to suffer in the future all the dictatorships that come from Pezho. Are these parts and these equipment compatible with ours and why every minister, and particularly Minister Djelic, is constantly looking back at people's MPs for a period of ten years ago. First of all, Mr. Djelic, we have heard of you by evil before, by writing the world press (and this should not be a reason for warning by the chairman) from where you, as a self-called expert, are all banished, where you are forbidden entry. We've heard of you and seen what you've been able to do, and especially last year when here, along with your DOS majority, you voted on a package of enormous tax laws. We've seen everything you've been able to do through your budget projections. Now, we need someone to explain to us, if you are such an expert, why did you just speak to us earlier about this contract that is more than conspiracies, when you know that all the experts in the EPS are now working on ISO 9001, and in that euro sense, so speak to the MPs too. On the other hand, you need to tell us what all the lobbies are, especially from the Democratic Party, which intend to fire a huge number of EPS employees, as is the case with secret lists in the Kragujevac Electroschumadium, where 250 employees are listed.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18303	I ask all MPs to remind themselves of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure on Interrelation with Respect, with all that is colourful, talented assembly of speech, with the right to comment on the speaker's expression and the qualification of such speech as a new one, I have no objection, it is a position, but it is a matter of the ability of the MP and of the People's Parliament to express its position without the speech of intolerance and respect. Address is to all MPs, especially under Article 220(1). - to the People's Messenger, to the People's MPs - so I will address you to remind you of your rights, obligations and duties in respect of the Rules of Procedure You have no basis for replication. [[Natasa Jovanovic from the site looks for a replica.]] The People's MP Vladan Jovicic has the word, followed by MP Dragan Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18304	Dear Mrs Comic, honourable MPs, distinguished ministers, representatives of the EPS who are here, I have already said in the previous replica, here are representatives of the investment, Dana Vukovic, in front of the Elektroprivreda of Serbia, and all that has been said for this speaker as an unknown of the loan happening to KFV Bank to EPS, is particularly looking forward to all of us in the DSS because we are finally coming to the field this party has been talking about for seven months now. So we have a retroactive story for already part of the loan that was used to maintain the remont; we have a part that still needs to come as a means of money; of course there were doubts about whether it should be from Germany or any other bank, or whether it's a kind of equipment that's going to be used. But what we're looking forward to at the DSS is finally seeing what we're saying, that we need system laws, reformist laws, and then we're just talking about what we need to do next, and we can't pass the laws retroactively. We are simply forced to seek credit for a simple reason, visible on the basis of part of the EPS Kolubara, which I know extremely well, which is the whole, biggest, commercial system: 23 public enterprises in the EPS are equipped with equipment that is 98% amortised. It is impossible for such equipment to produce what is needed for our country. How he managed to do the leadership, which was replaced by the second session of AVNOJ, at a certain session of the EPS Management Board in Kolubara, is something to be said today. So, then produce 25 million tonnes of coal, and we hear that the 2002 energy balance for Kolubara amounted to 23.5 million, was not enough for the simple reason that what happened to Rada Marinkov, Dragan Marsican, Vladan Jovicic, Dr Jagodic and all those belonging to the Democratic Party of Serbia had to be allegedly introduced into the reformist direction. On the contrary, we are reformers, we are those who say that fundamental reformist laws must first be passed, or at least to set the priority of a group of those laws that are most necessary for our society to move forward. Exactly what is happening now, it says that we were right back seven months of talking, and even sacrificing ourselves, that we did not mind those armchairs, but rather what Serbia is and Serbia's prosperity. So, we talked, so behind that we pulled our people out of the Serbian government, and then on and on and on. We will continue to speak and demand, regardless of the attacks and what, unfortunately, in what has won the majority of DOS, mainly has turned against the DSS. So, when we get back specifically on the subject, we can see that it's part of the funds, the most necessary EPS. And why EPS? Because the EPS in 2001, through cycle repairs and through two loans, practically gave the Serbian government the amount of two billion dinars for remonts to the EPS, although it was the founder of the EPS, and in fact the economy in Serbia that was definitely lagging behind, and it is known that it was not even 40% used. The doubt that a loan will not be returned, that it will not be able to fertilize itself and continue to vaporize in the deadlines as it is foreseen here, and I don't know if everyone has material, what all the first tranche applies to, and when all the deadlines for returning the loan are one simple fact. In just a year's time, since I managed the largest commercial complex in Serbia, it was that 10,700,000 dinars were saved through various visions through increased cost control, purchase and control of incorrect supplies. By rationalization, means comprehensive control and reduced oil consumption for machinery, gas for machinery, then services, maintenance of so-called third parties, savings of 20.945,000 dinars were made and total, not to list all items, there are 11, for a year savings of 128,695,000 dinars were made. That's about two million euros over it. On the other hand, dealing with export and co-operation affairs, our country has opened up, let's not forget, to the world of the moment that what happened on October 5th. Colubara herself made $2,850,000 in export jobs. So, the fact is that because of certain political views, Kolubara's leadership had to pay with its head, the whole team was removed, the whole team was removed from one simple reason why Kolubara worked with 97.4% of the capacity, unlike the others in the EPS itself where it worked below 70%; and the whole team was removed from what I called "instructive and incompetent people" doing what they did, is that for a period of 14 December, when something happened in the largest economic complex in Serbia, they formed deposits on power plants; the fact is that they are now close to what we left behind, but during that time 520,000 tons of mules were spent in Obrenovac, which is primarily ecological, and behind it is a material problem; whether it will now be seen in the presentation of Mr. Djelic's budget, I don't know that it will, but it't be done. The fact is, the Coluber made the production while the Coluber was run by people who had worked for over 15 years in it. What's happening there now, it's known by the reports, and globally I said that it's clear what's costing us all here later. After all, the people in Serbia know that while a team led part of Serbia's Elektroprivreda that there was electricity, there were restrictions behind it, and we had promises from the Ministry of Energy and Mining that we should wear long pants, undercoats and that it was not so bad to sleep in a cold room. So we have to be responsible for what we're doing. We have to make arguments. I've already said the basic argument: 98% of the amortised equipment at the Colubary requires immediate intervention. Believe me, it's just that the entire amount of credit that the Colubari would not be enough. Of course, we are a poor country, a disaster ruined in the earlier period, which is clear to everyone and we need to step by step to solve these problems. Of course, in all respects of any credit, it is clear that there is no recovery without side help. We all know that. So, aside from what Minister Djelic has now made nice, it is necessary for the first time in so many years to discuss finances publicly. If so, then this assembly must take responsibility, perhaps through its expert committees, say through the Industry Committee, to monitor the realization of all this. So that's the commitment we're taking, because I hope we vote this and I've already said this is very necessary. On the other hand, I personally expect, like everyone here, that there will be no other papers, that we will probably be familiar with much larger investments, much higher taxes that go from the Elektroprivreda of Serbia; let's say that the electricity has to be imported before signing the contract is imports of $45m. So that's what we have to have to have in order to have a complete picture, so that everything is completely transparent, and then it's certainly not going to come up -- very lucrative jobs with electricity imports, very lucrative this, very lucratively, or I'm not going to be threatened with financial or any police discussing this when I've been and why I've been replaced. There have already been three in "Colubary" and nothing abnormal has been found, nothing that is outside the law, although I repeat, has been saved as much as has been saved and produced as has been produced. Thus, a total of up to fivem euros is possible to make in the "Colubara" through all parts of the "Colubara" and "Colubara" has nine independent systems and nine of its primary units. This is what is the advantage of what is ahead of us, and before us is a credit which, let me remind you, is not a problem perhaps in the Law on concessions, how much more a problem in the mining law, which is necessary to bring and how much I know it is, as it is necessary to pass the energy law and how much I know it and it is in the design phase. So, we need to pass these priority laws and define all these relationships, so that we don't come into a situation of doubt, of a situation of review and, ultimately, get to know the public about it. So, what is going on, the credit that is needed in front of us is to be able to move forward, and there is a basis that without any problem will be returned to the deadlines as planned, especially given the grace period of four years, and if we all roll up our sleeves in that time, if we all do, and if the strikes are not being staged, as they were in Kolubara for political reasons; because I was deeply convinced that after 5 October, which I have fought for many years, there will be no political state, there will be no one who is unfortunately today; that it will simply be a measured professional and quality work, and from that work all the basis for returning not only this, but also all other credits. So, don't forget, my dear colleagues, that through the Elektroprivreda of Serbia and through the repairs of Serbia's Elektroprivreda, more than 70% of other economic operators are involved in the country. Is it too heavy, if it's an easy metal industry, food, textiles, so it's all started. Don't look at the EPS as something that's a doll we're going to wear now, make-up. Simply, the Elektroprivreda of Serbia, and about what the European Union regulation calls us on, as said by a previous speaker from the Democratic Party of Serbia, Radomir Naumov, that we must adapt to the European Convention, that we cannot be alone as an island, without these links and without these grounds. Of course, we need to liberalise the electricity market, of course we need to reorganise the electro-prived industry itself, as well as certain public enterprises in Elektroprivreda; of course it must be gradual and it must be done in a very sensitive and flexible way, both through the social map and through all our employees, not only in Serbia's Elektroprivred, but also outside of it. So let's not call in the possibility of getting fired. Let's not invite ourselves to any sales. Let us call for work, let us call for what will bring us all together out of what we inherited, and we have inherited that the high voltage network does not suit the situation that it is and therefore we are isolated from the European Union. Also a low-voltage network; there have often been havarian exclusions and this is attributed to the alleged inability of people in the EPS, but simply the system is. Of course, through the inclusion of this loan, because I know very well that through the revitalization of the buffer and the continuation of the assembly of the delayer 8,500, where these funds are specifically defined, I speak for the RBK, all our business entities are included: "Cola Metal" as a business carrier, "Lola Engineering", "Gosa", "North" Subotica and of course what we must never forget, our country is an open country and it is that we now have to co-operate with "Concara" from Zagreb. So, through this, not only does Serbia's Elektroprivreda, but other parts of our economy are being driven. I've just specifically listed what is involved for this part that I'm well-known for, the base "Colabar". Of course it's necessary to make that bagger, look how much it costs a new bagger, because unfortunately after the shift of leadership, there's been a carnage; as it's mentioned here, it's a million yards of damage, thousands of meters of tape is torn. There are cries here that there will be no coal in the Kolubara mining base. Of course, there will be no amount of it and the reason for it; there is because people who are now leading the Coluber have given up certain technological solutions; there is no need to conflict, but definitely in the Dark East at the end of March there will be no coal. But that's why we have to say that those people who, instead of the main projects, discover coal, they discovered the cheddar, buried the roads and the local communities, and they won the election. For this, there are all major projects, which we must stick to, and ultimately there must be certain responsibilities, as the Democratic Party has always advocated. Both before 5 October and after 5 October there must be responsibility. It's the only way we're gonna go forward and just like that with new law packages. I hope they'll come sooner and there won't be this kind of extortional adoption, retroactive, because don't doubt that money has been spent so far. It's just that KFA bank representatives know that, but if we take over the people who came to our country and the experts are, we have to say that our domestic experts, both in the paper report and on the disks, gave everything we needed to keep the repairs going uninterrupted until 2001. We are all fully aware that this is not enough, but must underline what has been established by the defect, and through the help of the Serbian government is done 100%, that it is not enough, but as much as possible has been done. So, I implore you to adopt this law for all of us, and for the sake of all of us, and unrelated only to "Electro-price of Serbia", and in the hope that we will have before this respected home all future laws, I underline, not retroactively; or, at least, packages of laws that are most necessary in order to move forward as a society, and to make the legislative sphere into what reforms are, rather than merely, conditionally speaking, to seem to report, or how someone likes to say - by dealing with daily problems - we solve things that we face.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18305	The word is made by MP Dragan Tomic, and then by MP Milisav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18306	Dear Members of the People's Parliament, it is simply amazing that when someone from the opposition asks a question, and it is said -- can we know whether this credit arrangement includes both the Serbian economy and whether some of the funds from this loan will be allocated to the Serbian economy, which is based on the electricity system, which works in that area and whether some of these funds will remain in the Serbian economy, that other employees will benefit from all of this, we have a salvo of ugly words from here -- how can we even ask that question. Any credit that is due to enter Serbia's economy is welcome, but when messages are sent from this pay phone to Serbian citizens, then some facts such as -- as the Elektroprivreda of Serbia has been destroyed are simply forgotten. We have a simple fact that in 1999, NATO bombings were the strongest and largest part of the capacity in the area on many occasions bombed, that there were many human casualties and that employees of superhuman power, did their best to maintain as much energy as possible during the war and aggression. After that, we had the fact that significant resources were invested in restoring equipment service capacities, for what was destroyed, to raise and that the electricity system could work at all. Of course, no one is talking about the war damage that occurred during that period and how the electrical system can at all be a legitimate goal for any war aggression. Here is also the fact that we have come into a situation to interrupt the extraordinary meeting of the Assembly and to discuss the subject that has been delayed. A good part of that loan has already been spent. There's probably only another tranche to be expected. I have to say that here are the terms -- it's about the budget, or the federal state or the Republic of Serbia, some funds are being used, and in this case it's about loans. These days we have in Belgrade and talks on a $800m loan, with one basic purpose -- to finance budget deficits. That would be good if that budget deficit, so-called. The budget deficit, used for Serbia's economy and for the development of capacity for youth employment, labour employment and the employment of existing capacities. It is obvious that these are loans whose donors determine the purpose and determine that only one way can be used, which is to finance budget deficits. They will exist in every country and economy, unless the economy is taken care of. We have not heard, from the adoption of the budget for this year to the day today, whether at all one of the authorities in this Serbia will invest a dinar or any foreign currency in development or to build capacity in Serbia's economy, to improve working conditions, to lower the economic loss process and, of course, to strengthen production, which Serbian citizens expect. The fact is, in this area, we're taking a loan that's necessary for a remont. It would be interesting to resolve the second issue -- how to reach the level of capacity needed for production that is sufficient for Serbia. Because the fact is that Serbia produces less electricity than the amount of consumption required on an annual basis. Does anyone even think about how to create a level of capacity that will be necessary for Serbia to have enough electricity during the year? We heard here and said that last year, electricity imports amounted to 10% of daily consumption. That means that if the daily consumption is about 150 million kilowatts, then 15 million kilowatts per day we've imported. Then we have to ask: who are the importers; under which criteria they have imported electricity; whether it is social enterprises; whether EPS has imported at all; or the Government of the Republic of Serbia; or whether it is some private companies again. They say they make $300,000 a day. When it comes to the price of electricity at this point in Serbia, then you see an average. It's just that no one asks what the price of electricity in the red tariff is, the one that bothers the citizens of Serbia the most. It is 13 to 17 times the real price in Europe. And nobody's saying how to go back to real basics, and the real basics are what citizens can pay for, but we've got another announcement of an increase in electricity price by 2.2 times over the next year. No growth in income in citizens, no growth in the economy, no economic power that can pay that price. A comment from the EPS, which we got on the team, says, borrow from the neighbors, as if the neighbor had money to pay the price of electricity. And that's why the SPS, for these reasons, because we don't know and because the committees responsible, as mentioned here, will have no insight into all this, and we MPs in this House, will not support this proposal. It may not matter to you, but I am sure it is important for the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18307	The word has been issued by MP Branislav Ivkovic, asking for a replica of the presentation of MP Stanko Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18308	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am here as head of the SPS parliamentary group with a clear and loud voice that the SPS MPs and that they support activities to launch economic production. Normally, and those activities that mean investing foreign capital and those activities that go towards making this investment of foreign capital directly in production, with our equipment manufacturers, with our builders. It's clear and loud here, and no one can impute that it's not behind it. However, the constitution of the Republic of Serbia is clearly and clearly cited here, which speaks precisely about the fact that it is our obligation to talk about guarantees. It has been said loudly here that since 1992, since the country's embargo, including the financial embargo, of course the Serbian Parliament has been unable to discuss and reveal those who lend loans to this country and that the job was done by the governor of the National Bank of Yugoslavia. But I've asked open questions that if he doesn't answer, we'll be against this. I said - is this credit realised, is it also to what extent; is there a guarantee that the realisation has already been credited by all the money agreed, agreed, even spent; is the technologically justified equipment and who approved it as such? Here are just questions, to get answers. If all this stands and waits for our guarantee, if the EPS with its professional teams will be identified for the equipment behind which the technologically written EPS expert team stands, if this gro realisation goes to our equipment manufacturers, then of course we will vote. But we said -- how come we vote, we give guarantees for a loan, whose contract we don't see? So we're looking to see a contract based on which a guarantee is made for that credit arrangement. Is there nothing more logical than seeing the paper for which we give a guarantee, so whoever buys anything he sees in the window what he buys, then buys it. This is where they asked - who was negotiating on behalf of the EPS? These are not bizarre questions, Mr. Stanko Kovacevic, but domestic issues, which every host wants to ask. Will you then vote and give guarantees for something you have not seen, a contract, and what is it that these claims are based on? Secondly, enough here is enough of the mourning of former union revolutionaries, who lost their chairs, about what kind of electricity was. So what should be Serbia's electricity, if half the hall here asked for electricity bills not to be paid? Well, Nis alone owes you a billion and 500 million dinars; so that's half of this loan you're now looking to make. The citizens are forced not to pay the EPS's bills, the opposition deliberately went to the fact that the electricity industry has no capital; and what do you want, what does it look like to the electricity industry of which the plants are rocketed? Aren't the most significant distribution facilities, from Batajnica to Smederev, Novi Sad, Nis, rocketed by NATO aggressors? We barely fixed them. You know, when you talk about the past 10 years, it's hypocritical and pathetic to forget what's been going on in this country for 10 years. You'd better listen to what you're told back in The Hague.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18309	The word is made by MP Milisav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18310	Dear Vice-President, honourable Minister Djelic, respected resistance, respected members of the families of the kidnapped, respected fellow MPs, we have the opportunity during this multi-party system for the first time in 10 or 12 years to discuss a credit arrangement with another country today. As it's done, I don't want to say much, but I'm going to say what's going on in the EPS today. The situation in the EPS today is catastrophic. Production capacities have been developed, the distribution network has been destroyed, and strategic policies have hardly been established in this country. No one invested in distribution, no one invested in production capacity without talking about failures and how much it costs Serbia today, which we didn't know strategically to reorient ourselves in time and to use other alternative ways and sources of energy in Serbia. It can be said to the good part that citizens are not satisfied with the price, they are not satisfied with the sometimes low voltage, but they can't even talk about it without knowing which policy they used to be and why they're not happy about it. It's not for the simple reason that our gas stations were on the street, because our banks were on the street, because our country was messy. We had an unsettled state, we had an abandoned public enterprise. The fact today is that this credit arrangement is the first good step towards resolving the situation in the electricity sector. Never again allow and never again do we have such a situation to sign a credit agreement with China on paper, or on a napkin, a minister or governor of the National Bank. The times have passed, the public of Serbia must be informed, parliament must be informed in the future of every international contract project and we MPs must also be informed. I support this contract, I support this legislative project, and I call on fellow Members to also vote in favour of this project.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18311	The word has a folk MP Milos Lukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18312	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, distinguished guests, is ahead of us with the text of the draft law on the granting of guarantees from the Republic of Serbia for a credit arrangement of 51m euros. All of this wouldn't be so terrible, and it should be done routinely, if we didn't see the text of a law that contained only five members, which is one of which is essentially Article 3. This member says: "The loan funds will buy goods and services from the public company EPS, i.e. they will conclude with one or more contractors one or more contracts for the purchase of equipment and similar services for the restoration of lignite mines and the general remont power plant". This is the point. The government's representative, the minister, said in an opening statement that this is a new practice, that parliament consults in office and gives, in practice, a guarantee on behalf of the Republic of Serbia for the country's obligations to abroad. However, the question arises -- do we, as representatives of the House, have the right to, on the basis of only this one member, such an explanation and one oral explanation, which is also without any data or arguments, do we have the right to vote for such a proposal? We of the Soviet Union believe that this arrangement should be made, however, we believe that this assembly deserves to be properly informed of the whole work. The fact is, it's missing here, and it's from the exposure of many of my predecessors, that elaborate. If the Management Board of Elektroprivrede has considered this question, why has this decision not been delivered to us, why no relevant data and arguments have been provided, when that decision has been made. When it comes to the Ministry of Energy, we believe that their place was here and that they should have made this topic professionally and qualitatively enlightened from their point of view, because the citizens of Serbia certainly deserve to be informed of all the details of this arrangement. The least that could have been done is that, in addition to this legal text, the text of the loan agreement is attached to us, so we don't all have to be experts to rule out energy, industry or anything. There are people we can consult. There was plenty of time and we could have done it. So here's the old dilemma again -- the government and the Parliament's relationship. It seems that we serve here as the Assembly, to verify some procedure that has already been done long ago, and to give only cover to that arrangement that has already been practically concluded. We heard the dilemma that most of the money had already arrived, that it was spent, etc., and we didn't hear the demos. So this law is very important, anyway. I think it's inconclusive of the Serbian government for giving us such a proposal, such a shrub, that this proposal should have been completed and that all arguments should have been made, those arguments that we as MPs would have used for this speaker, because it's obvious that we don't have them; then, those arguments that the press, radio and television could also use to give their own court on a job like this. It is certain that it would be interesting from a number of angles, because this parliament deserves a more serious approach and we deserve to be respected by the ministry when it makes such proposals. We also heard that the Industry Committee had a certain position on this issue, however, we did not get that report. Another question arises: whether, by borrowing from the German bank, we give up our desire to really determine the damage caused by Serbia's Elektroprivred During the war destruction and whether we gave up the claim to compensate for the war damage. In any case, in order to protect this House and protect the MPs, as well as those who voted us, we believe that the Soviets will not support this law. I say, for these reasons, although duty is necessary.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18313	The People's MP Vladan Radovanovic has the word, followed by MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18314	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there has been a lot of time spent here on one subject, which, unfortunately, is not the subject of today's conversation. It's about Serbia's cement industry and cement sales. Don't mind me, just a few sentences for correcting and correct interpreting some information about it. When it comes to cement in Novi Popovac, by April 2001 the chairman of the Management Board was Igor Mirovic of the SRS. At that time, in 2000, the production was about 980,000 tons of cement and, with an average price of 104 marks per tonne of cement, produced 8% of the loss. But those 104 marks per tonne of cement we got only in November 2000, and before that, the average price was 42 stamps per tonne, so you can imagine the total loss. Also, gas was bought for cement store by the private company "Exit". Today it's bought from the Energogas. The slag or gurga, some say, was purchased from the private company Agrovojvodina, and is now compensated with the manufacturer "Sartida" - lasporac for the guru, i.e. slag. Also, the ash, which is necessary in the production of the clinker, is purchased from the private company Standard, and today is purchased from the Svilinca Termo Power Plant. As a result, production has improved and secured a profit rate of 140 million dinars. The second thing, the total price that was in the tender is 139 million marks, which is more than 79 million marks from what was placed and prepared for sale before 5 October 2000. Also, 30 million marks is a social programme, 10 million marks are ecological filters for environmental restoration, 5% of sales goes to the Parisian municipality, 5% goes to improve the economy throughout the region and 2% of gross production that can't be less than a million tonnes a year. The citizens are satisfied, 3,000 workers are satisfied. If you do not believe, ask another member of the Management Board, from that time on, Mr. Tomovic from the SPS. The German credit institution gives a 51m-euro loan. Has anyone here remembered that for New Year's holidays, Serbia's Elektroprivreda produced a record 140m kilowatt-hours. Has anyone remembered that the support of EPS is useful, above all, because citizens and businesses have normal conditions and a minimum for some comfortable life, that we have electricity. Grace's three-year period, I think it's quite enough time to consolidate Serbia and that in those three years we have the conditions to pay back that debt very slowly afterwards. I believe that our economy will also get a chance to compete, and thus also to secure some revenue. I am sure, to the extent possible, that this will be an impulse and an incentive for stable and new jobs and to improve the overall standard of economy and population. The remont power plants will also enable normal production of electricity, or electricity to the energy plants themselves. The 4.3% interest, as Mr. Minister said, may not be very small, but it's probably the best we can get right now. On the other hand, three years of postponement of payment, eight years of payment, and even when we remember how solid we are in debt and how we've been returning loans so far, I believe this is super-plating and a great job for us. Even if the subsidy is reduced, thank you. Said someone just now - borrow from the neighbors. It comes to me, as I hear, interest on deposits, armed funds and funds seen by foreign banks are two possibly three percent on the annual level, and there is a tax on that income. Perhaps the minister could consider the possibility, and the propo of that -- borrow from the neighbours, offer to our dear neighbours -- the radicals and the Socialists -- to place their resources, which under these conditions among these foreign banks, borrow Serbia by three to four percent, where we would get a little cheaper terms, and you would get a little more interest.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18315	The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18316	I think that Ceda Jovanovic should give some horse to ride you from the Democratic Party, not ride this pay phone for nothing and not call the radicals... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18317	I remind the MP of the Parliament's obligation to address with respect. I know the truth hurts, but not so much that we lose cultural treatment with the others in this room. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18318	You see, Mrs. Komic, when Cedomir Jovanovic said that they had sold cements more cheaply now, but that the difference was only for the part that should have taken the previous power and put it in their pockets, you didn't feel at all invited to react and to tell the MP, Mr. MP, I warn you of some level of debate that should be held behind this speaker. You don't even listen when your MPs speak. You include sensors when a Serbian payphone radical comes out and you wait for every word. This is about robbery, kidnapping, crime. You were the one who took over power almost two years ago. Which one of us received an invitation, even from the prosecutors, to report for an informative conversation at the Serbian MUP because we were dealing with crime, because we were kidnapping, because we were robbing. As long as you use this pay phone to accuse Serbian radicals of robbery. I ask you what heist heist for, what heist for? Stanko Kovacevic comes out, accuses us of robbery, and his general's only been out of power for a year, only a year is not in power. What kind of robbery are you talking about? Are you there? Where were you all those years, did you participate in this country's life? Why do you have an obligation, and I don't know you at all, you're nothing in public life, and in political life you represent nothing. Where did you get the right to slap an SRS like that from this pay phone? For what? For fiction. Who told you it was cheaper to sell a "New Popovac" cement store? Where did you get that information? There was no talking about it at all. We're talking to you about the one-commentary in Vojvodina, for which almost twice the price has been reached. Now we find out, here from this pay phone, that you sold it cheaper, and that's the part that we were supposed to put in our pockets. What's this about? Anyone who says we are, go out for this pay phone, say how much money the Serbian radicals have put in their pockets. You were done with that, so why don't you say, on the date of the contract for this loan. Everything would be clear to Serbia. What transparency, the funds already spent. Why the Government of the Republic of Serbia guarantee? So no one trusts Djindjic anymore when he makes loans, sees the government changing, wants the state's guarantee, so when the government changes power that the state has to vouch for this. That's what this is about, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. For what we say in principle against this bill, we want to bear the blame. When we say there's no relevant data, we'll take the blame. You might say there is, and for a normal man there's no data here, there's no contract here, there's no date for that contract. How many tranches of money came into the country, how much equipment came into the country, and someone now remembered when they needed MPs to cover that job. (President: three minutes and thirty seconds. I'm done. This is just covering up for the job. Let me not ask you, that no one here has written to you, and how much of a German government is going to free this bank, how much more of a positive add-on that we're going to have. It's not enough just to come here, bring your aunt and uncle and explain the law in two minutes. This is serious business. This law is one of who knows how many you're going to bring now. Remember when we went against... (President: Four minutes. )......................................................................................................... Tito, the basis was that our grandchildren were also in debt to foreign loans.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18319	The word has been given by MP Veroljub Arsic... Excuse me, MP. [[Zagor in the O.R.]] Replica was reported by MP Branislav Ivkovic. The basis for the replica - the presentation of Vladan Radovanovic on the placement of socialist property in our banks.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18320	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm really under the honor of what I have to say right now. Sometimes the function of a parliamentary group president forces you to enter a zone that is borderline with a grocery-primitive zone performing on this speaker. Mr. Radovanovic, I ask you on behalf of the citizens of Serbia, which is what you personally have, how many shops you have on the market in Jagodina, how many shops you have in Jagodina itself, in villages around Jagodina, when you acquired it and how you gained it. I assume you got it all before October 5th. It proves that you're one part right, that those who deal with tax policy didn't well test you and your business, because they'd probably have less to gain. As for the way we speak here for this assembly speaker, I must repeat again, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia says that the Republika Srpska Assembly must give guarantees of duties. It is clear to every Serbian writer that since 1992, when financial sanctions and blockades were imposed on this country, no assembly has wanted to give guarantees publicly to creditors, as it would call creditors who would have had to suffer sanctions for the embargo against Yugoslavia. That's the only truth. Secondly, you urged Serbian citizens not to pay for electricity. Nis alone owes a billion and five hundred million dinars, which is half of this debt. Third, the Socialist MPs welcome every investment in capital in this country, whether foreign or private, because it finally comes to the dictionary of the word economy and comes to the dictionary of the word production. We particularly support investment in the EPS, where exceptional workers work and where these facilities with their workers have endured a terrible ten-year embargo and the rocketing of NATO aggressors. They've repaired their facilities so that in the wildest winter these plants will function. We can't support and vote for a guarantee, if someone doesn't explain it to us, let's give people a look at that contract, let's see if that money has already entered this country, if it's already been identified, if it's already been spent, if someone has guaranteed the quality of technological solutions and the supply of equipment with that money. That's what we want to see. Who negotiated that? If you're giving a guarantee, then you want to know what you're guaranteeing. As for the cement factory, it is clear to everyone and it is known that the prices for which cements were sold are below the prices negotiated during the government of Mirko Marjanovic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18321	National MP Slobodan Tomovic, mentioned in the presentation of MP Vladan Radovanovic, as a member of the board of directors of cement, who knows all the information he has provided. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18322	Thank you very much, Madam Chairman, and I thank my fellow MP for giving me the opportunity to say a few words from this pay phone about the work of this board of directors, whose member I was. So the first thing I would like to remind my fellow MPs is that until the formation of this board of directors -- and it was formed by the government of the people's unity, whose president was Mirko Marjanovic at the time -- that cementary was in collapse. Production was minimal, and, of course, cement deliveries were sold to particularly certain people, with rich and fat commissions. That board of directors that came in then cut it off, dear colleague. What you're saying is that cement was also supplied to some goods by privates, so I guess you're going to tell me that you're pushing for the private sector to be discriminated against by the social sector, compared to something else. That's exactly what we've been trying to do since we've been in this system and we've been doing, to explain the need and to provide the reasons for privatisation. So I want to point out this, too, that cement is sold at a lower price than when it was negotiated, and when we were a little bit, so to speak, competent. So I ask that what you have said about this speaker, criticizing the previous board of directors, not even the householders anymore, I doubt they will believe you, too. And for your information, I don't know if any of the board members were charged, I don't know if anyone was put on their souls in that sense. When the new board of directors came, the chairman of the board of directors who is now director, was immediately involved in an affair, and as this affair ended, I don't know or care. That's probably what someone who's been invited to do, but I'm just saying that there's a very visible difference, and in public it's known, between the work of that board of directors and the one that was now sold before the cement store was sold. Now the price will be determined by the one to which it was sold, and as for the price of cement, as far as production is concerned, I will remind you that it was the time of the renovation, that the production was directed at construction sites, that the hospital was renovated, that the bridges were restored and so on, and that the price in that sense was as it was, and the cost of cements was in a certain way subsidized. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18323	The word has a National MP Stanko Kovacevic, a replica of.... So, break to 15.00 hours. The afternoon section begins with the replica of MP Stanko Kovacevic, and then the word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18324	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please insert your cards into the MPs to determine the quorum. I figure we have a quorum and we can keep working. The word has been given by MP Stanko Kovacevic, which is a right of replication for the presentation of MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18325	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honored guests, my replica refers to the presentation of MP Tomislav Nikolic, who, in his discussion, interpreted my presentation as saying that the President of the Movement for Democratic Serbia, Mr Perisic, was until one year ago a member of the government of the previous government, which I negatively spoke of here for this speaker. I would really like to point out that when I spoke in a negative context about the previous government of Serbia and mentioned some form of the most poaching power, I know that many participants in the then government would be very happy to give up their participation in such a government, but now it is impossible, because the consequences they have caused are really irreparable. And to argue that Mr. Perisic was in that power, and it is clear that we are talking about the former government in the Republic of Serbia for this speaker, while Mr. Perisic was chief of the Yugoslav Army General Staff as a federal authority; he could possibly have some federal government treatment and had nothing to do with power in the Republic of Serbia. Indeed, I consider Mr Perisic to be an incorrect and dishonest man to be bound by a thief's authority, so one general, an exceptional patriot and a Serbian rights fighter, who was able to stand first and tell Milosevic what his authority is like and that such a power can no longer be put up with. So the only one had the courage to say that. Putting him in such a power that Milosevic had led is indeed incorrect, and especially because Mr. Perisic as a general, as a patriot, is extremely responsible for protecting thousands and thousands of lives of our children and our grandsons and for these reasons I wanted to go out for this pay phone, to disprove such allegations by Ambassador Tom Nikolic in his discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18326	Replica, Alexander Vukic, on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18327	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I know that many of them are sorry, many would like me not to go out for this pay phone for the next 10 years, if Natasha Micic could give such a punishment to say you would immediately support it, but I have to point out one thing that has been said today. Many when they come out for this pay phone I guess they think they're gonna be scared of them or I don't know what to do, so they start yelling, talking in the language of the worst insults, slanders, counterfeits, lies, those we've learned from every day watching all the TVs, reading almost every newspaper, listening to radio stations; so you can hear as a key argument to the DOS regime that their political opponents are fools, jerks, lunatics, like this or something. But all this says a lot more about the DOS regime, because that's what people who have no knowledge, no education, no brains, no arguments are used to do, people who don't know what to say anymore. Something about this - the best; as Mr Kovacevic keeps talking about it: you have not responded, Mrs Micic. If I had said that by any chance, I'm sure you would have taken my word. It doesn't say in the Rules of Procedure that you can carry out the shooting, and if it did, you'd do something like that. I think that's enough of that and that's enough of that kind of lie and that's enough of that kind of fiction. You speak every time - 10 years ago someone caused hyperinflation or I don't know what. Tell me who caused hyperinflation - you caused hyperinflation. You want to say that to me: to whom you talked that I was a hitler when Mr. Seselj and Nikolic were in prison, and you don't know where you were; you want for those two and a half years, as much as we were minority partners, and you're almost as alone absolutely in power. What are you talking about? Who are you talking to anymore? That's enough of that talk. For us, they're... Here some poor coward started throwing again, who can't show up behind this pay phone and who can never say anything in my face; come and tell me in my face; come and tell me outside or tell me from this pay phone. Don't be so miserable that... No, it's the gentleman in the back. Don't act so miserable, cowardly, miserable and sad. It's like you, but pay attention to your behavior. Be as civilized and polite as you are. I'm not afraid of twenty like you. Twenty of them I'm not afraid of, like you are. Well, come and say it. [[Laughter]] So don't talk about who's rich and who's rich. For us Serbian radicals are usually more incomparably poor voters, if you will. It's no accident that our annual membership fee is one mark, and you have ten marks. That shows something. Our members don't have it and they can't pay. If you have something, make a judicial verdict - this is a thief, not that you stick labels here to honest people, honest hosts, a better part of Serbia, incomparably better than you (president - time) to speak who is a thief and who is not a thief. There are murderers here, and racketeeres, and all kinds of people who are going to talk about how some others are wrong and how they're responsible for something. You're responsible for that. You're responsible for the people's lack of bread to eat today. Don't like the communists did in 1946, so you created a new RTS, and they had (president-time) to finish. The weather's usually nice, they told me. So, as far as communists are concerned in 1946, they created a new thought, and you RTS, so everything is wrong with Stojadinovic, is no good, Jovanovic, and so are you. Give the people bread to eat, to have electricity to pay, not just to deal with counterfeits, slanders, lies, and nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18328	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic, and after that, Slobodan Tomovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18329	Dear Members of the Parliament, during this debate, I can say that I have listened to everything and even that some colleagues have said about this pay phone that this is one of the coldest winters in the last 20 years, forgetting that today is February 18th, meaning winter, that it is about 15 degrees outside and that this time has been almost a month. I don't blame it on such MPs, because as MP number one says on his television, RTS, how difficult the conditions for working here are, how we do underground, how the hall is understated, I feel like we're miners here. As far as I can see from this loan, the most likely will be placed in mines with surface exploitation. Here the minister often talked about Kostolc, spoke several times, and for his information - I enrolled and ended up in Kostulc. The direction is similar to the directions needed in the industrial-energy combination "Costoc" and although I do not work in the profession, many of my school friends are miners or workers on the maintenance of these spears. I can tell you that even today, ever since you came to power, such a situation on the spears that abuses are much greater than they were before. Unlike those who, as Mr. Minister, visit the same mines, when they're being set up by listeners or cowards who can't say what the real problems are to avoid losing their jobs, these people are at least honest with me, because we've known each other for tens, fifteens and years. It is said that at the time of economic sanctions against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, a number of working machinery and transport vehicles were hired in the "Kostolac" surface digging mines. The fact is, no one wanted their work to be paid with cash, but only with coal. That's what the machines were looking for. Someone told me, are they crazy? I can tell you they're not crazy because they managed to get coal at three or four stamps, even though the market price was about 20 marks. That's what happened at the embargo. For your information - right now, of all the spears that are in exploitation, the only real production has a surface copy of "Small". The surface copies "Kostolac", "Cirikovac" and "Klennik" do not meet the needs of Termo Power Plant Block 1 "Kostolac". From the moment you came to power, the same people who allowed these abuses around the price of coal were the first to take part in the suspensions of labor and since you came to power have been promoted and moved, so that their predecessors have overcome many things. Since it is now necessary to move coal from the surface digger "Storm" to the Kostolac trucks, the same story is happening again. Only here now is the heist of spears much bigger. Coal is sold to citizens, spears sell it for 20 marks, with no one to pay for it. It can only be with those who give those vehicles. If anyone manages to pay, if they find the truck and send it, they'll spend it on the ramp, believe it or not, from five to seven days. While the gentlemen who hire their machines have priority and drive that coal, which raises the price to 60 to 70 marks in retail. Not to talk, to create artificial coal shortages, to coax, to bribe, and to order managers and shift heads to slow down production in mines that serve to dislodge the gaps, to slow it down on the coal mines. Thus, all these spears, someone sat down and calculated, each year they lose about 35 million marks. So much is the price of abuse only in the difference of the price of coal from 4 to 20 marks, and not to mention that now the state is giving truck service, the purchase of spare parts, fuel and oil, and the mileage that is charged in the traffic of coal to citizens is invoiced as working on spears and thus buying new tons of coal for new abuses. If all of this were to be considered and the price paid, if it were a minimum of 35 million marks, then I would ask Mr. Djelic what he's doing. If he's pecking on a chicken that wears golden eggs, the only problem is that those golden eggs won't belong to the spears as they should.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18330	The word has a National MP, Slobodan Tomovic, and then Predrag Canovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18331	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, part of my address from this pay phone, within the quota belonging to the Socialist Party of Serbia, I will use a few words, as a replica, to say in a really puzzling word spoken from this pay phone when it comes to some former or former governments and when it comes to the epithets being given to these governments. I was personally a member of the Government of National Unity, in which the president was Mirko Marjanović, and I was a member of the transitional government; when I hear that anyone from this pay phone, and I won't mention his name for good taste, he talks about the government as a thief, I have to react because I was a member of that government, and I don't consider myself a thief. If there's any evidence for that, please bring them out. That's the first one. Secondly, if there's any evidence for any government, let the words say what they're evidence. We stand for the rule of law. We, therefore, advocate the rule of law, we advocate the legal order. No one is guilty before this guilt is proved before valid judgments are established. Therefore, please, until then and in the domain of insinuation, I will not tell you at all, Madam Chairman, that I am giving you a grudge, nor Mrs. Komic, who replaced you, why when someone talks about the former government with the epithets of "the thief" does not receive a warning or at least a hint that they will receive a warning. If any of us had said, and I didn't think of it, for this government to be a thief, I believe the warning would be made. So much so that it is known that this pay phone should first and foremost be used to point to some failures and some criticisms, not that everyone, based on their personal feelings, is unpunished by the thought and not even being warned. Now, since I was also Minister of Mining and Energy in that government, as well as the chairman of the EPS Management Board, I dare say, along with a number of others who have already taken part in considering this issue now on the agenda, to talk about it as someone who, sometimes as much as he has, has dealt with it. What I want to say first and first of all, I want to focus your attention - from this pay phone it's been heard many times that in the past ten years everything's been worked out, everything's gone to hell, everything's ruined. I am speaking and focusing on the electricity system of Serbia. If that were the case, gentlemen, and it's known that we've been in sanctions these past ten years and that in sanctions you can't import a turbine, you can't introduce a part of the turbine, because it's big, it's being recognized. So, since you can't introduce it, then you have to do something else to replace a handicap of what's called a refurbishment of equipment. And here we come to the field of technique, where I also dare say something from this pay phone again -- there's something, gentlemen, what's called a maintenance system, and in that system, the procedure for the various operations and procedures that come from the current, through preventive maintenance, and then through the medium, light, and at the end of the general remonts, they end up in this domain called maintenance. So you're saying that on the general remont plan, nothing was working. On the other hand, we were hermetically closed, we couldn't import anything, buy some new equipment. So how did we maintain the stability of the power system, so do you think that we were able to solve what is technical fiction, and it's called the perpetum of the mobile, that nothing can get energy from anything? I'm warning you, and I'm really asking you to stay away from those demagogue stories, which are colored by bad intentions, which are colored by party acuity. Let's talk like businessmen, let's talk like technical faces and let's see -- what we have to do now, to solve one so burning and one such important and big problem, which is called Serbia's electricity system. And speaking of which, I want to tell you right now that I'm very opposed to the idea that we're getting through this law, which is that we're partially solving the problem of the power system. So, we say -- let's give the loan guarantee, so, as it says in Article 4, we're going to buy the loan for goods and services, or we're going to conclude with one or more contractors (so we don't know with anyone, or with how many) one or more contracts for the supply of equipment and similar services for restoring the equipment of lignite mines and general electrical remonts. That's two completely separate concepts. One is getting equipment, the other is a general remont. We have to decide what we want to do - general remont or get equipment. Mr. Djelic said - exclusively for the general remont. Then let's wipe out what's standing here. But what's partial -- it's partial that our problem isn't that we're going to get that equipment and perform a general remont? If we just do that, we're really going to do a lot to improve the stability of the power system, but we're not going to solve the key issue, and let's agree on that once, and the key question is -- the lack of capacity to produce electricity. That's what our problem is, and the remont problem only solves that we have a reliable functioning of those capacities that are already installed. And what are we going to do with what we're missing, because we're missing all of Kosovo A and B, energy. So what are we going to do about what, when it starts, when the production starts, I expect all of you, I pray to God that the sooner it happens, the more privatization, any other way: what if the electricity is not spent just on heating apartments, etc.? Where are we gonna get that power? Someone's gonna say, well, they're gonna give us donations and we're gonna buy it. And that's what I'm saying -- it's not worth it, because the transmission network isn't so dimensional that we can buy what we can, provided there's someone to sell to us, to transfer. Therefore, I object to a partial discussion. Let's buy the equipment without saying how complex we're going to solve the problem. It's like, let the promoter forgive me, but in front of the public I have to say, he looks like the guy who's sneezing the house, and he's sitting in the room holding the umbrella, and it's important he doesn't fall on his head, and it doesn't matter what the house is sneezing. So, I advocate that we solve the problem of the electricity system and the electricity industry complexly, and in this sense I pray that today, as a parliament, we reach the conclusion that we are asking the Secretary of State and the Secretary of State to tell us - how, which, and what, in that sense, we should guarantee, if we already guarantee, this problem of supplying electricity to be solved? As far as the bill is concerned, I'm not getting into whether it's the most favourable loan. Allow me to have no reason to doubt that Mr Djelic, who is currently in the position of the promoter's representative, has studied this well. So, as I don't know how much interest there was, someone asked today, when the previous government was in debt, I don't know what the interest is when this government is in debt, but I appreciate it, and I think that any government must have some responsibility for that. But what we need to know -- we need to know and I love to be told by Mr. Djelic, is whether we decide to do this in a post-festum or is it something that precedes what's called the conclusion of the contract, and then the realization of that freighter, and then the giving of those funds, and then all that comes from it. If that's it, let's say it. If this law is introduced for the first time in years after the Institute of Guarantees by deciding in parliament, then I still think that this law has its drawbacks, because it says what I need as MPs to guarantee, but nowhere in that law does it say what the mechanism of control is? So we'll give the guarantee, but if we gave the guarantee, and the guarantee is our word, and the word is the obligation we made towards the voters, then someone has to tell us -- and how are we as MPs going to give as a guarantee in realisation that we control? It doesn't say here in the law -- whether it's going to be one commission, whether it's going to be the intercommissions of these industrial committees, etc.; it doesn't say here, and it needs to be seen here. So, by joining the statements already made by my colleagues, the SPS MPs, I also insist that before the decision is made, other information is needed, which is - firstly, whether the loan is already concluded or not? If it's concluded, it's started to happen, and we need to know. People, we're right, we're going to say-- someone took a commitment, had to, we're going to be the jury. How are we gonna control what's going to happen here? In particular, since it is a financial loan, will the loan be, above all, well-favoured and privileged domestic enterprises and domestic production, because there is no reason not to. Lastly, I would also ask that one of the conclusions being asked by the competent minister and the EPS be made to give us one comprehensive material to which we will plead here and say - we have solved the problem of power supply, from now on and for some period. Without it, it's obviously declassified today, partial and ad hoc to discuss this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18332	The People's Messenger Predrag Canovic has the word, and after him, the People's Messenger Lazar Marjanski.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18333	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Soviet Union's parliamentary group opposes the proposal that the Republic of Serbia assumes the obligation to settle, as a guarantee, the debt of the Public Enterprise "Electroprivred Serbia" to Germany's development bank for several reasons. First of all, it's unclear why this law is being proposed right now, and it's an emergency procedure. In the light of this law, it is stated that it was of general interest, as if it had not been of general interest before. So the question is whether it's really a reason or whether it's about the need to justify the money already received and spent by an emergency procedure. Secondly, if the condition for giving this loan is the European electricity price in our country, can't "Electro-price Serbia" be rehabilitated and recovered from these funds. Moreover, the reason for this law does not specify whether "Electropriority of Serbia" will be able to settle the debt, or the likelihood that the EPS will be able to settle the debt and in what form the debt will be settled - whether only money or perhaps some other means. At the end of the line, there is also a question of why the EPS is in debt, not the state of Serbia. It is also unclear who will control that the money received will really be used to rebuild lignite mines and general remont power plants, or that money and those funds will be spent for other purposes. Finally, whether the Elektroprivreda of Serbia and the state of Serbia can guarantee Serbian citizens that after receiving such a loan, they will have a neat supply of electricity or we will have an obligation to export electricity. I'm afraid that basically all of this still lies the sale of "Electroprived Serbia" at a small door. All of these are dilemmas that will make the Soviet Union's parliamentary group unable to support this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18334	The People's Messenger Lazar Marjanski has the word, and after him, the People's Messenger Ljubomir Mucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18335	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, when our mines are mentioned, both underground and surface digging, can be said with certainty that they are in a catastrophic state, and this also refers to the machinery in those mines. I must point out that NIS - Naftagas belongs to the mining category, that the equipment in NIS has been very long and sought as quickly as possible and as quickly as possible the reparation and purchase of new NIS funds. If 51m euros in loans or loans are obtained, however, does this mean that coal production will be much higher, which means that electricity will be cheaper for the wider consumption of citizens; does this mean that the EPS debt to its contractors, subcontractors, suppliers, will begin to return. Just one example: The Kostolac has already been blocked for two years by 50 judicial justice solutions and it wants to solve the problem through compensation, but many at the top of the EPS do not allow it. In fact, they're looking for 25% of the discount, and that's very well-known to us businessmen, and we know who these people are. Does this mean, when coal production is increased, that there will be no more buyers, buyers, who are closely connected to the particular structure of the people in the mine and over the order and at a cheaper price, they get coal and tacos richer, now they're drilling how fair they are, and they have huge televisions and a huge park. We all know who the main buyers are in Kostolc, in Kolubara. What is planned with NIS investments, which are related to the "Electro-price of Serbia"? We know very well that part of Vojvodina gets electricity from the gas-operated thermal power plants. I'd like a few lies to deny. If the question was raised whether or not it was working in the EPS, the EPS was working and that's for sure, but it's not true that the EPS is a driver for the development of the economy. It is true that the SUNIS and EPS drivers of the economy in Serbia: 40% of Serbia's economy is related to NIS if NIS goes and the EPS economy will start. I think the economy gentlemen know that, and the ministers should know that. More equiency - here is said that in the past 10 years, there has been nothing done in the EPS. That can only be said by a man who has never worked in the economy, let alone mines or institutions that are tied to the EPS. It's got to be a day, a week, a month's maintenance. Without maintenance there is no work in the EPS and can't do installations. One pressing question -- Minister Vlahovic said that the EPS or part of EPS must be sold immediately, as well as the works of "Naftagas". If so and if it must be so, then why does the Serbian Government give these guarantees? A few questions to ask - is there a technical and technological justification for the loan we're raising; is there an economic justification for this loan? To raise such a big loan or a loan, you really need to have courage. Finally, as regards this loan from the German bank, one thing is certain that the contract must be reconsidered – were there other options, with other banks, at a more favourable interest and a larger grace period of payment. It is certain that Elektroprivreda Srbija and NIS must experience reconstruction and must go into production. That's why I'm proposing to Mr. Secretary to show us that contract when it's signed, or to tell us when that contract will be signed.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18336	The word has the People's MP Ljubomir Mucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18337	Madam President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me to present some views and findings that have already been made here, to confirm them and to sort of remove some doubts and present some suspicious circumstances why this is now. First, why an emergency procedure? Indeed, all that is brought in by an emergency procedure and during regular or extraordinary session, at the time of the interruption, I put in a certain doubt, and I must say that this is supported by the fact that in December, we already had a session of the Committee on Finance of some guarantees, counter-guarantee, as regards lending, it seems to me, to EPS, railways and public enterprises from Serbia, for the conduct and preparation of certain operations, for the reconstruction of the road network, railway infrastructure and electricity networks. When we adopted these guarantees and these laws on the council, the government immediately withdrew these laws and these guarantees, which at that time gave rise to certain doubts. Secondly, it is a confirmation that this is not the first time, that this government, as executive authority, is coming to parliament on guarantees and I repeat once again: what about those laws and decisions we adopted in December, and the government has urgently and quickly withdrawn them before the December session. Why are we giving this guarantee before the adoption of the budget system law? I think this is a good and real question, and this leads me to a certain suspicion, given that here the National Assembly provides guarantees for this loan, and under the law on the budgetary system, if we accept it, and we have given certain amendments to the bill and the power of the minister to sign the powers, i.e. to give guarantees and to be in debt on behalf of the Republic of Serbia. Why do we do this, rather, to give consent or guarantee to a smaller loan than to what will come after this. That's why I think this is the first and last time this House will be held in session and the guarantee laws discussed. I agree with all MPs who have stated that this bill lacks one party, i.e. a contract concluded between the EPS and the Rehabilitation Credit Office. And in my opinion and some calculations and considerations, the contract was concluded in late October or early November of last year and that part of the funds, half, was completed, or already spent. What does that point to me? If you take a clean logic and a mathematical operation that credit begins to return from 13 December 2004, and the grace period is three years and two months, and the repayment period is 13 years and 8 months, it precisely states that the contract was concluded in October of last year. What we've been waiting four months for at this point to guarantee. Secondly, in his explanation in the end, it is proposed that the law on the granting of guarantees from the Republic of Serbia for the mandate of the JP EPS be brought in by an urgent procedure, given that it is of general interest. We all agree it's in the general interest. However, the state of power plants in JP EPS during the winter season when its capacities should work maximum. So it's about the preparation of the power system and the capacity for this winter season, and that's what this argument also says. It is not clear to me that the headquarters of the credit institution is not put in place, but only the state of this guaranteeing office, and the JP EPS of Belgrade has been put in place, and we all know, at least we MPs here in this Serbia that JP EPS is based in Belgrade. That's why, no, that's from Electrodistribution yours. Don't bring him in here. The EPS headquarters of Belgrade has been placed, suggesting it is nearer to Germany, or it is the Republic of Germany. What is the guarantee on internal funds from the budget, and now the German bank's loans are returning to the budget: whose budget is, whose assets are JP EPS and who gives the guarantee? All is the same titler, the Republic of Serbia's budget, the JP EPS funds are the funds of the Republic of Serbia. Also, the guarantee is given by the Republic of Serbia, and that is how it is written, and not by this assembly, the Republic of Serbia as a state guarantees the EPS. Does the Republic of Serbia, if it settles these obligations to the EPS and the budget offers property or copies to the Institute instead of a new burden on taxpayers and whether it is the occupation of our mining wealth again. I would much prefer to discuss the guarantee of increasing capacity for electricity production, for example, the construction and continuation of the construction of a new "Colubara B" thermal power plant in Kalenić. I would make it very clear why it is of general interest, not just according to the means of information, and only 10% of the planned funds for the remont are provided from this loan. Today, it is announced that in this year, 12 billion dinars are to be provided for power plants, and only about 10% of these funds will be provided. I am all in favour of what I have been saying in the previous several sessions of the Assembly, at committee sessions, Mr. Novakovic, and it seems to me from Arangelovac, has repeatedly highlighted the problems that companies are involved in the reconstruction, which businesses produce equipment and electromaterials for reconstruction and remont of power plants. Also, another very serious question, what happens to outstanding debts? There are some new errors in the accounts again. What if they don't charge, and then the hinted price hike will be on the hit again by those who pay. In the end, where are the gentlemen promised donations? I can say that really about all this, I think there should be an informed Committee on Mining and Energy to consider the reports, and I also think that at the end of this mission, this assembly should be informed. Given that the repayment period begins at the end of the regular term, I hope that the term of office of this government will expire before the end of the term, and that the time and water will pass along this river and these rivers, until this debt is paid off. In the end, I propose that we do not accept this proposal and that indeed, I will vote publicly if, at the moment that it comes out and tells the MPs and the people of Serbia, the contract is signed then and then, they did the jobs you and you. Gentlemen, the papers have been carried out, by the supervisory authority and the competent ministry, and then I will accept that I am publicly voting to confirm and to guarantee this loan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18338	Thank you. Right on line, MP Zoran Novakovic. Here you go. He's mentioned by name, very Zoran Novakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18339	Dear fellow Members, there is only one more thing I can say why I have singled out my opinion: because there was absolutely no discussion on this subject at any session of the Industry Committee which includes energy. That's the first thing. The other thing, for the sake of truth, here all kinds of people talk, I don't know, record that and that, for the sake of truth, I spent ten years in that Colubari production with colleagues who went out here today for a pay phone too. (Milka Marinkovic, from the scene: That's why it failed. At the time of the Coluber, she achieved the greatest production in history, no matter what anyone threw in here. As for record production, the EPS achieved record production, for the sake of truth, for citizens, in 1998 at St. Nicholas - 155 million kilowatt-hours that day, that whole day. So, it was 1998, it wasn't for last new year, not to be lied to. As far as what's important, it's important that for two heating seasons, and this warm season is still going on, 570 million donations were received, gentlemen dear MPs. Of which, last heating season for electricity imports has spent 100 million marks, please, and for this heating season 150 million marks and there is the end of donations; just to be clear. The next heating season, it's going to take some fat guy in charge of importing up to 27 million kilowatts a day, that's the same thing for some truth. So, the donations are over, and those 50 million marks Mr. Minister's talking about were spent last year, that's definitely, and it would take that money from this loan to return to the budget. So, let the minister come out and say if it's not true, and 50 million is used this year for remonting the Termoelectrics B and for buying a bagger from FAM from Germany, which has never had any reference in Elektroprivred. That's what Mr. Jovicic was talking about, so that's what this is about. Definitely, loans are needed, money is needed, but, please, under quite different circumstances and if we want transparently, as the Ministers claim. Thank you. [[Governmental Jovicic from the site is looking for a replica.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18340	The word has a National MP, Petar Petrovic. Here you are, right on the line, MP Vladan Jovicic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18341	The Honorable Presidency, fellow MPs, dear friends and representatives of the People's Movement of Resistance and you unhappy with your missing in Kosovo, it is clear that everything in the report stands and I do not see the need for why we point out that part of the funds was spent in 2001. It is clear that part of the remaining 21m dinar funds will be returned to the government of the Republic of Serbia's budget because the government of the Republic of Serbia credited the EPS with the implementation of the remont in 2001. So that's what it is transparent and it's not hidden, because it's been told backwards for months, all spring when the remonts started in 2001. What is important is that without a side injection, without the financing of the new ones, simply cannot take the part that simply includes Serbia's complete economy, which is the EPS. Therefore, it is true that over the past ten years there have been record production and electricity and coal, and that vanbilance has been production, more precisely substantiated production on discovery, due to many factors, and most often due to the lack of resources for expropriation and most often due to equipment which, as such, suffered the most in 1992, precisely by the formation of an electro-prime system called the EPS. At that time, the mining base of Kolubara, under the leadership of the current director of the Coal Production and Arrival Directorate Slobodan Milosevic, was in power, although he was then in the SPS, and now in the Democratic Party, a senior official from the Together Coalition in 1996, spent funds for depreciation and accumulation and then paid to workers. It's the failure of an electric system that lasts for years. And now someone is simply trying to recover it, if now insists on natural relations, which is indeed a natural relationship, regardless of what the Serbian government is the founder of the EPS, means, precisely by the loan it gives to the company or any company (the happiness in Serbia) obliges the company to work so positively to be able to simply repay the loan and return it. So, here I am finishing, the funds were used during 2001, which was given in the report, and definitely what I have said and what the DSS and its representatives have been saying for a good seven months, that certain reform laws, at least the most priority ones, are late, not that the DSS allegedly gave up and went into opposition and disowned the authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18342	The People's Messenger Petar Petrovic has the word, followed by the People's Messenger Goran Cvetanovic; and there is another reported one, this is the People's Messenger Bozidar Vucurovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18343	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, honored guests from the gallery, as said, and I will only repeat, the MP group of the SSJ will not support this proposal of a law on the granting of a loan to this bank, not to quote the whole bill, for the reasons that have been heard here; I will only state a few more reasons. At first, however, I would ask the government, or the representatives of the government, who are here: is this a precedent that is now in front of the National Assembly and before us MPs that guarantees are being given for this loan, as we heard, where the EPS has already taken and spent half, so we should now retroactively give guarantees or future loans that any of Serbia's public enterprises will request and receive from some international bank, the Government of the Republic of Serbia will guarantee? It's on one side. On the other hand, whether this bank has so much confidence in the EPS system when it seeks a guarantee from the state, or the Republic of Serbia, for 51m euros, which is if I am not mistaken for the circus of 100m marks. Isn't EPS worth a little more than 100 million marks? The question arises why - this loan now and at this time? We all expected that at this very time the funds would come from those promised six billion dollars, and these 100 million marks, so that's one drop in the sea of those six billion dollars. What do we need a loan for if it's the money they're waiting for, that's what they're supposed to get into Serbia already? On the other hand, whether in this way the Republic of Serbia does not want to continue to participate in talks, negotiations and efforts to collect at least part of the damage suffered by the EPS in NATO destruction in 1999. On the other hand, why is this loan, which will be spent on the recovery and development of the EPS, simply did not ask the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which is also a function that should help this country in transition, or help to restore and develop them. The question arises, why in this case is the borrower of the EPS, not the state, if the state already provides a guarantee, and the public undertaking is the EPS. The state could have been a credit carrier, so it doesn't need a guarantee, just money to focus on the EPS' recovery and development funds. The question arises as to why the state, if already advocates and guarantees for this loan, does not advocate obtaining loans that will focus on primary production? We know very well that the complexes of black metallurgy, colored metallurgy, agricultural complexes are in very difficult condition, that production in these areas and in these segments of the economy has stopped and why loans are not taken to focus on these parts of the economy, so that from the profit created there is financed by the reconstruction and development of the Elektroprivred Serbia. That way most workers in this country would be much better. The Serbian Unity Party and its MPs are wondering who will be returning this money in 2004. Do the gentlemen who now sign credit agreements think that in 2004 in the regular elections, which are then to be held, they will win again, so they will repay the loans? I think they're wrong, that other people will come then, who will take this obligation to repay the loans that are now being taken, and I think it will be between the Serbian Unity Party. As announced, we have a dramatic increase in electricity prices in spring. So, it was known in advance that this loan would be taken or already taken, and it would have to replace the money missing in Serbia's Elektroprivred, meaning through the price of electricity, because as we know the current price of electricity, as the leaders in Serbia's Elektroprivred, say, does not cover free reproduction. From what I'm told, I will repeat again, the Serbian Unity Party cannot support this proposal for a loan guarantee by the Serbian state.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18344	The word has a folk MP Goran Cvetanovic, followed by a National MP, Bozidar Vucurovic. National MP Bozidar Vucurovic is the last registered speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18345	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, do you give guarantees to the Republic of Serbia for the task of the Public Enterprise of the Elektroprivreda of Serbia? Obviously there are several aspects of this problem, and I'll try to explain it to you. The board of directors of Elektroprivrede Serbia discussed the contract in November 2001, in co-operation with the Ministry of Energy and the Ministry of Finance. What they were considering is obviously only known to them, but not to the Serbian public. The logical question arises: should the National Assembly exercise control over the government or be unreserved, without verification and without any insight into its plans support all government activities? The SRS will not support such activities, because if everything is transparent, the question is why is it hidden from the MPs and the public from the entire EPS situation lab, as well as the contract itself? Obviously, several questions are questionable: when the contract was signed, the contract was contained, and who signed the contract? The only question is, is it even a state secret? Does the urgency of putting such a bill on the agenda, which sedrastically violates the Rules of Procedure, cover exactly the answers to these questions? Taking a loan from Germany with a standard interest and buying German equipment for a remont mine and power plant is obviously a good job for Germany, and whether it is a good job for Serbia, the answer should be sought from the government as well. The terms of the loan itself indicate that it is not a special loan, because the interest is equal to the valid market interest of the European Monetary Union for long-term loans, with a tight interest rate. A tight interest rate is paid in case no interest is paid in time, so your pitching is obviously not appropriate and adequate. When asked where the government is on the EPS situation, the answer should obviously be given by authorised ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia. They also know the answer to the question whether about 30,000 people who are now working in the EPS system will lose their jobs thanks to the work of the current government? The questions themselves are as follows: is the mortgage given, is this German bank already the future owner of the EPS? I think it is better for the government to use good relations with the West and that the $5.5 billion money, which according to their banks, is returned to the citizens of Serbia, and this money would make Serbia self-execution of all systems in the country and start processes of economic production. Does the government have a vision and a specific programme of how the EPS will repay the loan? I am responsibly saying that this contract will also affect the new electricity collection, which is now the most expensive in Europe, and we ourselves know that the citizens of Serbia have reached the lower threshold of social sustainability and that the current price of electricity is enormously high for their standard. And you know for yourself that there's an announcement of a raise of about 50% of the current for a lower tariff, and above all to catch a wide layer of the population. Because the heating season is slowly ending, and then it takes that poor layer of people who use a lower tariff to raise them by 50% of the price of electricity, in order to increase the government's budget for Serbia. People's MPs have no record of whether the government was able to find a more favourable loan, but I do not think more favourable than the commission they receive from these loans, but more favourable for the citizens of Serbia, who must return this loan with their work, as well as many before, without their real desire to be so. I want on one case to compare the government's effective functioning in the past term and the current DOS government. A divorce facility on Bezian hair was hit with six "tahavk" rockets during NATO bombing, and the former government returned the facility to its original state in just two days. The current government is obviously not able to even account for spent electricity adequately to register and a valid electricity bill to deliver to the consumer. You yourself know that December and January bills are 30 and 50,000 dinars and that literally within a few months they are registered, so the accounts are inadequate and Serbian citizens are certainly not able to pay those bills, which are not real.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18346	The word has a National MP, Bozidar Vucurovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18347	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I very much believe in this loan, I very much believe in the arrangements that our government makes, but imagine, Philip doesn't believe, and Philip is seven years old and he's asking what the credit is. I tell him - that's when you give someone money, then give him back and give him some more. He says -- so these guys said nothing should come back. And I say, not just to you, but to the whole people. Today, ladies and gentlemen, we are deciding on the guarantee the state of Serbia will give to German firms on the loan they will receive from the German bank. Then German companies will buy parts and equipment for the refurbishment of our power plants in the markets of Russia, the Czech Republic, France and Croatia. Most of the equipment and parts in our country are located in these countries and then the interest will not be equal to the valid market interest of the European Union, but, according to Filip and his society, the bank will still scratch a little bit of the company, and these companies will scratch a little bit with the price of Russian, Czech, French and Croatian parts and equipment, so it will cost us a lot. But whatever. We've got a minister to get us a budget credit system and I can't resist it, but every time he shows up in this assembly, I sing a song, with an apology to my restful friend Duško Radovic for using his metrics: "The three countries crossed over and three countries ran over, and three seas sailed, until they caught him, the terrible God-derick, the only one in the world; this God knows he plays, this God knows how to play, he knows how to kick...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18348	Mr. Vuchurovic, please return to the topic of the agenda, if you can in verses - yes, but only the topic to be...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18349	... This is the topic. The minister gave us this law, ma'am. "And only the mouse is afraid, the fearsome God dericoce, the only one in the world; this God knows how to walk, knows how to mind, can eat, can drink, and speak French... (President: Mr. Vukurovic, I warn you to return to the agenda topic. )......................................................................................................... God's fearsome dericox, the only one in the world.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18350	There are serious state affairs here, and it is not Minister Bozidar Djelic, but there is a concrete bill. [[Sagar.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18351	The voices -- how do you know it's him. Yes? "Then they gave it to us, to create a credit system, to take away some money; to deceive us, to deceive us, and to speak French, the fearsome God dericoce, the only one in the world; to take away our interest, a little right away, and to the wars, for loans...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18352	Mr. Vuchurovic, I give you a warning, based on Articles 102 and 103, after the warning I gave you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18353	... For the loans he gave us using our money... Ma'am, about this loan, says God - it has to. It's got to be...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18354	Mr. Vukurovic, I give you a second warning on the basis of Articles 102 and 103. ...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18355	They will have to go to the elections; then they will cross, and then they will run over, and then they will sail, and we will hunt him down, the fearsome God, the one in the world.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18356	I pray for peace. I'm just asking you to remember where you are. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the principled search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president or representatives of the parliamentary groups who did not exercise this right under Article 89. Rules of Procedure. Here's a word from MP Branislav Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18357	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I only went out for a few minutes to repeat the key positions of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, because several MPs of the ruling coalition assured us of the importance of the "Electroprivred Serbia" overhaul. To be clear: Members of the Socialist Party of Serbia and how they support investments in "Electro-price of Serbia", because this is an investment in a key business branch that allows other businesses to develop. It is an investment in an economic branch that has also suffered the embargo, carried it out on its back and suffered during NATO aggression, when the power plants of Serbia were destroyed. Investment in Elektroprivreda Serbia is an investment in our economy, because our production capacities, both for equipment and for construction. Therefore, we support every investment in the economy, especially in the electricity sector. We support investment and these foreign loans, and we support private capital investments from this country. But this bill, in order to give guarantees, requires us to see what we give guarantees. I'm asking Minister Djelic, who I assume will take his word for after me, to explain to us what kind of contract it is. We are now from one MP who is employed in the electricity industry who has heard that it is a contract that is already living. A contract where 50% of the value was already realised last year. A contract by which equipment was already purchased from Germany. Is that true? You're asking us to give guarantees, and we didn't get a contract based on whom guarantees are given. Secondly, if it's purely commercial business, if it's financing in Germany economic production, where German products and equipment are produced, so we can import it, why the commercial banks and the National Bank didn't give guarantees. Why the Republika Srpska Assembly will provide a guarantee for a loan that does not employ any capacity for the economy of Yugoslavia. Therefore, dear gentlemen, we absolutely support credit arrangements, we support investment in the economy, investment in economic capital, we support and we understand the importance of investment in "Electro-priority of Serbia", but we cannot vote for this bill until we are given answers and we see the contract based on which it was done. Who did this contract arrangement? Do these contracts employ the economic capacities of Serbia or not? These are key questions to which we expect an answer to be identified. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18358	People's MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the DOS parliamentary group, spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18359	Mrs. Micic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I think this debate has shown that this vote does not actually help "Electroprivred Serbia" but helps our society to get over the logic that follows the thinking of "the worse it gets". Well, let the Elektroprivreda of Serbia fail if that means the DOS will fail, and we will return to power. It's the same logic that destroyed this society, through thinking, to bring it all down, but let us stay. We did not receive reasoned answers to the kind of criticisms and issues we faced through the debate, which those criticising this kind of credit arrangement had to offer. So the first question was the expertise and competence of this kind of work. It is clearly said that it stemmed from the engagements and work of the Coal Production Directorate, Directorates for Electricity Production and Investment Directorates. There are no DOS political representatives, nor do I believe that there are political representatives of any parliamentary party. There are people who spend their whole lives working in this EPS, people who face daily problems and people who know very well that everything that has been the subject of our conversation today has nothing to do with "Electroprivred Serbia", or the desire to change there, but rather, with the desire to stop this process of change, and this society destroys on that path back to a normal civilized world community, where what we are talking about today is not a precedent but a rule. No one said why and based on which he claims Serbia has the highest price for electricity. In Serbia, the kilowatt hour costs 2 cents, in Montenegro 3.7 and in developed Europe a minimum of 5. Somebody say, based on the arguments and the fact -- where the basics are for that kind of criticism. As for reminding the world of donations and supporting what we are doing in our country at the moment, about 300m euros have been invested in the area of Elektroprivreda Srbija. True, slightly less, but we can talk about that donation sum. I would remind you that only the annual, minimum need of the "Electroprivreda of Serbia" is 500 million German marks or about 250m euros for minimal repairs. For ten years it was not done, one annual sum was invested in ten years. The disaster facing such proportions is that no one responsible for politics in this society has the right to irresponsible political views. So, the question of the contract and whether it was signed or not, at this point, has a clear and consistent response -- the Republic government, without doubting the political support that must monitor its activities, has isolated some of the funds from the Republika Srpska budget, in order to pre-deliver the kind of damage that exists under the "Electroprivreda of Serbia", calculating that this credit arrangement will be supported and therefore Serbia's parliament has no right to distance itself from such a kind of work. Because otherwise, it takes away the funds of education, health care, the police, the judiciary, all the budget users, who are crying out for that kind of help anyway. So when you talk about wanting a contract and resisting a loan like this, you are opposing the normal lives of Serbian citizens, who are being financed from the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Those who have recognized a good political field in this, must see by our vote that they slip. Serbia's assembly is the most rude place in this society, but not because of the indelicacy of 250 MPs, but because of the irresponsibility of the minority, who at all times, after all our efforts, is trying to oppose something that is in itself the inevitableness, the democratisation of our society and its democratic maturation. So no one has tried to trick parliament with this, no one has the last intention in this business. On the contrary, through the performance of Minister Djelic, you will see that all those who oppose this loan are actually those forces that think logic - better harm than good, because something will collapse, responsibility will be on the other side, and then I will make a political profit in something that alone has nothing to do with politics. [[Tomislav Nikolic requests the right to reply.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18360	There is no basis for replication, Mr. Nikolic. Do not abuse the rules of procedure and use the right to reply. You don't have the right to a replica, absolutely, you're not mentioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18361	You know very well about the regulations of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Jovanovic interpreted our performances for this speaker completely wrong. Why are you hiding behind this? He made a series of accusations exclusively at the expense of the opposition, and I recognized myself, of course; I recognized all the MPs of the SRS and misread them all; I have the right to reply, as a representative of that parliamentary group. Well, that's quite clear. I'd rather have a replica right now than say, "I've listened to an MP named Bozidar Vukurovic." I don't have the right to reply here, but this misreading of our efforts for this speaker and to remain in public a clue that we want the state to collapse, in order to drop some law - so please give the right to a replica. You have to give me the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18362	I'm sorry, Mr. Nikolic, I can't give you the right to a replica, because I don't think there's any basis, because all those who have pleaded against, and there are three parliamentary groups, so, wrongly interpreted, means they would have the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18363	I don't know, let them know if he misread them, but I know he misread the MPs of the SRS, absolutely wrong. We have no desire at all to bring down the state, we have defended the state from such people as him.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18364	Mr. Nikolic, you've reached out to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18365	So please, for ten years, I've been asking you to defend the state together, and you're staying away. I checked in with the Rules of Procedure, of course. This is where the dignity of the Assembly should be preserved. One MP can't say that some other MPs want the state destroyed, just so some law falls. The fact that you are in favour of one law, and we are against it, is not at all a sign that you are for Serbia's sake and that we are for bad Serbia. Each authority has the right to pass the laws it proposes in the National Assembly. But they object to these laws, if there is a dignity of the National Assembly, can't interpret it as a desire to completely ruin society, because where would that take us? In this assembly, which Mr Jovanovic said was a rude place, and you did not warn him, Mrs Micic, you did not want to guard the dignity of the National Assembly. This assembly is a very decent place, except the opposition's arguments seem to be burning the ears of those in power. Well, hold on to that. You've been in opposition too long, and while you were in opposition, you used an even sharper vocabulary, expressed yourself even more harshly about power, had the media on which you brought it all up, had the Assembly where you said it all. How come you now have the right to call the discussions of opposition MPs for this pay phone rudeness? Where would that take us, Mrs. Micic? Mr. Jovanovic said earlier that they had sold the cement stores cheaper, unlike we would have taken, if we had sold the more expensive ones.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18366	Mr. Nikolic, you've reached out to the Rules of Procedure, you've exceeded your time, you're not talking about the Rules of Procedure, you have two measures, two measures previously made.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18367	I have reported to the Rules of Procedure to draw your attention to the need to safeguard the dignity of the National Assembly, Mrs. Micic, while informing the citizens, if they didn't already know - is there one company in Serbia where DOS is not in power? Who wants to convince us that the EPS isn't in power? So you're changing your DOS people to bring in even more DOS people, and here you tell us something else.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18368	Are any of the other representatives, or the president of the parliamentary groups, answering for a word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a principled search and putting to the vote the draft law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia, creditation für jiederaufbau, for the task of the Public Enterprise "Electropriority of Serbia", in principle. For 134, against 62, the abstentions were not voted 13 out of 209 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by majority, in principle. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. Since amendments have not been submitted to the proposal for this law before I conclude the particulars search, does the Proposer's representative want a word? He has the word Finance Minister, Mr Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18369	I'd just like to answer a few questions we've heard during this debate. First, I'd like to say it's been very pleasant to hear for the first time in 12 years that this house is discussing one guarantee. This means that the executive power must finally account when part of the executive authority, or public undertakings, is to be in charge, and this, either directly or indirectly, can be sought by budgetary means. And secondly, that means we're getting loans again, and that's not the last time, as one MP has already mentioned; in front of this house there will be new credit arrangements, especially the European Bank for Reconstruction, and after these 100 million marks, as you can see, for the EPS, it will come to the agenda and 100 million euros, meaning twice as much as the European Bank for Development, and that will be another incentive, another side injection, as someone said, for the revitalisation of the EPS. I would just like to say a few words - first, on the first question: is this credit arrangement favourable to the EPS, is it favourable to the state? The second question is, does this credit arrangement involve us in some obligations that may be harmful to the EPS or to the state? The third question was a matter of control -- who's going to control whether this money is being spent on purpose. The fourth question, finally, is the question -- how did we get to this arrangement and whether it was all reflected in the right way. The first thing -- when you have a credit arrangement in front of you for 11 years and eight months, with a start of three years and two months, these are the arrangements that, acting alone, we couldn't get. It is simply that our external financial situation is not yet resolved to the extent that we can, either issue bonds, or at least get loans on such a long time, and that someone else, in this case, the German Bank for Development, does not intervene or assist our performance on the capital market. As for interest, as I mentioned, instead of being seen in this arrangement as a country that has its specific risk, such as. There are Bulgaria, Romania and other countries, which withdraw interest rates that are not less than 10% to 12% on an annual basis at this time for these countries, and we through this arrangement get a rating that has a German Development Bank, which means AAA, the largest possible figure, and comes to this, the German government gives the funds that will reduce, the entire cost of that loan, by an additional 14%. Therefore, effective interest which will be fixed several days after your vote, in the event that you vote for this bill, should be about 4.3 to 4.4% on an annual basis, well below any medium-term market interest of the European Union, as someone noted, far below what they would get as a country, that we performed on our own. And by the way, this is very convenient. The second question was a matter of obligation - do we take on any obligations that are harmful to our country? First of all, I'd like to say that this arrangement does not oblige the EPS to buy German goods in any case. That's not supposed to, but that doesn't mean that one part of this won't be used for that stuff. Simply because over a decade of developing this great, someone had just said the largest system in this country, used parts and equipment from that country. By the way, we shouldn't be surprised if it comes to that. I'd just like to say that, of course, there was no obligation to be taken over any EPS sales, any privatisation. This topic is not current, nor will it be for many years. First the EPS has to get on their feet and then we'll see what we have to do. As for the control of these funds, I think the control we've already established last year for the repairs has shown its good side. In many cases, the price was much lower because it went to competition everywhere where it was possible and very strict control. It was necessary to have five signatures in the EPS, up to the top of the EPS, in order to verify a financial arrangement with the supplier, and then had to bear two ministerial signatures, Ministers of Mining and Energy and Finance and Economy, in order to be certified and forwarded. Not only that, the money didn't go into the EPS but it went directly to suppliers; in order not to get lost in some mazes, it went exactly to those who needed to be paid for the remonts. It was, I think, the right decision at this point. But that won't be all. Of course, the resolution ministry will monitor the further course of this arrangement, the budgetary inspection of the Ministry of Finance and Economy will follow the further course of this arrangement, and it is certain that there will be control over the years to come, to see how it has been spent. Not only that, as you know, parliament will have a supreme accounting court that will monitor his operations on his behalf and exercise control. Finally, the lender himself, since it is a development bank, does not want it to be spent unintendedly. They will further control whether everything was according to what was... and not for German goods, Mr. Vukurovic, but for those purposes that were intended. As for the Industry Committee, which is responsible for this, we expect, as has already been announced in the discussion, there will be additional controls. Now, when we move in the way this arrangement came about, you'll see that here, as much as some try to make a name, some mystery, it's absolutely gone, it doesn't have to be, it's not a state secret, nor should it be. This contract was signed after previous legal actions by the EPS and the government, which authorised persons to sign where they should, the possibility of carrying out this contract. He was signed on October 26th last year. The only reason he wasn't here, in front of you, is because this house was also considering the Labour Act, the Budget Law. January was a good piece of work, and then there was an omnibus law and the Law on Local Self-law. However, the EPS situation was expected to take effect. By the way, you can see that this money isn't working yet. He's waiting for your vote today to fix the interest and get the money. Meanwhile, awaiting such an arrangement, the Republic of Serbia's budget decided to lend a short-term loan for a billion and a half. There were two options -- either this house voted for this bill and then part of it, as many saw correctly, would be to refinance that short-term loan that was only there as a bridge to get this money, or not. In that case, we should have looked for alternative sources, much harder, as someone had just said -- in that case, we should have asked some other budget users and some other sources to settle beyond the necessary need. As far as the contract itself is concerned, he has about 45-50 pages. Let you, through a perfectly normal way, request that contract through the board of directors and get it. You'll get it and there's no secret. He shouldn't be a secret. It's a public enterprise that belongs to 100 percent of our republic and for big jobs, if parliament thinks it's in his interest to know what the contract is, there's no problem, you'll get the contract. To conclude, it seems to me today that this is the first-ever credit arrangement. This shows that in another segment we broke up with one past. I'd say this is another symbolic part of what's going on in the EPS, in our society. With this and this way of deciding about EPS, it's over with funding that only a few people in the country know about, and they're on commercial terms, and it sells fog that they're very favourable to the state and leave holes in public enterprises, as is now the case with EPS, NIS and many other public enterprises. It's over with the bitangs that took 30 apartments and villas from taxpayers' money, those who paid for electricity. It's over with Uskokovics and others who wanted for themselves some of this, which is a public resource, which they must master. It's their place in prison, not... It's over with the mob, who smuggled coal from our spears, who then smuggled it and sold it very often at inflation prices to our budget users. This is why today, allegedly due to better functioning of the EPS and due to the end of this theft, we have much better supplies. It is over with false intermediaries who have been embezzled in key contacts and contracts, which were concluded by EPS, NIS and others, and then made commissions on some Liechtensteins, alleged intermediaries. These are over, as they said, a new place and a new way. These are transparent and very accessible public arrangements. A new place for EPS, it's revitalisation through these arrangements, through their clear revenues. New time, that time is coming and with us is the time of professional and permanent people who do their job for the benefit of all our citizens. Thank you. (Božidar Vucurovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18370	I consulted with members of the presidency and with the secretary and said the minister did not mention MP Vukurovic. (Tomislav Nikolic: Tell me, did you mention him? ) ( Bozidar Djelic: I don't remember. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. I am putting to the vote the draft law on the granting of guarantees from the Republic of Serbia, the Kreditanstalt Fir Viderufbau, for the task of the Public Enterprise "Electroprivred by Serbia", in general. For 140, against 57, the abstentions, did not vote five out of 202 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote, passed the bill, in general. As the National Assembly adopted the draft law in general, I note that, when preparing the law to be published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", the legislative committee's proposals relating to the legal technical order in the name of the Bill and in Articles 1 and 2 will be introduced into the text of the law and agreed by the legislator's representative at the session of the Legislative Committee. We move to the fourth item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on Judicial Taxes You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Petar Petrović, Dragan Marković, Milos Lukić, Živko Selaković, together Petar Cvetković and Djordje Mamula, Vladimir Garčević, together Živodarka Dacin and Toma Busetic, Nebojsa Jović, Jovan Todorovic, together Zoran Radovanović and Branko Ružić, Rade Bajic, Ljubomir Mucic, Arsen Kurjački, Veroljub Arsić, Dragan Čelić, Goran Cvetanović, Dragoljub Stamenković, Branislav Blažić, Vitomir Plužarić, Gordana Pop-Lazić, Milorad Mirčić, Lazar Marjanski, Stevan Kesejić, Miroljub Veljković, Bozidar Vužić, Aleksandar Vučić, Bozidar Vuurović, Srboljubovljanović, Srbovljanović, Miljanović, Slavanović, Zlatović, Zlatović, Dragović, Zlatović, Zlatović, Zlatović and Zlatović. You have received notice from MP Arsen Kuryacki to withdraw the amendment to Article 6. It's a bill of law. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance, the Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee. You also received the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. I'm opening a principled search. The applicant's representative is not present. Where does it say he has to be present? It may be, but it doesn't have to be. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) Here you are, MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group, first application for a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18371	Everything can be done in this new democracy. It's a unique case that we're going to start a search of the bill and that we don't have any representatives. I understand that in the course of the bill's review, we don't have a proposing representative, but let's begin, so we don't get the introduction word of the legislator, that he's sitting somewhere watching the transfer, waiting for what the MPs say, and then he comes out to answer our stories. He's always got that right by the Rules of Procedure. He gets a word whenever he asks for it and says as much as he wants. He's the first to speak today, and that's what the Rules of Procedure says. He has to, we have to stop the work of the National Assembly, we have to get a proposal representative to see what he wants, what his goal is, what he achieves. Don't finish the wounded National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia anyway. Please, if you respect yourself a little bit as the President of the National Assembly, if you do not respect the MPs, make a decision or take a break or stop working today, we will vote on that, and we will get a representative of the legislator in this room. Otherwise, any further work is pointless. I'm asking you, do you want to change something in your attitude or not, so I know whether to talk about the bill or not?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18372	You called for a word in the principle debate, as vice president of the SRS parliamentary group. So your choice is whether or not you will fill in your message box with content. That's what the chairman doesn't get mixed up in.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18373	You'd be running auctions phenomenally. You can talk all day and say nothing.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18374	And you'd have been through a lot at those auctions.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18375	Now we've been contacted here by someone who's sent us a bill on court fees and that's the minister who promises judges a 1,000-mark salary. If you're going to pay the judges 1,000 Marks with a bill like this, if you're going to pay the police 1,000 Marks with fines like that, if we're going to pay extra soon and medical services so doctors can have 1,000 Marks, I'm asking you who's going to be able to fund it all in this country. I remember very well in 1994 and 1997 when the levels of court taxis were changed, when their increases were done in the same way, MPs of the opposition, and among them one who was no longer an MP of the DS, is now somewhere in the Vojvodina Assembly, but I saw him there the other day when he defended the omnibus law, he said what I was saying then, but I did not give up on that attitude, and you seem to have given up. When you increase court fees this much, when you reduce the basics on which you will apply, and even to the most banal disputes, then you force citizens to serve the institution of self-help. It's obvious that living in our country isn't that easy. At least so much that we can say that the wages have been increased, and apparently the cost of life is going in a dizzy manner, it's obvious that we can't achieve what we receive and take home, that we live the way we lived before you came to power. Exact data, institutes dealing with this, even entire consumer associations that had to be formed, images of people in containers, only now not more those who were there five years ago, but some new ones, are proof that in Serbia, at the very least, lives twice as much as they have lived until your arrival in power. If that's the case, if a man can't accomplish anything in court anymore, and that doesn't cost his family years because he's gonna have to pay back some debts, you're obviously forcing us to exorcise justice ourselves. From there to the hiduchi is a very short journey. Of course, the courts are full of cases, but look at the... (Borivoj Katić, from the place, how are you not ashamed? ..... I would ask you not to sleep, Mrs. Comic, but to listen to a little bit of what these DS-domains of yours have to do, so they don't warn me when I throw, I'm not asking you for anything else, just the same treatment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18376	In accordance with Article 84(2)... (Tomislav Nikolic:...) Where and mentioned. )......................................................................................................... I hereby inform the People's MP that during the time I chaired the National Assembly sessions and when this job was entrusted to me by Mr Marsican and Mrs Micic, I have not given any notice to any of the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18377	Can I speak now?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18378	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18379	Thank you very much. The efficiency of courts is far below all European standards. Keep insisting on that. You're the one who got involved in the business that you do in all the businesses. You've appointed your presidents of the court and you think you've finished your work on one of the most responsible branches of government. You mean, that's the way, our presidents are the courts, we're some interns as judges and we've hired, now we're going to cut off the people's high court fees, so we're going to have extra funding, and the law's changed so that these funds can be used to fund courts, work courts. Now our judges will have a salary of 1,000 marks. I ask you, what will happen to the people? It is true that Serbian citizens, individuals, like to be tried. Individuals don't make the law. The law is made according to most. In every municipal or county court, everyone knows people who are being tried, who have a lot of litigation, a lot of hearings, and they're already branded, almost as lawyers. It's not a feature of the Serbian people. We don't like to judge. We don't like dealing with the law at all. There's a situation where it has to be done. What, when it comes to inheritance or some banal appearance in court, you all need a lot of money because a new power has come. Secondly, if you bring these high court fees to a reduction in the number of lawsuits, what are you going to finance the courts from? If the people stop, it may be your desire for the people to stop showing up before the courts, but from what will you finance the work of the courts? Everything must have a measure. And the burden of judges and the amount of costs that citizens will pay for the service that the state is doing, because courts are dealing with what citizens can solve among themselves, they can even agree on, but it has to be certified by a court signature, by some solution or by a court ruling. And you're stuck that the fees haven't changed here four, here's the fifth year; so what if they haven't been changed? Does that really have to change, does it have to be this much? Yesterday was one value you're paying for anything, and tomorrow you're going to pay three to five, up to 50 times that, and is that how the state regulates it? Is it a state without inflation, is it a state that this year with 20% inflation is going to spend God's life and introduce them into some better and better life? It's not God's, it's not. If you raise all the costs to the citizens by March of the month, and you chase to burden the people until March of the month to make the entire year run from it, it points to the fact that this year is going to cost us a lot. The law on court fees was once returned to the motionary only a few months ago. Convince me now that the same bill should pass now, and two months ago it shouldn't have passed. Two months ago, before the MPs came forward, before the MPs' speeches in this assembly, for this speaker, the minister withdrew the draft law on court fees. What happened in the meantime that changed his mind? We've worked out some DOS relations. This is sufficient evidence that the people suffer and that they have consequences for the relationship in DOS. Then when the system fell apart, when the DSS lost the president of the National Assembly, the minister also lost the bill on court fees. Now when the DSS slowly, driven by whips, whistles, who knows what they don't, enters a barn called DOS, now a draft law on court fees can be found on the agenda again. We'll just sit in the benches, the people will sit next to the television, watch and wait if they've come to terms with whether they've had a fight, whether a trial will cost 30,000 dinars, or it'll cost 1,000 dinars. Will, I know there's no transmission, you say it well, I'm done, I haven't even come out for television, but you from the Democratic Party to know, there's no transmission because Kostunica from the DSS is talking, and it's not a success for you, I don't think it's a big success for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18380	Do any of the presidents of the parliamentary groups or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? MP Zoran D. Nikolic. Has the Secretary of the Assembly been given authority? Yes, it is. MP Zoran D. Nikolic, representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18381	At the end of October of last year, we discussed an almost identical bill, and then the government decided to withdraw this proposal, first of all, I think, because of the arguments that the MPs expressed behind this speaker, and probably because of the lack of vote to support this bill. But these were the reasons for the government to come up with the same proposal again, so our relationship with these issues is the same. I can say in front of the SPS Parliament Club that we will not support this bill, as we did not support it even in October of last year, especially because we believe it is not suitable for this current economic and social moment in which we live. It was an assessment that we gave a few months ago, and I think that, because of everything that's happened, it's even more in force to date, because we're witnessing that the standard of citizens, the rise in electricity prices, food and other essential elements of life, is really ruined, so this growth in the cabs will be a limiting factor in the achievement of one significant right of the citizens they have before the courts. And it's not just citizens, it's our economies. We are witnessing that a large number of economic operators are in the bankruptcy process, regular liquidation, now and in that part of the bill there are quite a rise in the level of court fees that discourage these organisations and their creditors to initiate bankruptcy proceedings, regular liquidation procedures, to exercise some of their rights in the business courts. I think that this bill of law will also have severe repercussions to the economic life of our country, which we see is not going as it is being said. What I said last time, I think it's still true. When Serbia set up its fiscal system in 1990, according to the reputation of some European countries, we were closest to the Portuguese system; then, in terms of the legal nature of the court taxis, it was taken the view that it should be the spending of the body, meaning the judicial authority in a particular case. However, with this increase and this level of court fees, we leave this approach and take the court fee now as the equivalent of the rights that the party will receive from the work of the judicial authority. This means that in relatively simple things and relatively simple items, such as the legacy with one heir, if that legacy is large, the court fee will be large because the value of the dispute is high. Therefore, I believe that this shift in the legal nature of the court tax is not good, is not appropriate for the current economic moment and will deter citizens from exercising their rights before the court. I think it's for one state, and we all strive to be a legal state, best when citizens are stimulated to exercise their rights in an institutional way, means in front of state authorities, in front of the judiciary. Like this, I'm afraid this height will destimulate many to seek justice before the court. The second part where I would like to say a few words; we have done one significant thing from October to this day, with great consensus in this House, we have passed a package of law on justice, where we all agreed that this system law on justice should allow the independent position of the judiciary for one far away years in the future. I think we all agree on that. However, it is certain that we have not done much to improve the material position of the judiciary since then. We have received an encouraging statement from the minister, which is certainly well welcomed in the judiciary and outside the judiciary, that the salaries of judges, or employees, will be 1,000 marks, but also the fact that the statement has not yet been realised. We hope that this statement will be realised as soon as possible, because our judges and our prosecutors deserve to have at least that kind of pay, under the circumstances in which they live and work. We will agree, the fundamental independence of the judiciary does not exist without the economic independence of the holders of judicial functions. We still don't have that economic independence. It would also be good if we applied perhaps some of the experiences we had in the past, which did not last long, where, for example, a court tax was motivated by a court in which the tax was realized to be one percent of the tax paid in court. It does not go into the budget, so from the budget at the Justice Department, so that the Justice Department is going back to court, but it is known that 10% or 20% of the court's fees in the area of the court remain in the court, that it decides what to do with it, in accordance with the rules. I can say that this practice, which lasted unfortunately for a short, perhaps two years and was abandoned, showed good results and that many courts had really materially and technically equipped themselves for those two years, that they were not in all these 10 years before and after; so we expected that in these changes of the law there would be room for such solutions, although we have a promise that court fees would go into the budget, but that it would be used purposely to improve the material position. However, when funds enter the budget, then the state always counts on what is more painful and where is more necessary, so it happens that the money from the court taxis is also directed to other positions, so that after a month, two or three are returned to the Ministry of Justice, but it is not the same as when the income is collected today and is realised in the court itself today. That's why we think that there was plenty of time for the motionor, these four months, that some of the suggestions that were given were incorporated into this bill. We have to admit that something has been accepted, that the height of each court taxi has been reduced, so that's four times now. But given that in 1997, when the last increase was made, it was a pretty big blow to citizens' standards, then this indexation now taking place, the blow is somehow coming back to life. I am sure that many citizens will not be able to achieve their constitutional rights, which they want and intend to do before the court, because of this inappropriate relationship offered to us by this bill. That's why I think we socialists can't stand behind one of these concepts that's being offered.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18382	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18383	According to Article 95, the President of the National Assembly interrupts the work of the National Assembly when it determines the lack of quorum at the meeting of the National Assembly until the quorum is secured. Obviously, the view in the hall and the view of the electronic system, that there is no quorum in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-18-0.u18384	I ask the MPs to insert identification cards to determine if we have a quorum. I am informing the MPs that we will continue work tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, today's session is attended by 125 MPs. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their cards into the parliamentary units. I find that by applying the electronic system, there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. We are happy to begin by notifying the absence of the MPs. I would like to inform you that the following MPs will be absent: Milan Radulović, Stevan Lilić, Dragoslav Bošković, Zaharija Trnavčević, Vladimir Dobrosavljevic, Dragan Jočić, Djordje Čuquas, Vojislav Doshen, Pal Shandor, Ljubisa Djokovic, Kermeci Karolj, Ratimir Svirčević, Dragor Hiber, Slobodan Radulović, Branislav Grubački, Branislav Pomorijski and in the afternoon Milutin Salesnović. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. Also, according to members 83 and 84. National Assembly's Rules of Procedure, National Assembly President Natasa Micic announced that representatives of the People's Movement "Resist" and representatives of the Association of Families Kidnapped and Missing Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija were invited to this session. We move to the fourth item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on Judicial Taxes I remind you that in principle, MPs Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group and Zoran Nikolic, representative of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, participated. The words were reported by Justice Minister and local self-government Mr. Vladan Batic, a proposing official. Here you go.
