ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22660	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I am opening the session of the 5th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002. To determine the quorum, please insert your identification cards into the MPs. I find that the application of the electronic system has established that we have a quorum and that, therefore, we can continue to work. I would like to inform you that they have announced the absence of the following MPs: Zaharija Trnavcevic, Jelena Milenkovic-Orlić, Predrag Stojanović, Zoran Boskovic, Slobodan Pavlovic and Nikola Kostic - in the morning. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. Also, according to members 83 and 84. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that I invited representatives of the Centre for Free Elections and Democracy, representatives of the National Democratic Institute, representatives of the Association of University Teachers and Teachers of Serbia - Kolubara Section and representatives of USAID to this session. I welcome the guests present. Since the minutes of the Fourth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia were delivered to you in 2002, on 2 July and 4 July 2002, before the beginning of the session, the adoption of the minutes will be made subsequently in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with a call from the Fifth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002, which was convened at the request of a group of 105 MPs of the DOS Group, pursuant to Article 79(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 162. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have been submitted to you for the maintenance of the Fifth Extraordinary Session, with the agenda set out in that request. In accordance with Article 80(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I hereby inform you that I have convened this session within a period of seven days because of the obligation for the National Assembly to adopt a law on broadcasting, amending and supplementing the law in the field of justice and the decision on the termination of functions and the choice of legal holders. As you could see, for the Fifth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002, the following Dn e n i d: 1. Proposal for a Law on Broadcasting, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 2. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Regulation of Courts, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Judges, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Seats and Areas of Courts and Public Prosecutors, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the High Council of Justice, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 6. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Prosecutor's Office, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 7. In this regard, the Court of Justice’s decision to suspend the functions and selection of legal holders, which were submitted by the Committee on Justice and Administration and the High Council of Justice, 8 / 8 Proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Committee on Reconstruction and Development of Sremski Karlovac, which was submitted by MP Ivan Andric, chairman of the Committee on Culture and Information of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Please, the president of the DOS parliamentary group, Mr Cedomir Jovanovic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22661	Ms. Micic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, in accordance with Article 86(3), I propose that we conduct a single search on the next items of the agenda - 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7. These are the items of the agenda that are closely linked to the laws in the field of justice, which will be completed with changes and additions, and given that we adopted them in a single search, I think that because of the integrity of the debate, it is necessary that this kind of debate be carried out. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22662	I put to the vote the motion of the president of the DOS parliamentary group to carry out a joint, principled search, by points - 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7. I ask the Members of Parliament to make a statement by voting on this proposal. I conclude the vote: For 111 against 21, a abstentioned one, did not vote seven, out of 140 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has made a decision adopting the proposal of the president of the DOS parliamentary group, MP Cedomir Jovanovic, to carry out a joint principled search on points 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7. The committees, if they have not already done so, shall submit their reports during the session. With this in mind, only one notice - a session of the Legislative Committee will be held at 1400 hours in the downstairs hall. We're going to work on the agenda. First item of the agenda: - Proposal for a RADIUSION LAW You received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: together Petar Petrović, Milos Lukić and Adam Urošević, Ivan Andrić, Velimir Simonović, Zlata Đerić; jointly Milos Nešović, Branko Ružić and Rajko Baralić, together Milos Nešović, Joca Arsić and Milan Stanković; together Rajko Baralić, Branko Ružić, Joca Arsić and Radojko Petrović, together Živodarka Dacin, Ljubomir Mucić and Rade Bajic; together Dusan Cvetković, Milan Janković and Hranislav Perić, Branislav Kovačević, together Marko Petrović, Zoran Ća Ćić, Zlata Đerić, Miodrag Stamenković and Radić Jic Jic; together Toma Buštic, Joca Arsić, Milostin Ković, Milošović and Srešten Mitrić Mitrović, Živić, Radan Žal Žal Žal Žarović, Žal Žarić and Žarić Žarić, Žarić, Žal Žal Žarić Žarić, Žarić, Žarić, Žarić Žarić, Žarić Žarić Žarić, Žarić, Žal Žal Žal Žarić and Žarić. Amendments which, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, will be made until the opening of the draft law in principle will be sent to you during the session. You have received reports from the Committee on Culture and Information and the Legislative Committee. At the meeting of the Committee on Culture and Information, the opinion was singled out by a member of that committee, MP Joca Arsic. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to submit a list of registered speakers to this agenda point. In accordance with Article 136(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Does the motionary's representative, Professor Dr. Zarko Korac, Deputy Prime Minister, want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22663	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of Parliament, the law you have before you, the law on broadcasting is one of the system laws that introduces us into modern times in terms of electronic media technology, but also in terms of democratisation of the way we decide in this area, and the way we control work in this area. The law you have before you has been done very intensely for the last year. A large number of public debates were held and a very large number of media people, and others interested, were able to participate in these talks. The law you have before you is, in a sense, historical law. I would like to point out to you the fact that Serbia has never had such a law in history, that this area of electronic media has been regulated by one law, the founding act of RTS since 31 July 1991, in which only about a dozen introductory provisions have been applied to broadcasting in general. So this is the first law in Serbia's history. The law aims to depolitise this area, to democratically transform it and regulate it in general. You know that at this point in Serbia practically this area is not clearly regulated enough, or is not even regulated properly at all, and thanks to this, a large number of electronic media today in Serbia exist, which are beyond any legal, but also social, economic and any other control. The fundamental intention of this law is to give up and to prevent the direct influence of politics on electronic media. This applies primarily in the way the license for the work of private radios and TV stations is granted, but also to the autonomous operation of RTS, or RT Novi Sad, which should be transformed into a public service. In order to achieve this, this law primarily establishes a new institution, which is called the Republic Broadcasting Agency here. I must say that the establishment and establishment of a republican broadcasting agency means the introduction into our practice of a completely new body, which has never existed before. I think there is great awareness that this body will have broad and strong powers and therefore, I suppose, in our public, especially with people who are connected to the media, this much attention is given to how this agency is formed, unfortunately, slightly less specific legal provisions, which also largely determine the composition and way of selecting members of this agency. This agency has the property of a legal person, which makes it an independent legal entity, and the jurisdiction and authority given by this law, the bill, the composition, the position and the way in which the body is elected, ensures that it acts functionally and essentially that it acts independent of any state or any other influence. There is a lot in our public dilemma about whether this agency will be independent, and I would just like to remind you people's MPs here of those provisions that determine who cannot be a member of this agency's council. So to ensure that this is independent of politics, I remind you of Article 25. It's a bill of law. I would like to repeat to you who cannot be a member of the Council - 1) Federal MPs, MPs, MPs of the Autonomous Province Assembly, 2) elected, appointed and appointed persons in the Federal Government, Government of the Republic of Serbia, Executive Authorities of Autonomous Provinces, Ministers and their Deputys, Assistants, as well as the Heads of Special Organizational Continents, under the direct control of the Government, Executive Authorities and Other Functions, 3) Officers of Political Parties, Party Presidents, Members of the Presidency, their deputies, members of Executive and Main Committees, as well as other party officials, 4) Persons who as shareholders, shareholders, members of the Governing Body, members of Supervisory Authorities, employees, persons under contract and similar, who have an interest in legal persons engaged in the work of production or broadcasting of radio-television programmes (s), 5) persons who, members of the members of the Governing Authority, members of the not guilty of the other persons, or persons with serious or in criminal custody of the other persons, who are responsible for the criminality, or criminality of the other persons, or criminality of the members of the members of the other persons. So neither the relatives of politicians, the minister, the Prime Minister, and that's very precisely defined. I must say, there is another provision of 26 that is very important for understanding the position of members of the broadcasting agency's board. I have to read about some issues raised in public. "The members of the council are not in the advice of the authorities or organisations that have proposed them, but act independently, according to their own knowledge and conscience, in accordance with this law. "So, when the government proposes someone who has met these previous conditions, he is completely independent at the moment when he was elected, or the Assembly when he proposes. I would like to tell you that there is another measure of insurance, which is that these institutions, which means these eight, propose two candidates, of which the Serbian Parliament will choose one, so that the proposal cannot be certain of who is to be elected. So, the Assembly has the opportunity to choose each time from two proposed candidates. I hope, honourable Members of the Parliament, that you are aware of how much attention the legislator has given to ensuring that the persons who are members of the broadcasting agency's council are independent and that there is no control, political or otherwise, but that it is people who, according to their conscience, are experts in this area that we are talking about, are able to make decisions on their own and will be able to decide on their own and on their own, of course, with the control of the public to decide. I have to say that this broadcasting agency is going to have another very important function, so not only assigns a program broadcasting license, but also something that can be called the control of the broadcast program. We have never had a situation in our public so far that anyone who has been granted a permit to broadcast can put himself in a position to be suspended, or even permanently withdrawn. So, this law provides for the possibility that broadcasters, electronically, means radio and TV stations will be fined, temporarily denied permission, or permanently withdrawn, under the conditions laid down by law. I must say, for the first time in this law, something that is the spirit of modern times and, in my opinion, represents the great need of our society to sanction something called hate speech. This means insults, ethnic, religious and other, abuse of the right to a public word through electronic media, as well as abuse of child rights. So, for the first time, this law provides that a licence holder may be temporarily or permanently deprived of his license, because he constantly abuses the right to free word or abuses other rights, such as the rights of a child. So there are very clear legal provisions here, and I have to say it's going to be this agency's business. This advice will decide, which means that the advice will practically have to have something that we didn't have in a systematic sense, to follow the electronic media program. It will be a big job for this agency to find a way to exercise technical control over large media, but also on local and regional media, to see if they behave in accordance with the law. You know it's the primary job of this agency to give permission to broadcast the program. I wish, honourable MPs, to warn you that this agency is not competent to decide on technical issues of radio frequency use, it will regulate a law that follows directly behind this, which is a law on telecommunications. That law, if I may say so, also an independent body, will more assess technical conditions so that you can broadcast the program. This law regulates the content of the programme and the conditions for the broadcasting of the programme. This law stipulates that broadcasters must stick to general standard programs and I would only like to specify them. This is the right to network two or more broadcasters, for the sake of simultaneous broadcasting of programmes, the right of all broadcasters to attend events that are of interest to all citizens in the Republic, is the obligation of the broadcaster who bought the right to transfer some events to enable other interested broadcasters to make up reports of this event, the obligation to produce and broadcast programmes in their own language, the obligation to broadcast a certain amount or measures of the programme of their own production and the obligation of public broadcasting services, local and regional communities broadcasters, which are mainly in state property, to place certain broadcasting time at the disposal of independent radio and TV productions. These are also the obligations contained in this law. The second major news of this law is the conversion of RTS, and as you know, its founder is the state of Serbia, or the government of the Republic of Serbia, into public service. This includes production and broadcasting of programmes, which are of general interest to all citizens of Serbia. It is proposed, of course, that two types of public services like this exist, which are republican and provincial. What's important in this case is that public service will be regulated in a different way than before. In addition, it is envisaged in its transformation, under this law, to introduce a new institution within a public service, which has not existed so far. In addition to the Management Board, the introduction of the Programme Committee, i.e. the control of the content of the programme, is envisaged, given that the public service is in service and is in the function of all citizens of this country. In order for him to be independent, he must also have independent means of funding. It is common practice in Europe that public service, unlike commercial services, means commercial radios and TV stations, cannot accomplish only in a commercial way to do business, in other words, it will not be able to live only on advertising, sponsorship, marketing, etc. There have been proposals here by some MPs to abolish this right to public service. I must say that only two European countries do not allow their public service to broadcast such a programme, and that may have been noticed by many of you because sometimes they watch BBC, the next Swedish radio television, or public service, but these are the only two European countries that do not allow the economic part, the reduced economic part of it compared to commercial stations, and our opinion, given the poverty of citizens and their economic opportunities, is that we cannot fully transfer Serbia's citizens to the financing of public broadcasting services, and we believe that there is a need for this additional source of income. The law of course very precise regulation is in a reduced scope. In other words, the public service is financed from the subscription, but it can do something commercially, of course, in a reduced volume. What are the reasons why the public broadcasting service is financed from the subscription, given that in our public, of course, it is very common, and I assume that many MPs here will start this issue, and the reason is political, economic and financial independence of the public service. I would like to say why in Europe, or why this is one accepted solution at all. There are, of course, some countries that finance it from the budget, but it is an unusual solution and it is contrary to the recommendations of the Council of Europe and the OSCE. The reason is that the government of a country can always say - I will simplify that this month there is not enough funding in the budget, that the budget has not been filled properly, and if it is not satisfied with the public broadcasting service. The only way for public broadcasting services to be completely independent of government and politics is to have an independent source of funding, and this independent source of funding, of course, is a television subscription. What are unfavourable circumstances for us, it is on the one hand poverty of citizens, and on the other hand the fact that in NATO war our radio-television, which has not technically been invested for almost ten years, which has been fundamentally damaged, a large number of television and radio receivers have been destroyed by bombing, has also been hit by radio television by Novi Sad and you know that the building has been completely destroyed and has been shot with, unfortunately, tragic loss of human life and the buildings of Serbia's Radio-Television in Aberdar Street. In other words, we are starting from worse positions than those that have transformed their state-owned radio-television into Eastern Europe in sub-Communist countries. In fact, we have also destroyed this materially, or broadcasting service, and it is up to the citizens to help rebuild that broadcasting service. I would only like to defend this idea, about public broadcasting services, to say the following. I have a custom, so I also speak ideal conditions, to call that public service the largest national university. For a large number of citizens of this country for known reasons, primarily material, the first concept of serious music to be seen, first opera, transmissions and events from culture, national culture, school programme, educational programme, it is something that is practically only required by this public broadcasting service to have in its content. As you know, according to the rule of commercial television and radio, that's not what they do. In other words, we have a lot of interest in supporting the establishment of this kind of public broadcasting service and making it both software content independent of politics and financial services. Finally, honourable MPs, I would like to thank the task force who has been working with Radet Veljanovski, who has been doing this kind of work, for consulting with radio broadcasting experts from Europe. You know that the government of the Republic of Serbia has entrusted this job to do, a group of journalists who have shown their loyalty to the principles of independent journalism in the past, and most of them have been kicked out of work for it. It shows our great trust in people in the media, they had to, that is, trust to a large extent, the greatest if you want, to the extent possible, to justify it. They made a very good bill. I said I stay in it, this is a good day for Serbia and you have a modern law, a law that not only is historicly the first one in Serbia, but it is the first time that regulates this area, a law that has caused a bill, that is, that has caused so much media attention and it shows something very important. It is that the citizens of our country, not just the people of the media, but the citizens of our country realized that where there are no independent media, there is no democracy. So, citizens are now, not only politicians and political parties and media people, but ordinary citizens, that where there is no independent free media, there is no democracy. I believe that this shows a major step forward in our society's understanding of what democracy depends on, and I think there are many reasons why you as MPs support the bill. I would also like to address the opposition MPs, given that opposition and opposition MPs often have very many objections, sometimes justified, and sometimes unwarranted about how the media convey their activities. I think it would be useful for Serbia to take a closer look at this bill's proposal to answer the question itself whether this law is in fact appropriate to them, which are, at this point, in the opposition. So it's a law that provides great independence for electronic media. RTS also turns Radio Television Novi Sad into a public service, in a period of time that has been set by law here, so in the transformation process, we come to those media that will be more in the service of free and democratic society, and over the past ten years have shown media abuses, especially state media, and I want to remind you of what happened in 2000. So, the anger of the people was directed at RTS and it is one reminder to all of us that this law, if you will, is a direct consequence not only of our political decision to democratisation, but also of what the people have ruled, i.e. Never again are the media that are completely political servants, the media that are as free as possible, and that is one process and nobody says that the moment the law is passed, that Serbia gets completely independent media. This law essentially provides a very solid and significant basis for Serbia to really in one process of time get media, or electronics that are of course very important, means television and radio and it is independent, and besides that, and that is my last sentence, this law has been done fully and in line with what Europe today considers necessary. I must remind you that Austria itself, when it entered the European Union, had to completely change its media laws, so there are other European countries that had to change this, and we are in some sense a step ahead and most of the Eastern European countries took between three and five years to pass these laws. I must tell you that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is putting this law before you in less than two years of its psolation, so from the moment the government is elected and what is a kind of record in Eastern Europe. So very quickly and public interest shows that there is no doubt and that there is awareness that this law is very important and that it regulates a very important area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22664	I would like to thank the prime minister, Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Zark Korac. I'm asking if the committees want a word. The chairman of the Committee on Culture and Information, MP Ivan Andric has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22665	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs are just a few words about the Committee's involvement in the process of creating this law. I must say, this law is very important for a few reasons. First, the hereditary state in the media area that we found when we entered this building is probably the worst condition that could have been found. So, there is, at the moment, over 1,200 radio stations in Serbia are doing their work. According to some calculations, there are only 200 to 300 radio stations on the air. It's on one side. On the other hand, this topic is very sensitive because the media were one of the main levers of government, or power in the previous government, and they were so manipulated, so it was ungrateful to do anything about it. I must say, given all of this, this law has passed a very specific procedure and I think there is time and there is a possibility that every law will go through this procedure the way this one has. So, as Mr. Korać said, a year and a half ago a working group was formed to draft this law and it was made by media representatives on the one hand, and independent legal experts from the field of media on the other. They've been working on this law for over a year and nine versions of this law have come out in that time. After the law entered the assembly procedure, the Committee on Culture and Information carried out a series of consultations, first of all consultations were held with those most concerned by this law, which are media representatives and newspaper representatives. At several meetings held with media representatives, the media have made a whole series of proposals, so to speak, since they are not authorized legislators and I must be pleased to conclude today that many of these amendments have found their place in this latest bill that we have before us. Of these proposals is certainly the most significant proposal by AEM regarding the privatisation of local media. Therefore, this law provides for all local media to be privatised over the next four years. So there's still a whole series of provisions regarding subscriptions, how to charge subscriptions, the number of frequencies, etc. After these consultations, we held further consultations with representatives of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina, meaning the Vojvodina Assembly. The Vojvodina Assembly had a whole series of laws, the most important three laws concerning the special broadcasting agency for Vojvodina, which concerns the Second Channel of the Vojvodina Broadcasting Institute in the future. The Committee took part in these talks, and finally of these three of their proposals became an integral part of this bill, part of the subscription, although there are even more maximum demands than these, but this is our maximum and part regarding the Second channel of the Vojvodina Broadcasting Institute. After this round of consultations, since we as DOS MPs are working to ensure that all the laws we adopt are in line with European legislation, the Committee has had a whole series of consultations with international organisations dealing with this area. First of all, I would like to highlight my consultations with the Council of Europe and the OSCE. With them, co-operation was very constructive and went even so far that independent experts from the Council of Europe, several of them, came to the Assembly several times and participated in professional discussions with the Committee members. I must say that a whole series of their proposals, which were aimed at improving this law, have also become an integral part of this proposal. So much for that, and I would just like to say in the end that yesterday was the Committee, and even though there was a great deal of noise about this law, I would largely adopt this bill, although many expected more, and many might have wanted less. It's just that this is the maximum we can provide right now, and I urge you to support this law in principle.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22666	I thank the chairman of the Committee on Culture and Information. I ask if the President of the Legislative Committee, MP Bojan Pajtic, wants the word? He doesn't want to. ) Does the People's MP who has issued an opinion at the meeting of the Committee on Culture and Information, the MP Joca Arsic, want to speak? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22667	Dear colleagues and fellow Members, as the president has said, I have issued an opinion on the Committee on Culture on the proposal for this law, for several reasons. I'm going to try to present them to you and explain that to my opinion. First of all, my main objection is, the legislator, the Vice-President and the Honorable Mr. Korać here explained that in one democratic procedure we have prepared this law and I do not dispute this democratic procedure in the preparation of this law, a broad public debate, a few sessions of the Committee, co-operation with all interested parties on this matter, but I have one principled remark that this law at its very end made one small step out of this democratic procedure in such a way that a week ago was withdrawn from the procedure, brought back to the procedure for this session by emergency procedure, so that it had made one small discrepancy about the possibility of submitting amendments to this bill, because earlier amendments that had been made to the proposal of the law, which was in this previous text, and withdrawn from the procedure, ceased to be valid and we had to apply within a short period of one day, because we had amended the amendments to the proposed text of this law were directly prepared in a more democratic manner, in a manner, and in which we could be prepared in a more democratic manner, in orderly, in orderly, in order to be prepared. That's my first principle remark. The second remark would be on how to choose a council. I think the proposed solution, which was earlier, is that the council is numbering 15 members, that three members of the council are proposing NGOs, and that is now reduced to a total of one with eight members, who are proposing and selecting. Let our objection and my remark, the MP groups of the SPS, is that it is a lot that two representatives give the Executive Greater Vojvodina and the Assembly of Vojvodina. We also have the Serbian Parliament and the Serbian Government here, and that we have neglected, for example, the Serbian Academy of Sciences, which has previously figured out as one of the possible council members, who should be elected by this assembly and another thing that is very important, that 8 elected members of the council elect members from Kosovo and Metohija. I think it is a clumsy solution, because it is the one chosen by an 8-member council, or proposed by the Assembly, that is, not to choose it but to propose one from Kosovo and Metohija and as it is said there in the proposal that it must live and work there. This -- and it works, it's too high, because a man can live in Kosovo and Metohija, that he's not in a working relationship without being a respected academic or a respected citizen or a man who can fully respond to this function. So that part about having to be employed at the same time doesn't have to stand. I think it's one provision that's too high for this, and I've been talking about that that's who he chooses, that's eight members of the council in a subordinate position, because they practically proposed him to this congregation as one member. Let's say they gave two, so the Assembly chooses between the two, as all the other members are chosen. Also one of the main remarks is the reintroduction of taxis, i.e. subscriptions to television. The subscription was not disputed as a subscription and it existed before. We have explained here in one of the previous sessions of the Assembly that when then the Assembly will have to pass a regulation, that is, to determine in this way the financing of radio television at that time, and now the independent broadcasting system, the service of citizens, but what our disagreement is, is this three and a half times more subscription than it was. Let's say that she was increased with the cost of living, with a rise in the cost of living and a rise in this year, so she was about 60 dinars for your information, and now 210 dinars are proposed. We think it's quite an increase compared to what was true while that television subscription was being paid. In the end, I think that what is important also stands as my remark, it is that the agreement on the strategy for the development of broadcasting in the Republic of Serbia, which I think is almost a pandan of the spatial plan, gives consent to the government's strategy, not the Assembly. Our proposal would be that this strategy should be agreed upon by the Assembly. We think it's more celery and better than that authority has a government. That would be my remarks.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22668	Do the presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, want the word? The word is from MP Vojislav Seselj, president of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22669	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, from Deputy Prime Minister Zarko Korać in the opening exposé, we have heard many good wishes and even more beautiful and tempting promises. However, the practice in these two years of your authority speaks quite the opposite. The state media has never been blocked again and the opposition has never been repressed from their programme more than for the past two years. It's a fact, and from that fact, I'm drawing the conclusion that we're Serbian radicals, and you and some of the chosen opposition that you're pushing for trendy. We Serbian radicals have drawn the conclusion that this is your concept, and no matter what legal form you will frame it in, nothing good on that plan can be expected until power is changed. With this law, you are trying to regulate an area that has been badly regulated in Serbia so far, but this law did not offer anything better than something even worse. It's about two key things that are being processed by this law. It refers to the sphere of broadcasting, therefore to the most sensitive sphere of public information, because it is very easy to set rules in the sphere of the press and similar texts and to allow everyone to regulate the market with the principle of competition. There are very limited natural resources here. These natural resources must be made available by the state, because the state is in the name of the company the owner of all natural resources. This is also about the allocation of frequencies, whose number is limited, and that's why their structure needs to be specified and that's the step forward that's being made by this law. However, this is also about state television, formed by the state with its own capital, which it has always managed so far. Of course, according to this law, the state will manage, except that you are introducing a new body of state administration, formally independent of the government, a parallel government, so to the executive authority, and the constitution does not provide for such an authority. Our Constitution strictly respects the principle of power-sharing on its three main branches: legislative, executive and judicial. The political theory has long since, for decades, meant that the media and the sphere of public information are so important in social life in general and politically special, that they have already risen to one specific fourth branch of government. This branch of government is morally functioning. It has no administrative function, it does not manage state or social processes, but it has such a powerful influence on public opinion, and thus on the other three branches of government, that it is recognised politically and theoretically by that status, but not legally. This is about the legal sphere of regulation of broadcasting issues. This legal sphere of regulation must not bounce away from the elementary constitutional principles. Then one conceptual question arises, who should decide to assign frequencies and who should manage state media within the existing structure of three branches of government? So far, we've had practice that it was the exclusive jurisdiction of the executive authority. At one time, the executive power in the governing bodies included representatives of the opposition, such as in 1991, when Dragoljub Micunovic, Slobodan Rakitiæ, and I can't remember who the third was, I think there were three representatives on the board of directors of state television. Most often, the earlier authorities were self-managed and this did not contribute to the objectivity of the state media programme, but in the opposite direction: the state media were absolutely instrumentalised by the executive authority. It was only when opposition parties won local elections in certain municipalities that had their own state media that had a certain pluralism of ideological and political media orientation in state property. There's even been a war between the media on that basis. In this case, we would have to avoid a media war on a political and ideological basis, weigh free competition among the media, and find out which state body would be able to implement principles and correct rules in practice, either by grandmother or by uncles, as our people would say. It can't be executive power by nature things. What authority could that be? It could be the legislative authority. By what principle? On the principle of proportionate representation of political parties in parliament. You're trying to completely remove political parties from the decision-making domain on the allocation of frequencies and governance to state media. That's wrong. Political parties aren't something we should be ashamed of. You think there are much more valuable intellectuals out of political parties and that's wrong. They are the most valuable in political parties, because from ancient times to today in theory and philosophy it is widely known that politics is the highest form of human and social action, no more than politics. Therefore, the search for a political factor outside the political system, outside the multi-party system, is quite wrong. And if they had proven themselves and proved what you assume they were, they would have already participated in the spheres of government in political parties and thus directly influenced political life. They wouldn't be hiding somewhere, pulling some thread from the end and waiting for someone to impose them, suddenly throw them out on the surface and force them as a decision factor in some very important sphere. Furthermore, you have introduced a provision in Article 23 that deeply opposes the elemental democratic principles. You have introduced the principle of corporateism. It is a principle that put into political theory Mussolina to its fascist corporations, and in the Serbian people the theory had a supporter and a follower in a peripheral figure, in a man named Dimitri Ljotic. Always through history, those who were not allowed to go to elections, to expose themselves directly to the people's courts, sought a variant to bypass it, to be delegated somewhere. There are some delegates here. We had a concept several years ago, and in particular the concept was represented in Republika Srpska in public; there were some marginal political formations here in Belgrade, such as OBRAZ and similar ones, which advocated the concept, to abolish parliamentaryism, the democratic system, to form a state within a corporation, and where different professions, professions and social layers would delegate their representatives. So this parliament, too, would not be multi-party, but a parliament where someone would always delegate someone. You'd have made a key in the beginning, so unions would have delegated, as you say, NGOs, churches, employers, and so on. It's deeply opposed to democracy. We don't need a corporate system. The corporate system bypasses the will of the people. In history, all attempts at the corporate system have failed. Before the French Revolution, we had a standing system and a congregation of groups in France. Three stocks, I think, 300 MPs' stock, the feudal stock 300 and the citizens' stock 600. Parliament is always blocked, and whenever parliament is blocked, executive power has freed hands. This parliament must not be blocked in any way. Secondly, here you have foreseen nine members of the council who will have the highest authority and the highest authority in the field of frequency allocation...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22670	People's MP, do you want to use the next 10 minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22671	Yeah, I'm going on for 20 minutes. So is government radio and television. Of these nine, none of them will be opposition. Where there is no opposition, in such an important sphere, there is the will of the executive authority; no, none of them are opposition. First, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia chooses one, and that will be from the ruling majority, here I can bet right away. The Vojvodina Assembly also came from the ruling majority. The government, by nature of things, is the highest authority of the executive government. The executive power of the Vojvodina as well. Rectors of the University of Republika Srpska through a joint agreement. Who are the university rectors? The executive authorities. Mr. Korac should know that professors of the state university in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia could not even be MPs, because, by nature, they were civil servants and belonged to the executive authority. When you say university rectors, it's the same as when you say the Serbian government. It doesn't make any difference, because these university rectors, or universities, are funded from the budget. You hold them by the throat of the inflow of money and they're under your control. They can act in public, they can attack you and they can say whatever they want, they're existentially under your control. Next, the Association of Broadcasting Public Voices in the Republic. You're in charge of self-management. What is the meaning of the Association of Radiobulbs; and now it will rule itself? They should conduct competition, not force them to join together and give them public authority on the basis of this association. That's ridiculous. Next, you say -- "domestic NGOs and associations of citizens who are overly concerned with the protection of freedom of speech, the rights of national and ethnic minorities, the protection of children's rights... through a common agreement." There are hundreds of them, they say 700 or 800, maybe more. Who's going to be privileged here? Maybe Resistance, maybe Natasha Kandic, maybe Sonja Biserko, maybe Borka Pavicevic, maybe Biljana Kovacevic - Vuko. He who is close to you will be privileged. Whoever is not close to you will not be able to access the decision-making process. You say churches and religious communities. If churches could have joined together on one issue, today we would be just one church and religion in the world. The history of mankind in the past 2000 is the history of a major conflict between church and religion. You're asking them now -- yet you're not saying which, is that those seven traditional ones that we've admitted to be religious, or are they all registered religious communities, all religious sects that have registered, so there's more than a hundred of them -- to agree. On what principle will he agree? First, to consider whether they are internally democratically designed to participate in a democratic political system in this way, having public powers. This is a basic prerequisite, such as the precondition for political parties, that they are within a democratic character, that they have their standard, law-regulated bodies, to hold periodic assemblies or conventions, to go to democratic elections within them, etc. That condition must be set for churches and religious organizations before. And how are you going to convince them to form a body that will bring them all together and vote on what principle? Will it, in principle -- which is the largest religious community or church, so it will regularly be from the Serbian Orthodox Church; or will draw it out of the hat; or will some other factor influence that in that body, which will propose all religious communities, each will have, for example, one vote each, so that a dozen of those who all together do not have maybe 100,000 believers to outvote the religious community that has millions of believers. That's a whole series of questions you didn't answer. Under public authority; it is impossible for the state to give public authority to religious communities until a law on churches and religious communities is passed. You haven't defined legal status at all. It's not your fault, it's not your fault. There have been attempts in the past term. Minister of Faith Milovanovic prepared a draft of the law. There were no agreements between coalition partners, could not go to the Assembly, etc. But that question hasn't been regulated yet. What are religious communities within the political system? We, according to the Constitution, have guaranteed freedom of religion, but some law must specify exactly what religious communities are and what principles they are based on. First of all, on the principle of humanity and freedom. After all, we don't have to impose some political principles on them, but it has to be regulated, so that the status of priests can be regulated, because they are still without status. In part, their pension rights are regulated, but only those rights, neither of them. I remind you that in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia they had the status of civil servants, which means pay, legal protection, employment, pension insurance. They received wages from the state, priests of all confesions in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia. It obliged them not to run in the elections, and the active priests could not. Pop Korošec left his coat behind, then ran for office. Active priests couldn't have been MPs. They were in the structure of the executive government. King Alexander had the last word in selecting a patriarch. When, after World War I, the patriarch of Dimitria was elected by the Holy Archaeological Assembly, when the Serbian Orthodox Church was definitely united after nearly two centuries of its total destruction, King Alexander did not recognise the choice, and then by decree, he regulated the issue by law, so he himself asked Dimitri as the first Serbian postwar patriarch. You must consider the complexity of the church-state relationship. We have declared the principle of secularism. So, strict separation of church and state. If we consistently follow this principle of secularism, the state cannot give public authority to religious communities and churches of this character. Furthermore, you say in one place that the authority and the duty to propose members of the council have, including churches and religious communities. You are prescribing to churches and religious communities with this law certain duties that are not provided for by any church canon. How can you prescribe such duties to the church? What if the church says I won't. Something that is duty must be fulfilled. If it does not meet, sanctions are prescribed immediately. Is there a sanction here if any of these churches or religious communities say we're not going to participate, and the law says it's their duty. What's the basic problem here? The main problem is that your legal projects aren't mostly written by lawyers, they're written by people who have nothing to do with justice. You think any political desire can be normalized in an adequate way. He can't. There are political desires that are impossible to norm within the current constitutional system and democratic order. Secondly, you think this principle will be permanent. He won't. It, although you vote this law, will only last until the government changes, until a system is established that will equally correspond to the authorities and the opposition. So, one clean system. You now have 2/3 seats in parliament. I don't care if you're conflicting from the inside. Now is your chance to establish a congregation body that will assign frequencies and manage state television, while you have a two-thirds majority. If that principle is established, no one will dare to break it and step on it afterwards. Our problem is that so far it has never been possible to establish that principle, to regulate itself by law in this National Assembly and then to be strictly respected by everyone. You're making up an organ that's extremely nakaradan, which can't even have a fundamentally serious legal criticism to endure, and you think it's going to be permanent; and what's been his term for six years, etc., who's going to look back, to that. You remind me of Milan Milutinovic, who, in his own time, engaged in the adoption of a law on the privileges of the President of the Republic after the end of the term of office. We couldn't turn him away from it. He bolted, bolted, pushed it, thought the law would protect him when his mandate expired. Well, change the law. It's easier to change the law than to wait for the end of the term. To whom it represents a guarantee and to whom it protects. (President: I warn you of an excessive amount of time. ) Therefore, what should be our common desire and the aim is to pass a law on broadcasting that equally corresponds to both the authorities and the opposition and which would not change immediately after the next elections. Like this, this law won't last you a couple of months.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22672	National MP Zoran Angelkovic, an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group, spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22673	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, of course, the area of broadcasting for each country is an extremely important segment, which in all large and ultimately represents an important segment of economic stability in all countries of Europe, as well as economic development of the country, even social security. The aim of this law must be to drag it forward, not to drag it back, to represent development in this area, not a step backwards, to represent the time that has passed behind us. However, when this is discussed and this is how this law is observed, it is necessary that it acquires appropriate prerogatives, more specifically - that it has some foundations. It is necessary for the Serbian government to make a strategy for the development of telecommunications and broadcasting, before it proposes such a law, and that it is only on this basis that a law on telecommunications and on broadcasting can be accessed. So, in fact, we're building some branches on a tree without actually planting that tree, and we haven't solved the question of its roots. The other thing that matters when we talk about the law on broadcasting is whether there is a constitutional basis for the adoption of this law, or, more specifically, whether it is in accordance with the federal constitution. According to everything we have today, it is not in accordance with the federal constitution, because the federal constitution predicts the division of frequencies, which is in fact within the jurisdiction of the federal state. Of course, there is an answer to the constitutional charter and that this will be resolved in the Constitutional Charter, that it is already in perspective and that it will be resolved very quickly, but when this law is passed it will in fact not be in accordance with the Federal Constitution. I think they know that, for sure, and those who have proposed this law, and I am a legislator. The next thing that this law is not possible in the right way to treat, when we are talking about it today, regardless of the need for such a law, is that it is necessary to adopt the law on telecommunications before that, and Vice President Korać said it in a way. Of course, he said that the telecommunications law would be passed, but it's impossible to talk first about the programme, about creating a program, about creating a council, about what kind of program we're going to have, and only then about dividing the frequencies and who shares that frequency; how frequencies are assigned; what technical conditions are, about everything that's related to the telecommunications law. Of course, it can be answered that this law provides for automation. when a person is entitled to broadcast a programme, it is understood that they will also receive the right to use frequencies; but, in essence, if there is no telecommunications law, there is no way to see what conditions, what will arise and whether certain manipulations can occur if this advice is placed as superior and without the existence of such a law. Why am I saying this? I think we'll all agree that the resources of frequencies are even limited, but they're not as limited as they're being heard here today as they say in public the last few days. The chairman of the Committee on Culture has said here that out of 1,200 broadcasters, of those who broadcast the broadcasting and broadcasting programme, 200 of those who will broadcast the television programme will remain. Does today, at the beginning, when we adopt this law mean a threat to 1,000 people, to those who are currently broadcasting a broadcasting program, and based on what. Based on what law? Based on which we have determined that there are 200 or 300 frequencies that can be used in the radio-television program. Who's to say that? First, that's not true. [[You can't hear any comments from the gym.]] This observation was not done by experts and I am talking about it because it is based on the observation of the period of the 1980s, namely the technical achievements of the 1980s for the number of frequencies to be used in the SRJ space. Usalom, let's take an example, if you want -- four or five years ago, if you want two years ago, satellite antennas that cost 700 or 800 euros, and now cost 50 euros, for a simple reason -- on that antenna you can use one television program on one channel, and today on the same antenna, only a digital one, costing 150 euros, can be used from four to eight TV programs and up to 100 radio programs. Therefore, the same thing is when it comes to broadcasters and broadcasting programs, as well as when it comes to allocations of frequencies. If so, the story of limited resources does not stand, as is the case with 200-300 television and radio programmes; it means that before that, a law on telecommunications must be made, and it draws a conclusion as to how, how and what should be shared. Of course, for these reasons, I'm talking about the law starting from the time of the '80s, since someone here threw that it was established by experts; well, when experts established how many radio and television frequencies there could be on these premises. That's not true today. It's not the condition today. Do we want to make a law that will cloud Europe's eyes, how we have made some democratic law, or do we want to make a law that will apply until 2010 or 2015. We're making a law today that strategically misdirects broadcasting in this country, and when I say wrong, I don't mean politically, I speak technically, to the 80s, not 2010 or 2015. This shows Rade Valjanovski was doing this bill because he predicts, for example, three radio stations with mediumwave programs. Who else listens to the middle wave in this country? Nobody. Of course, one should exist because it's directed towards Europe and the world, but no one uses radio receivers anymore, or listens to a medium wave radio program. Of course, Radio "S" is not broadcast on the midwaves, but on short waves, and that's a matter of technical achievements, and it's not a political issue. So you wouldn't mention it for a while, but it's the most listener, and you know it, but when we talk about it, he doesn't have a frequency. [[Sagar.]] I wasn't like him at the time to get the frequency. And he was broadcast without a frequency permit. Others had the privilege, but they're with you now. They're not in opposition, unfortunately. They are now the ones who are privileged by you and are always privileged and will always pass, always getting the frequency because they are privileged in a different way than by broadcasting programs and the quality of the program. We should probably make a law that allows someone to get a frequency, get the right to broadcast because they have a quality program, not because they are privileged by any authority; I repeat once again - they are always privileged by that authority. I said that Radio "S" of course didn't have a frequency permit because Douchilo couldn't approve it, because I probably wasn't like him. There's not enough treatment here for cable nets and cable nets. Let's take neighboring Hungary as an example. Over 50% of the broadcaster broadcasts its TV program directly via cable network. In the Netherlands, it's over 90%. In fact, that direction of broadcasting and television development is not covered at all, and we have to focus on it. Where do we want to target the development of a particular project and the development of a particular area in this country? It's not enough to just make some law that will be short-term or show Europe how we have that law. This law is directed only at broadcasters and treats only broadcasters and in some ways protects the state, but it is not aimed at what benefits the citizen has. When we talk about it, we can talk about the subscription. Let's take that subscription and the inequality of the media. One has the right to charge, to benefit from having 210 dinars per TV subscriber. It's this broadcasting system of Serbia. The second target sector is fully privileged. This first one is the most privileged, and the civilian is privileged because there is no burden to pay the expenditure in terms of using the program, using the frequency. It has an obligation to get the frequency as soon as they compete, and the third is commercial, which should show the true beauty of Serbia's political map in both cultural and educational terms, but also in any other sense. He has an obligation to pay the frequency, he has an obligation to compete and pay for the broadcast and he is the most irregular. Therefore, we get the actual three segments of inequality between the media that we will have based on the adoption of this law. Of course, when it comes to a subscription, this isn't just about the amount of the subscription, 200 dinars more or less. It's about morality, after all. You entered the election campaign with a promise to Serbian citizens that there will be no subscription. You were saying - immediately, as soon as we arrived, the first law to be abolished... Milka, calm down, talk about it in Požega. [[Sagar, throwing from the bench.]] You were talking about the immediate lifting of the subscription bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22674	Please don't disturb the speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22675	Of course, because he was tied to the electricity industry. The least important is how it is and what it is related to, because it will also be connected to the electricity industry here, because they will offer the best conditions, which is seen from this, but it is not only the height, but that the one in Jajinci, somewhere on the Bulgarian border, which has one TV programme, but none, has the obligation to pay 210 dinars and the one who has 15 programmes in Belgrade, has an obligation to pay 210 dinars. Simply, there's no synchronization that less pays the one who has one program; you're going to say - there has to be, because it's said to be 90% coverage, it's not today. What do we do about it? There must be. Until then, he has to pay a TV subscription. When it comes to increasing the TV subscription, a double increase is foreseen. Realistically, given the prices for a little, and the actual 5% for each year, that means that in five years, we will have not seven marks, not 3.5 euros in subscription, but we will have a literally double subscription, when we increase 5% realistically, plus prices to a little bit. Therefore, whether Serbian citizens can handle it, except that you promised yourself that TV subscriptions would not be made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22676	People's MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the DOS parliamentary group, spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22677	Ms. Micic, the Honored Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I will try to return this debate to the frameworks given by the proposing representative, Mr. Korać, to facilitate today's debate and decision on the information that must inevitably be announced during this debate, in order to fully form the correct picture of the way in which the proposal of this law has been defined and everything that preceded our assembly debate. I think I have a duty to respond to some of the criticisms my predecessors pointed out here, with the final word being expressed by a representative of the motionors and the government, Vice President Mr. Koraq. So what must inevitably be done during this debate is a precise indication of the essential segments of this law, through all those norms that depolitize this law and at the same time through a parallel, unforgivable, also very important and irreplaceable process of building a new system of values. The depolitisation of media space is done through the formation of advice; we can discuss it; then, through the construction of a public service, i.e. the transformation of RTS; and parallelly, by defining the new role of local radios and TV stations, which are located under the authority of local self-government. I'm referring you first of all to the Law on Local Self-Government and a certain procedure, which is laid down by that law. You will see that we, as representatives of the democratic government, have made a major step forward, a step that we have fully aligned this bill with international conventions, which as a state we are obliged to respect. First of all, I mean the Council of Europe Convention and the Convention on Cross-border Television. At the same time, we have provided the necessary support for the international public, which is monitoring at the moment of our society, in order to verify our return to those international institutions where we think we belong, if we want to protect our society's interests carefully. I mean, first of all, the Council of Europe. So, the depoliticisation process has been on three levels: through the formation of a broadcasting agency's advice, i.e. the advice of that regulatory body, which will deal with very important and responsible work; through the reconstruction of RTS towards the creation of a public service, which would rest on two pillars -- a radio-distributive institution of Vojvodina and a broadcasting institution of Serbia; and through the transformation of local radio stations. The issue of advice is very serious and it has, of course, extended this assembly debate within a week, since it is clear that by proposing this law, the government actually wanted to step forward towards all those political changes, which we inevitably want to implement in processes in which we are quite fast and which, despite that speed, are inevitably late for the countries in the environment. It is true that we, unlike other countries in transition, have proposed this law after a year and a half of the government, but it is also true that in the meantime we are 10 years late for all, so it is in itself commendable for us, but I don't think it goes in any way to the benefit of those who are at this moment criticising this initiative: therefore, the formation of advice, the problems we faced during this job and the final solution. I think it is important to say about the process of working on this idea solution, which is in front of you today, that this proposal, which is different from what it had previously entered into the congregation procedure, has established a full balance in rights, but that, as a government, we have made a great commitment to ourselves, which is not evenly passed on to that other non-governmental, or civil sector. So by balancing our rights, we've changed the previous relationship that among the 15 members of the council, who manages broadcasting in our society, only two representatives of the state. We wanted to be equal in this business, first of all because we feel there is no reason why such a role would be denied to us in advance. This equality does not entail any advantage. The solution we came up with, we actually confirmed something like that through concrete action. Four representatives elect today's current current authorities -- through the information given to the Executive Council of Vojvodina, the Republic government, parliament of the province and the Republic of Parliament. The fifth representative is unforgivable, we care very much about his role, which is primarily political, with, of course, thinking politically in that representative sense, because it is clear that it is not about a person who has any political views, but about a person who must respect the strict codes of profession; as set out in this law. The ninth member of the council will be reached by consensus, therefore, by agreement of the representatives, on one side of the government, and on the other side of the civil sector, an agreement which will then be verified here, before the MPs of the Republic Palrament. There is no possibility of a decisive influence of the authorities in this business and that is what we are very pleased about; that is what the representatives of international institutions with whom we have spoken during the preparation of this law and through that understanding I think that the kind of fear that can be justified is completely denied, given primarily the poor experience of the media in relations with the authorities of this society. But at the same time, it can't be a key thing, because we consider ourselves different from our predecessors, among other things, because of the way we came to this law, leaving complete freedom to the task force, which through nine versions actually had an absolutely independent and fully free-established editorial and concept policy, which eventually only sought the verification that we had come to together; so I repeat again, through the consent of the representatives of the working group, which was made by the people of the media sector and representatives of the legal professional service that was necessary to do this. The council should have nine members, four representatives will elect the assembly, on a proposal from the country's competent and established authorities, while four representatives will elect religious communities, rectors through agreements, NGOs and representatives of national minorities. It's a matter of civil sector agreement on its representatives. It is true that there is also a delegative principle, but it is also balanced; it is partly delegate, in the sense that a civil sector agreement is needed, but it is very strict on the other hand politically defined through those ingenuities given to the two congregations and to the Executive Council, i.e. the Republic Government. The way we deal doesn't take us too much to burden. We cannot challenge the possibility of this agreement in advance, because it is clear that, for example, the church communities agreed very easily during a process that meant the return of religion as an optional subject to our education system, and there were no problems. It is clear that they have very easily agreed during the preparation of textbooks that will be the basis for conducting such a course. We have no doubt that there will be an agreement on the representative in that broadcasting council, first of all because it is a function that involves rotation, and that representation and that right of the championship will, of course, be achieved through agreement, and not through any conflict. I have no doubt that this agreement will take place because religion is the essence of tolerance and respect for different opinions. Convinced that in our premises it will be confirmed through the representative selection of representatives of the church communities in this council. As for the representatives of the university, or the functions of the rector, I don't think it's up to the Assembly to dispute the possibility of an agreement. Such an attitude, and Priory, we would fully devalue the scientific system of our society. I don't see that there's any basis for such a negative relationship to that intensity. As for the representatives of NGOs, that's another question. We in the country have over a thousand NGOs, registered on a republican level or federal level. The process of agreeing on representatives of NGOs in the broadcasting council is significantly different from anything that will follow the decision-making process in those other situations. I think that in that case, NGOs will be able to prove their seriousness, understanding the moment and role they are entrusted with through the bill we are discussing. As for the role given to national communities, I think it is commendable for us, that we have no reason to fear it and do not see that the election and work of representatives of the national communities in that broadcasting council would be denied by anyone. On the contrary, and I am convinced that there is a much wider space for affirmation of national personalities and diversity, which are our wealth, and not our fault at all. I am sure the MPs will understand that when the candidate's proposal is discussed, which will be represented in the national community's council. I think we have a duty to answer questions inexplicably here and concerning the reduction of the number of members, from 15 to 9, and the loss of status that had previously been defined for individual institutions. First of all, I think the Serbian Academy of Science and Art has been mentioned, but besides the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts, they have lost their status to some other institutions, which had previously been guaranteed such a thing. This was not done because someone believes that the Serbian Academy of Science and Art is an institution that has nothing to say in the field of broadcasting, but primarily because we wanted to create a functional, active body, which will dynamically contribute as fast as possible to the application of this law and that through a representative of the university will meet the precondition we wanted to meet, among other things, and through the presence of representatives of the Serbian Academy of Science and Art. Of course, it is on the advice to fully consult all independent institutions that currently exist and operate in our society, including the Serbian Academy of Science and Art. The status of film art representatives, i.e. composers, defined by the previous solution, is not too disputed, since the possibility is left that if they make the necessary arrangements, representatives of the NGO, professional broadcasting associations and journalists' associations, in fact, from these two-time organisations choose their representative to represent them during a certain time period within the Council. Through the principle of rotation, of course, it would open up the possibility for others to exercise their right over the period ahead of us. So I think the way he's chosen advice at this point, through the balance of rights and taking on a much bigger burden than the government, is ideal and at this point represents our maximum. Given what followed this redefining of this status of council, I don't think anything can be found that would challenge our intention to depolitize the media area and to step fully into a new segment, social development...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22678	Do you want to use the next ten minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22679	Yes, of course. So, that in a different way would remove all those anomalies that were inherited and that shouldn't be talked about too much because I think it's a thing of the past. Public service, i.e. the transformation of the Radio Television of Serbia; I think we need to talk about the way public service is financed, and of course we need to look back at what our political promises and attitudes have been, criticising the previous forms of funding, and that we need to point to those changes in which the depolitisation process is passed on to Serbia's Radio Television, i.e. the Vojvodina and Serbia broadcasting institutions. This division of RTS represents, in fact, a return to that concept that existed before RTS was established and meant the existence of Radio Television in Novi Sad and the existence of Radio Television here in Belgrade. I think that allows for the smooth and faster development of these television houses and that it cannot possibly be considered to be some sort of media pitching; it would actually happen if we respected the kind of requirement that has been made between us and through the amendments, as regards the formation of an independent Broadcasting Council of Vojvodina. Therefore, RTS is transformed and an independent public service is formed. There aren't many examples at this point that would be liberalism can track what we're doing today. I think the policy mentioned here is like a top-notch norm. Examples were given and all that happened in the meantime. It is true that politics is the ultimate norm in some societies like Great Britain and that such a thing is indisputable. There, the Minister of Culture appoints the director, or editor-in-chief of the BBC, with his decree, but we are not at that level, it should be said openly. We cannot endure this kind of status privilege and freedom, and therefore we want to depoliticalise the area of public service through the formation of an unrequited agency, which will completely independent from politics choose the board of directors, and he will then, by conducting the usual procedure of the public competition, elect the director and editor-in-chief of one and other broadcasting institutions. The way of funding - subscription; it will be achieved through a deal of a broadcasting institution, namely Belgrade Television and TV Novi Sad with a public enterprise that can do so most effectively. What is the difference between the subscription that we establish as a form of funding of public service and the subscription that we have so strongly molested in the previous period. Not in the methodology in which this subscription is made, but in the function of that subscription. This is an independent form of public service financing, a form in which on the one hand you have citizens who allocate funds to finance the public service and on the other hand that public service that it spends. You will see that there is no inter-station in this relationship that would involve some control role of the government, the finance ministry or the ministry that deals in a certain way by regulating the area of information. That's a big difference. If the public service was financed in a way that has been financed since the amendments to the Law on Radio-Television of Serbia, which we did a year ago, it would mean that the practical public service is not independent, because you cannot be formally independent if the state finances you. That's the big difference. Secondly, I think that there are major changes in the editorial concept, given the way public service is defined and that completely eliminates the kind of dangers and criticisms that we have brought to us over the past ten years, which were certainly more than just argument. The return of the subscription and the detachment of the state are two processes that cannot be observed independently, nor can the subscription be criticised as a form of funding be ignored, and the state's position to no longer interfere in the field of public service, through the finance or policy it has done through the function of the Management Board, i.e. the appointment of directors and editor-in-chief. That's the big difference, and I think the citizens will support that kind of thing and understand. Level, the amount of that subscription is minimal at the moment. It is not due to a certain political will, a decision; it is clear that it would suit any politician in power that this amount is as low as possible, but we must also take care of the needs of public service, which must meet the educational, informative and cultural needs of our society, and something like that is impossible without that minimum subscription of 210 dinars. The way it will be achieved is, above all, the question to which TV representatives, i.e. public service and public enterprises to reach agreement. The government or the congregation have no role in this, nor can we influence this process in any way. What also deserves great attention and what cannot remain on the sidelines is the status of local radio stations owned by municipalities, or local self-government. You will see that through the formation of advice and distance from that crucial arbitration role she played in public service, in local self-government, the state actually raises its hands from the media. This is a good way to stabilise a political system and a system of values that has so far been significantly destroyed precisely because of the political needs that have been in conflict with everything that is our common and general need. So local stations will be privatised over a four-year period. This privatisation is just because we want the problem, which can produce a local station under the authority of local self-government, should not be left without that final response and I am convinced that this is exactly the kind of procedure of local self-government, such a step in the new era will be supported by citizens and political structures operating at the level of municipalities and cities. The number of local and television stations is exactly what it is here, several times mentioned here, it's 1,300 what it did, what television stations do and it's clear that if you want to meet professional standards, you can't keep that number of radio-television stations and that's not just a matter of political will, but of professions and professions that gave us such data. You are certainly interested in the fate of certain radios, or television stations, but that fate is in the hands of an independent body, the advice of a broadcasting agency, which will decide on the basis of the professional criteria laid down by this law, or the criteria that we can discuss. They are not, I repeat, political and it cannot be challenged by any member or by the attitude of the law we are discussing today. As for building a system of values, clear criteria are introduced for the first time. They are just destroying the kind of privileged position that the RTS may have had so far, as funding has been mentioned through the subscription and status of other commercial cells financed through commercial programmes. If you carefully read the law, you will see that this status privilege, a binding subscription, is balanced with commercial televisions through the scope of a commercial programme, which the public service can broadcast, or with which it has. It's 10% of the total program, unlike commercial television that has 20% of that program. I don't think that through this difference of commercial television they should fear for their future because that's enough difference for the smooth functioning of the system that they've developed so far. The role of this law, among other things, is very important in that segment where cartels, or media monopolies, have existed so far. You'll see in what way it seems, that it's not a political definition again, and that it's fully in line with the principles on which modern media space rests, what we strive for. The role of NGOs; parties cannot establish television and this is the consensus of the DOS parliamentary group; this is something that we stand behind: neither can parties, nor can individuals who are close or are part of any party operating in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, but can NGOs. This dilemma and the very sign of equality between the party and the NGO is unacceptable to us. We want NGOs, if they fully affirm and satisfy the criteria set out in this law, based on their local television. I was raised on one of those programs. I remember that he was revolutionary at the end of the 1980s; the OK channel launched an experimental program that lasted less than a month, but he basically knocked down barriers that had been established for almost 50 years. We want to affirm this role of NGOs, I don't think there's anything to be afraid of, and that's one freedom established by this law that deserves our respect. The problems we have faced: the request of a representative of the Vojvodina political scene for the existence of a broadcasting agency in the Vojvodina area, for the absolute availability of a subscription and for the allocation of a second channel to the national communities. It was accepted without any slow request that would allow that kind of freedom to the national communities and TVs of Novi Sad, in addition to the service established by this law, will also be available by another channel, which will serve the needs of national communities. The issue of subscription; it cannot be respected that these funds absolutely have a Vojvodine Broadcasting Agency, or TV Novi Sad, because it uses programmes that are broadcast from Belgrade; we believe that such broadcasting of broadcasting space would indeed be inappropriate, that there is much more political than a professional context and therefore we cannot stand behind that decision, but we can respect the specific needs of TV Novi Sad and this has been done through a legal solution.... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... predicting the allocation of funds to 70%, Belgrade and 30% to the New Sad. The Vojvodina Broadcasting Agency is not acceptable to us; it does not exist as an idea solution in countries that are our examples, is not in line with international conventions, with Council of Europe's recommendation No. 23 of 2000; it does not comply with OSCE standards which we want to respect and I think that through the agreement and consultations that have been carried out, we have received the kind of political support that guarantees the vote of this law and its secure future. All in all, we fully support the proposal; we thank the task force; we recommend that those who criticise us look at it and make sure that they are not alone in it; paradox: in the criticisms, which are referred to us both from the work of the NGO sector and from the representatives of the opposition, we recognise the essential value of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22680	The word is held by MP Dragan Rafaelovic, authorised representative of the Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, and then by MP Biaci Anton, the president of the reformist parliamentary group and the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians, and by MP Ratimir Svilcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22681	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Vice President, honored guests, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this law is an example of what kind of procedure should be passed by a law that comes before us to parliament for adoption. I will make a parallel with five laws that we passed a few months ago; not listening to a public debate, not respecting what has been said, the draft law in the area of justice that was to be passed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, one party has passed those five laws without all of it, and we these days have to redistribute these laws to be applicable. Evidence that this was well done was a months-long public debate, numerous television shows, numerous newspaper articles, cabinets and 10 versions of this law. The tenth version came, so that all those who are interested, from employees through experts to interested in this area, were able to make observations and they were, as far as I can see, respected; we got a good version of the law and, most importantly, this is how the laws adopted by this assembly should be proposed. Under this law, I'm going to make a few observations about how well-prepared everything is. Let's just say, the way to choose the Broadcasting Council: no politicians, no directors and no relatives. Should we explain how good that is? The presence of a programme in the languages of national minorities; it is one of the steps that leads us to Europe, and that is one of the things that just says that this law is heading towards 2010 and 2015, and not to some 80-year-old, as is said here. The arrangement of the amount of advertising and total program, which is very important, and it will give exactly the competition that's being talked about here. They say there will be no competition and there will be no separation. I'm sure there's gonna be competition and no one's gonna pay for the commercial video to be broadcast on TV, if nobody's watching or, say, listening to the radio program. So the other thing that is very important is that the law is in line with European flows and that is most important, because our primary goal is to hit the foundations of Serbia's entry into the European Community. The same important thing is punishment for the editors-in-chiefs and all those who abuse the very broadcasting houses, their position or break the law. Then, sanctioning and thus abolishing piracy. If you remember in the last decade, in the last decade of the 20th century, Serbia's broadcasting programme has abounded, it has been packed with pirate shows, videos and all other things, which has caused great shame to our country. So this will arrange the broadcasting space and create independent and free media. The remarks that exist will absolutely exist in the adoption of every law, because one law is not passed according to the will and will of all. It is brought in so that those who work like this can do their job, so that they can answer for what they do and, of course, make a profit. Our job is to adopt laws like that. From all ahead, the above - mentioned Demochrist Party will be very pleased to vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22682	The word has been made by MP Anton Biaci, president of the DoS-Agreement Group of Vojvodjan Hungarians, and then by MP Ratomir Svircevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22683	Mrs. Comic, Mr. Vice President, the honourable fellow MPs, the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians will support the adoption of this law in principle. They will do it out of conviction that this law is the first step, the beginning, I stress only the beginning, to try to make order in the jungle of electronic media in Serbia. I wouldn't go on with the commendation. The commendations have been made so far, and this law and its provisions will praise the promoter further. I will not even criticise the details of this law, it will do the opposition, but based on experience and practice in the province, as we usually say, in the interior, I would like to say a few remarks by the generals of this law, which, based on the attempt of simulation, have shown that the promoter should have much more hearing for amendments, which have been submitted and whose aim was to improve this law. When I say much, much more hearing and there with respect I ask the Deputy Prime Minister to step down from the practice so far and if something seems to him to be as clear as a tear in the amendments, to accept it for the following reasons, because we, with the technology of work, will not improve this law, for nothing good amendments, whether they are from a position or opposition. I would briefly like to, telegraphically point to two three things that I think we have in a package of all amendments, opportunities to improve them. By my deep conviction this law is not perfect, it is not without fault, but it is to be improved. It's not perfect because if it's read well and it's trying to transfer it to the inside, to this wealth that we have in public information, then I apologize for the assessment of iliqualification, it turns out, at least to me, that this law, primarily, is a law on RTS or a law on national service. This is because, if applied on the basis and based on it, public information through electronic media on the ground or municipalities will be impoverished. I don't think any legislator, no government, any society can be the goal of impoverishing such serious action, such as public information. In fact, with us, local public information was developed precisely because municipalities in the past were able to establish their own local media. These local media for those who know public information, they know that many, many, many more mean to their local environment, to local citizens, than to the media of the state or the media that are founded in the centres, in the metropolis and do not have a daily relationship with the local community. This is what we wanted to do otherwise, when it comes to amendments, and to point out in detail. Furthermore, I believe this law is as naked as it is presented to us, a tripod with one foot. True, there were words and promises here after the adoption of this law to pass a law on telecommunications. Surely, until we have a compatible telecommunications law and a compatible public information law, it will really be just a tripod with one leg. This issue of telecommunications law, I don't know if we're going to wait as long as this law, but there'll probably be some complications about why the telecommunications law was federal law so far. And now that I'm not talking, I guess that's how I understood Mr. Vice President that we were promised to pass the telecommunications law as a republican law. That's got to be good. Another topic, which is that in order to please everyone, let me put it that way, or that pluralistic interest to please the state and some groups, and even Europe, in my reading of the law in some of its members leads to anomalies. It is only that, in order to comply with European legislation, the law appears and I will state here one example, Article 96, which is now later in this text that we received yesterday, a new paragraph has been added to the question, a new point, that the radio or television stations referred to in paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of this article have an obligation to privatise within four years of the date of entry into force of this law. If so, why is it possible or why this law foresees and allows the local community’s radio or television station to establish a congregation of municipalities. It is the first attitude, the second attitude and the third attitude. It is a complete anomaly, because if it has to be privatised by law, it cannot remain that local self-government or the city can establish a regional or local radio station. I think the anomalies should be left out. When I said public information would be poorer, that's exactly what I was thinking, and it's probably for discussion, and what I'm going to say. So the issue of privatisation, if it is at the request of Europe or because Europe does not know the radio station as a public service of the local community, and for this reason should be privatised to these radio stations, then I ask whether the private radio station or the private electronic media is more independent in political terms than the media that still has one branch control, if it is the owner of the municipality's congregations, or if it is the founder of the municipality's congregations over its bodies. It's for discussion. In my deep conviction, no private record can be more politically independent or without influence, foreign influence, but if it's a local medium whose founder is a local community and who has the right social control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22684	The word is from MP Ratimir Svircevic, president of the DOS-Reformists of Vojvodina and the Sandzak Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22685	The Honorable Presidency, fellow MPs, so let me start with more beautiful or less beautiful things, so let's get out of this if I haven't been able to do the amendments. I was going to. Somewhere in the writing of the amendment there was a monitor on the side and the debate started and the lady said, it's over, she says, I'm sorry. In my neighborhood they usually say when a man is late, he's not on time. In my case, it was. I wasn't on time. She welcomed me to the MP's office. This envelope with the bill. Anyway, what I was telling you about didn't work out. However, Mr Grubacki has submitted an appropriate number of amendments that are almost identical to what I was going to do, so I will not be denied on that side and I will accept it. I would therefore ask the President of the Assembly or the Presidency at all, that in future, if possible, this is to express the precedent of this kind of speed and this kind of law-making in the process, so that we, however, who are not from Belgrade, could arrive with a little bit more of this commission to do something, suggest something that possibly the entire assembly would accept. Of course, in order for the law to be better, it may help to apply it as best as possible. So, let me move on to a legal solution. I can say that in front of the Parliament Club of Reformists and the Sandzak Democratic Party, the law will, in principle, be accepted. That's not controversial. We'll have a number of amendments that we'll support. Whether they will be adopted or not remains to be seen. I don't think that these amendments to some significant extent will affect the fact that this law, in fact, regulates one area the way we're supposed to fix it, that we get something that we've been waiting for all these years. Not to mention, this is the ninth version. It's probably an objective circumstance, probably because of a number of circumstances. Let's not talk about it. I'd like to say something about a period that's been behind us for ten years and more. I think I have the right to do that, given that some here have mentioned time since ancient times, etc. I would return to something close to the past, which may be similar in something, that period of antiquity and slave property, etc. So I'm not making this guy's illusions, just to say that after the yogurt revolution in Vojvodina, one of the first victims was radio television, and in our case, TV Novi Sad. You know that the yoghurt revolution, first the political structure fell, and that must have been legal and immediately after that informing. It speaks of the importance of information and it speaks of the importance that the ruling structure of government and information, as a very, very, very important part. In this law, we have a whole series of solutions that make it impossible, that at least try to regulate this area by European standards, so that it is independent, that it works on the well-being of all citizens, that it is not in the function of one political structure, so that after the shift of political ones that are ahead of us in the next period, 10, 20, 30, 40 years, no one is eternal, we change people, we change laws, we change laws, etc. What happened to us out there at the beginning of the last decade? We got a few very important things. It's that Radio TV Novi Sad has become Studio Novi Sad. It was then the largest studio in the world, a studio that had several thousand employees, a studio that had tens of thousands of square meters of surface, a studio that had dozens of reporting colleagues. I don't think any CNN had a studio, for example. It was one serious radio television, at the time certainly one of the most modern in the former Great Yugoslavia, and it did not lag much behind European television at the time. For the last 10, 12 years, they've done their job. It's a television that now has no space, lives and works in rented space. From that magnificent building, you remember that it was always written down in that title of the carron - Stone Road bb. That building was leveled with television, and 2/3 of the area of that building was never put into operation. It is fortunate that in the meantime, a technique has progressed to the point that so many buildings, such a machine, that number of square meters no longer needed to perform the function of a radio television station, as according to this law Radio TV Novi Sad. This is where Mr. Andric, the chairman of the Committee, and later Mr. Ceda Jovanovic, said they had come out to meet us dukes. There's probably a lot of reasons for that. One of the reasons is that I mentioned what happened to us at the beginning of last decade. Later on, we became a war chamber, and after that, the Social Peacekeepers, which we are to a good extent today. Namely, they said, of the three demands of the Duke Corps of Parties, two were respected. It's one significant concession to those of us who asked for it. I'd say we got about one and a half things. This thing, about two channels, there's no dilemma. That's where we get 100% of what we're looking for, and that's two channels, and with a very clearly explained demand why we need it. It's appreciated, and I think it's okay. This second request, where we are participating in the subscription that is being collected in the territory of Vojvodina, we have no claim on wider territories, is the government's proposal to be a 70-30% ratio. One of the amendments that I failed to submit, and, let's say, Mr Grubasky did, is that this relationship would be more in favour of the Radio Television of Novi Sad, but we'll see how the MPs react, how it would turn out. However, what I was going to say, in the period when TV Novi Sad was in full operation, that was after the 1970s, when it was one of the most important television centres in that part of Europe, then the subscription to the Vojvodina territory was over 90%. Belgrade was about 70, and as it went south, the rate of the subscription fee was lower, to finish with Kosovo, which had only a few percent. Now what do we get in 70:30%? Everyone with little knowledge of mathematics knows that if the degree of charging was the way it was twenty years ago when it was much better to live, when the receipts were, when the employment was higher, when such a system of subscription was giving these results that I was talking about, what we'd get if it kept repeating it. I think the example of power distribution best tells where and how to charge, not only electricity, but also other public revenues, i.e. the costs for citizens. Then it won't be 70:30 but it'll be far worse at the damage of Radio TV Novi Sad. But what's there is. I would only like to appeal to you MPs to respect the amendment that requires 85%, which is some kind of compromise between the proposed percentage and the 100% that was the original request, in order to mate that the degree of charge, which is traditionally the largest in Vojvodina, is at least this way to be tempered. In the event that such an amendment passes, we are not sure whether TV Novi Sad will have enough to exchange with Television Belgrade, so that we do not experience that qualification that it says - Vojvodina should still pay part of its subscription because it is watching Radio Television Belgrade. I think that through this system we will have such a production that the exchange will be such that a very large part of Serbia will also watch what is produced by Radio TV Novi Sad and that we will have a great right to look for in some later period and a 100% subscription from Vojvodina territory.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22686	Are any of the other representatives or representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? We move to a debate in order of registered speakers. The word has a representative of the Government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22687	Your Honor, Madam Vice President, honourable Members of the People, I would like to respond to a number of objections in principle. I am very pleased that the representatives of the opposition and representatives of the ruling parties have discussed this law in a serious way. So as you can see, this wasn't used for exclusively political disputes. A number of questions have been raised here. Some of them can really be answered in different ways, and some of them, in my opinion, have essentially shown no understanding of what the meaning of this proposal is. I would say the following: Mr Seselj's proposal was made here on behalf of his parliamentary group. In fact, he asked a question that is certainly a valid question, which is who assigns frequencies and who manages public service. So, as a question, that's a serious question, but that is the question this law answers. This whole process of law-making and consultation with experts from Europe has just been about the issue. His proposal and his solution were, which was otherwise not accepted in Europe, today considered overcoming, to be decided by the Assembly. What would be the advantage of that solution? The advantages are that the congregation is an expression of national will, sovereignty, and no one challenges it. The assembly, if I may say so, paints what would be the dominant political stance of most citizens. I'm talking about democratic elections, democratic election procedures, how surely we will have a permanent future from now on. So political sovereignty. However, it is shown in practice that it is only one political will that can be changed. As you know, there may be very dramatic changes in the election when citizens change that political will. Practically, this would mean that the information area would shake up and change in proportion to the elections each time. I'd just like to draw your attention to an interesting fact. It's another matter of setting up the agency's advice. In order not to keep everyone changing, it was proposed that the lots be determined for two, four, six years, but in principle for six years. As you know, our constitution predicts, I'm sure it's a constitutional provision that will last, that the elections are held regularly every four years. So it was left here on purpose for them longer so that they would not depend on parliament and on the will of parliament. In other words, today, however, it is believed that this would still be about political will, if the whole agency and its council changed every four years by changing parliament. Then the sensitive area would still depend on political moods. Here the idea that the field of media and the area of broadcasting permits is nevertheless of greater interest that there is certain stability and certain principles of principle, not that political interests, if I may say, even more pronounced in the most democratic way, are constantly changing it through Parliament's sovereignty. I give only one example, if it means something to me, that in Poland, in which this is resolved, Europe has just transferred to the Polish state that their solution is that parliament chooses a number of representatives in such a similar body that they do not call an agency, but there is. You know that Poland is a candidate for entry into the European Union in 2004 and that they have been transferred and told that this solution is seen as being controlled by parliament, or that it is not the best. There were other objections, perhaps in a minor order, mentioned things I didn't understand very well. Even Mussolini's corporate state was mentioned. It is true that the idea of a corporate state implies a delegative principle, but not every delegate principle is a corporate state. There's a lot of ways for people to delegate. I'm sorry, I'm seeing representatives of the disabled organisations on the delegate principle. Does that mean they represent some Mussolini concept? Not all disabled people can come to me, representatives of blind, deaf and deaf associations. They come by some principle of delegation. So you can't apply the principle of delegation here. But what is not in this remark taken into account -- these are not delegates, those who are representatives of these institutions. In my presentation, I read that these people are completely independent. So they were proposed to that agency by these institutions, the assembly elects one of the two proposed persons, but they are not delegates. It's just the opposite, they're just chosen by these institutions, but they're independent in work. Once again, honourable MPs, I would underline that member of the law, the law specifically says that these people are independent. They are not responding to either the National Assembly of Serbia or the Executive Council of Vojvodina, they are from the moment they were elected, independent. Take a look at a certain legal provision in this proposal. Furthermore, one of the remarks was that he was not going to make a deal. I wouldn't do it that way. It's a new institution, a new procedure. Every day we introduce some institutions into our society. Why don't people make a deal? As far as the church's objections are concerned, this was an explicit request from the church, and in this case, the SPC. Over a number of proposals addressed to me, as Deputy Prime Minister, asked very explicitly, and I conducted that conversation. In that version they proposed, it seemed to me that there would be a constitutional violation of the equality of churches in our country. They can freely transfer that SPC representatives believe that in agreement with other churches and religious communities they can successfully resolve this, so they will agree. This was a request from the church communities themselves, which we accepted. They believe that during the period when the church was discriminated against and lived in a non-Lay state rather than in a political atheist state, which carried out a process of atheisation, as a political definition, that the church was so disabled that they were somehow denied many rights, including the right to be properly represented, or their activities in the media, particularly on RTS. You have seen that we have adopted a solution that is not common in Europe in one part. We let them have local radio stations. The SPC has, for example, at least two such radio stations, and we've erased the part that prohibits church communities from having TV channels, although frankly, given the current situation, it's not very likely that it will happen quickly, but it's generally possible that they too compete. It's a solution you have somewhere and you don't have anywhere in Europe, but we felt that because of the specificity, it was necessary. As far as Mr. Angelkovic's remarks are concerned, it is true that the telecommunications law is necessary. The objection is justified. The Telecommunications Act is over, only the last details of the law are being introduced. You'll have that law in front of you soon, he's done. You have my promise that he's done. It's true that the first person needs to get the frequency and then the right to broadcast. Mr. Angelkovic turned it around a little bit and asked if those who get the right to broadcast would be privileged, no. Simply, the law will begin to be realized to the point to which it can. But he has to wait for the telecommunications law, or that agency, in terms of full realization. Because, of course, you get the frequency first and then you go see if you have the right to broadcast. The reason why we have proposed this law at such a rate, or why it is going through an emergency procedure, is because of the enormous pressure of the public and the world. There's a lot of anxiety in our public, a lot of pressure. Even my promise, when he was withdrawn for the first time from the procedure, that no later than eight to nine days would appear in the procedure, many in the public with skepticism accepted. There's a huge interest in the media and our public. Objectively speaking, this law is more important in a political sense, although I do not underestimate the telecommunications law, but it speaks more of technical conditions. Mr. Angelkovic also asked the number of radios and TV stations. Part of what he said is true. It's not right that Mr. Valjanovski portrayed Mr. Valjanovski as president of the task force as someone who doesn't know new technologies, which is absolutely not true. This is about something else. At this point we're talking about an existing technological mode of broadcasting, we're talking about analog technique. The whole other thing is when one day we move on to digital techniques, then what he said is true. Then there'll be a huge number of places on the air and we can only strive for that moment. By the way, there'll be a much better quality of information transmission. But for now, we have not yet reached that point of technological evolution and the telecommunications law and agencies will telecommunicate according to the existing technical and other conditions exactly do this -- the radio-referencing plan. She will determine what is possible to travel from the canal. It will also be before you MPs of the Serbian Parliament. You will later be able to verify, in public -- whether we did our job properly. It will be done by experts, or so-called experts. coverage range, frequency range. That's what telecommunications experts will do. There's no reason why these people don't give you the maximum number of radios and TV frequencies possible, or to deny them, because as you know, there's a great interest in exploiting all the potentials that exist. For a moment, I leave a completely open question and I draw your attention that virtually at this moment, the collapse of Yugoslavia has not regulated the issue and all the citizens of Vojvodina know it. Someone who lives near the Croatian border, let's say in Somboro, there is a TV coverage. But it's one quite another topic to be dealt with by the federal state. We don't have one agreement, the state is created in the former Yugoslavia, especially in Vojvodina, where the field configuration extends the emitters and can cover more, and you know that there is a strong coverage of these signals, which shows that there must also be some agreement. The question and cable networks were also raised. An example of Hungary and the Netherlands is given. I warn you of a member of the 40th Law. It's about cable TV. As far as the other objections are concerned, I would like to reply to the remarks of MP Svirčević, as well as certain objections from the SVM parliamentary group. The 70:30 compromise was made precisely because of the requirements of the Vojvodina. Most TV programs will objectively broadcast RTS. To speak openly and honestly -- how many percent of the RTS programme in Vojvodina are citizens looking at. They're looking at practically the whole program. You know that according to the existing conditions, the production of the programme even in our poverty is very expensive. RTS's hour of production costs the hardest 50,000 euros. That's very expensive. Obviously, those who produce the program must have some compensation. As to how it will be filled in and the subscription will be realized to leave it and see how it will be. Exactly what is said is that the subscription went from Subotica to the south becoming weaker and weaker, but we are entering a new time and it is possible that the level of the subscription will be leveled and that it will be better realised. Finally, there was also a political issue of the SPS parliamentary group -- which is why the subscription is being reintroduced, when our promise was that it would not be. Our promise was that people wouldn't pay a subscription to that TV we had for over a year. So this television that the citizens had had had no character in their television. [[growls]] The moment television is increasingly in the interest of all Serbian citizens, the question arises... I'm going to tell you frankly -- you can, for political reasons, open this question up to your will because this is a place for great demagogy. [[growls]] But I'm going to ask the citizens of Serbia, on TV like this, and they're watching this on TV -- whether they want their overall information to depend on a few rich people who will own private channels. Yes or no? They've already had opportunities to see how a channel owner can use his channel, often in a way that suits him most, of course not always but occasionally. Whether they want to be informed, on television, totally dependent on private media or want to have a public service that they will finance. I've already said it, and I think I've been fair -- ideal television we haven't got yet, RTS, and we're not going to have it anytime soon. It is important that it looks better and respects the remarks of all those who are dissatisfied with the way the information program works. So let's go to one condition when she'll look better. As far as SVM is concerned, a number of questions have been raised. Europe does not know this number of local public services. You said it yourself. This is due to Serbia's great specificity. , In this Serbia is unique in Europe. Many were limited that we even suggest the existence of a public diffusion service at the level of the municipality. In other words, a huge number of municipalities have entered their televisions with their throats and prefer that, openly speaking, they do not pay at all. People who work here, mostly complain that they're underpaid and constantly have financial problems, and the question is, in principle, is our country rich enough to do this? This law pushes into privatisation, provided you get the frequency, of course, and in fact, it's given a four-year deadline, when it needs to be formed in a different way. Please, no one prevents the municipality from buying time with a later privatised local radio television, even agreeing with the owner, if he has financial interest, to transfer sessions of the Assembly. And please, by law, look at the member, the obligation of the local media to convey those political events etc. but in the broadest sense, but, you know, the municipality also likes to have, as some like RTS all day long to pass on one party's sessions, or a party's statement, and some municipalities would like to spend all day on a local level just showing what the municipal government is doing specifically. But we need to avoid such a system, we need to go into a system that will still function in the interests of all citizens, including those who have not voted specifically for that power. Here, I am finishing, thanking the MPs for their constructive remarks. I ask you to take these perfectly well-intentioned answers exclusively as a certain explanation of what this law proposes. I don't, of course, have any illusions. For political reasons, someone will always attack this law, but it really is my human conviction, a truly sincere human belief that the representatives of the opposition in this assembly have reason to support this law, because it is essentially in the interest of all the citizens of this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22688	We are moving on to a debate in order of registered Members of the People's Parliament. The first on the list is MP Anton Biachi. He doesn't want to talk now. Next on the list is the messenger of the people Adam Uroshevic, and after him the messenger of the people, Pal Shandor.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22689	The respected presidency, brothers and sisters of Serbs, respected representatives of national minorities and ethnicities, considering the proposed text of the Law on Broadcasting, MPs of the Soviet Union have seen a series of inconsistencies, inconsistencies and contradictions, which I will point to on behalf of the Soviet Parliament group. The Law on Broadcasting does not treat the Republic of Serbia as a comprehensive state, but is related only to part of the Republic, without autonomous provinces, Vojvodina and Kosovo and Metohija. From the aspect of the alienation of Vojvodina's broadcasting and non-treatment of Kosovo and Metohija, this law is a political basis for further disintegration of the Republic of Serbia, which is particularly reflected in Articles 23 and 94. Also, by favouring state and non-governmental property over private ownership of informational texts, there is no equal treatment of all types of ownership, particularly in Articles 67, 95, 96, 119 and 126. The law is inconsistencies in many elements, with attitudes that exclude one another. For example, sponsorship and foreign capital, as a donation, are banned in several members of this law, so that members of the 95th define that "civil radio and TV stations can provide funds for work from donations, contributions from citizens, sponsorship and other sources of income. In the case of local information funds, the founder of which is the municipality's assembly, Articles 119 and 126 are intended to continue their work after public competition for the assignment of frequencies, with the obligation to comply with the law in the next year. For private means of informing such provisions are not foreseen. As regards complaints, performances and objections to the Agency's decisions, they are intended to be submitted to the body, without the possibility of second-degree arbitration on the basis of a decision taken by the Agency by the broadcaster's appeal; therefore, the Agency's decision is not allowed to appeal, but merely an administrative dispute. In Article 29, a clear and visible conflict with Article 25 of the Law, given that Article 25 defines that membership in the Agency's council is not compatible with political functions, and Article 29 clearly defines that a member of the Council cannot be resolved "because of political or other beliefs, or membership in a political organisation". I would like to remind you that membership in a political organisation, regardless of whether it is a function, involves also implementing the policy of the organisation, which absolutely denies the view that the members of the agency's council represent only experts in this area, who objectively apply the law. Article 36 provides for the Agency to publish an annual report on its work. We ask the question - is it essential to publish a work report, or to assess the results of this work, and who gives an assessment of the agency's work? Article 42(2) of the proposed law states that the holder of the programme's broadcasting permit cannot be a political party, organisation or coalition, as well as a legal person whose founder is a political party, organisation or coalition. If he is the founder of local public services of the municipality, does this mean that the party or coalition that is in power in that municipality does not represent a political group that, in the sense of this member, is forbidden to establish an informative note? An unfair relationship with the forms of ownership is also proved to be a member of the 67th Law. The public service of the Republic of Serbia and the radio and TV stations of local and regional communities, as well as radio and TV stations of the civil sector, pay only compensation for a permit for a broadcasting station, and are freed from payment of programme broadcasting fees. Only private radios and TV stations and stations of churches and religious communities, of course, have the obligation to pay programme broadcasting fees until the return process is completed. We remind you that the financing of the radio and TV stations of the local community is made from the resources of citizens, and through the founders of local self-government, i.e. ruling parties or coalitions, and are directly in the role of the group in power. Article 94 created the conditions of secession of the Vojvodina Broadcasting Institute from the Serbian Broadcasting Institute; in this way it was taken a step further in the separatist aspirations of political leaders of some parties in Vojvodina, as the authorities that will be formed under Vojvodina's broadcasting will also attach to the partial interests of a part of the territory of the Republic. This is, by all accounts, a compromise with the separatist forces, which suggested a break-up of RTS a few months ago with a system of information in Vojvodina. This law proposes equalising the right of informational texts, the founders of which are non-governmental organisations or associations of citizens with public broadcasting rights, because they have been released from payments for the use of programme broadcasting. The thesis that these are non-profit information organisations is manipulation, since implementation of sponsor and donor policies providing means of working brings significant investment into these information houses. Article 96 defines that the Director and the Chief and Responsible Editors of the opinion of local or regional communities cannot be MPs, committees, or members of the local executive authorities. However, it is clear to all that the leaders of these institutions must implement the policy of the founders of the vote, which means the majority parties or coalitions in the municipality. There is no doubt in any element that such a message will be extended by the hand, as so far, of the current authorities and that there is nothing from the freedom of the media. Among the 26 points of the criminal provisions of this law, it is very easy to find an opportunity to directly affect the editorial policy of informational texts. In particular, this is a major danger given that members of NGOs and the Government are in a position to implement the same ruling policy and that NGOs, which were founded by their funds, will not be eligible for competition from private radios and TV stations and will directly influence the punishment and closure of private information funds through their members of the Agency's board. To recap, Serbia's Broadcasting Law is an expression of Serbia's ruling DOS coalition's desire to shut down free media, primarily privately owned, and to speed up the creation of municipal radios and TV stations and read by NGOs that would be in the role of promoting the ruling policy for the upcoming elections. This law does not create conditions for the development of information texts, particularly private ownership, regardless of the government's declaration of privatisation in all areas of social life. When it comes to political interest, i.e. the propaganda of the current government, then general definitions are forgotten and the priority becomes those organisations that will support the party's or coalition in power. For the abovementioned reasons, the MPs of the Soviet Union will not support the draft law on broadcasting in principle, while concrete objections will be defined according to their amendments to be tabled. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22690	The word of the messenger of the people, Pal Shandor, followed by the messenger of the people, Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22691	Dear colleagues, I feel the need to say a few words about this law that changed its appearance from Sunday to Sunday and we have received a final version that is now worth talking about. I think that the law is in principle and generally acceptable, but that several details, especially those concerning members of national minorities, are not acceptable to me because there are no guaranteed mechanisms that members of national minorities will be represented in individual bodies. First of all, I'm thinking about advice, board of directors and program advice. This law, like all laws that have been so far, simply does not realise that more than one third of the population of this country are members of national minorities. He does not guarantee the mechanisms that they are present in any way, at least in one of these bodies that the law determines. This, that members of the council, under point 7), will choose domestic NGOs and associations of citizens who are primarily concerned with the protection of freedom and rights of speech, the protection of the rights of national and ethnic minorities and the protection of children's rights, and that three so many different spheres will be able to agree on a common candidate who will eventually be a member of the minority, it is absolutely amazing for me, that it will be the one from among the ranks of members of the national minorities. So I think, listening to one part of my fellow Members, that it would be good to expand the advice from two more places; I think that the representatives of today's opposition, and we may be the opposition to you tomorrow to have a member in that council. It means that representatives of the current opposition and representatives of national minorities have a member in this council. Because if you look at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, it's always the day-to-day government; the Assembly of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina, that's what power is again. The government of the Republic of Serbia naturally stems from that parliamentary majority that the Assembly has and that is the same, it is the same political omen, and the Executive Greater AP of Vojvodina by nature things have the same political premise as the Assembly. The Assembly cannot vote the proposal unless it has the necessary majority, which will say that today's government actually has four very direct opposition men. I think it would be good if these numbers here weren't too rigid, to say that the minority members representing one third or more of the third of the population have one member there, so let all the members of the minorities, which means Hungarians, Serbs, Romanians, or Hungarians, Croats, Romanians, Russian, Slovaks, Bosniaks, etc., to agree on who that will be. But let's let that big minority corps negotiate, at this seventh point, with those who care about the protection of children, so those who care about the protection of freedom of speech, I think they're so different categories that there's actually no agreement between them. Perhaps someone from the minority can be elected, if proposed by an organization involved in child protection. I don't think that's the way it should be done. Therefore, I am in favour of the presence of minority members in this council, if at all possible, if the Government can react there. I don't think it would be bad for you to accept any of these amendments or for the government to propose them yourself. Secondly, I think, no matter what the colleagues have said, respecting the government's reasons, that 100% of the Vojvodina subscription should remain in Vojvodina, and I'll say why. You have a completely absurd situation that no war has been waged on Vojvodina territory, and that Vojvodina TV, which, in its time, the citizens of Vojvodina funded from their budget, means independent of those that are south of Sava and Danube, has been brought down. In Kosovo, the television building was not torn down, and where the war was not and where the example of multinational living was best, that's where NATO brought down television. I agree that the software policy of that house wasn't good, but they should have changed, the editors, not to bring down the building itself, the technique, the whole infrastructure, etc. If the opinion that from this joint RTS subscription is one part of the funds other than these percentages that are proposed here is to return to the building, possibly if we get some donations or something else to do, that we get into the situation we were in, then it's acceptable. If with this reduced rate of subscription we're just going to have to rebuild the building that was torn down because of what happened, I think it's very difficult and that we're coming into a very awkward situation. Vojvodina did build that building out of her couples, and now after that in her inventory when she's making a partial balance she won't be; and the damage is huge, someone said it was the best studio, the most modern equipment, and it was certainly so. Just to look back at this Article 96: I think that Article 96, which refers to local media established by local self-government authorities, would have to be in accordance with Article 25, where it is said who cannot be (I am saying that Mr. Korac hears) means who cannot be a member of the council and who could not be in office in public enterprises, means director, editor-in-chief, etc. Mr. Korać, I don't think even the vice-president's mates could be chief and responsible editors; it means, in local media; Mr. Kasa's wife is, as far as I know, the chief and responsible editor of municipal media in Subotica, or Radio Subotica. Therefore, there is no exclusive position in this Article 96. So Mr. Biachi can't be there director and president of the council and I don't know what, but that's why the wife of the Deputy Prime Minister can be the editor-in-chief. I think these criteria that rule out who can't be in the media, or on the council, should be strictly applied to these media in the bar; that's even worse there. This then means that it does not make sense that a person who is a mate, a parent, a child, or an auxiliary relative is either the editor in charge or someone who decides in the local media. I think it's acceptable for the government and that it shouldn't allow situations like this to happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22692	The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj has the word, followed by the People's Messenger Aleksandar Radosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22693	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I expected that we would receive a more meaningful response from the Vice-President of the Government of Korać to the objections made at the beginning of this debate. I have to say, I'm pretty disappointed because we haven't heard a single answer based on legal, professional embodies. Again only on good desires; and it will be good, it will be like this; these are all good desires on the basis of mere promises. On the occasion of the radio-television subscription, which is now being reintroduced, Zarko Korac denies that earlier all opposition parties, particularly the opposition DOS parties, had promised to abolish the radio-television subscription and he said -- the promise was that citizens would not pay that television they had. That's not true. You promised there'd be no subscription. That TV that the citizens had was bad, very bad. From 1990 to 2000, state television was absolutely dominated by socialists and later by JUL. Even JUL took control at one point and from the Socialists. We radicals tried to change that, and when we failed, Tomislav Nikolic and Aleksandar Vukic, as our representatives of the Management Board, resigned; and we repeatedly criticised it publicly. Even two or three times from my press conferences, I chased down a national TV team and I didn't allow them to attend because of unobstructed information. But at the time of socialist domination, there were various periods. There have been periods of complete blockade of the opposition and the period of partial release of the opposition into information and political programmes. That could be sorted exactly by years. By 1994 it was relativelylerable, there were opposition in various shows, in various programmes, all opposition parliamentary parties. Before the end of 1994, 1995 and 1996, it was the time of the opposition's absolute blockade. The most blocked was the Serbian Radical Party. And in 1997 and 1998, the time of the blockade and the opposition was again very often in public television programmes. Unfortunately, in 1999 and 2000, the situation deteriorated again. However, at a time when socialists and juries dominated state television and when the opposition was blocked, there was an alternative, Studio "B", and if Studio "B" was blocked, then TV "Politika"; therefore, there was the possibility that in the same way the authorities responded via the ether, responded to the regime. Since you came to power, especially since Bojana Lekic became the main and responsible editor of the state television information programme, the opposition has been absolutely blocked, the Serbian Radical Party in particular. No Serbian radical has ever participated in any TV show since the December 2000 elections. You may think it's a good thing, but that's what you should say publicly here, Deputy Prime Minister - the Serbian Radical Party should not be on any television, because it's in line with your ideology. Give it up, you're expecting applause, they're very nice applause, they confirm what I'm saying. However, the Serbian Radical Party is not only blocked on state television, but also on Study "B", mostly, sometimes giving us some information, so from this Serbian government communications bureau, Beba Popovic and the company call it by phone, you're closing, so the information goes at 7:00 and it's already gone at 10:00. There's never a single radical on TV. And, which is the specificity of our situation in relation to the civilized world, the two most dirty TVs in Serbia are two private televisions, Pink TV and BK TV. It's two of the farthest dirty TVs. I know how you criticized them earlier, but they're your only instrument today. Direct DOS creates their information-political program. First you threaten one, the other you take half your fortune, maybe now he listens to you all the way. Now even academicist Bogoljub Karic is also staging Master's degree; even some MPs from this assembly, I heard, share master's degrees. We'll talk about it, I promise.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22694	People's MP, please stick to the agenda theme.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22695	I stick to the subject, I answer to the Deputy Prime Minister for what he just said to the relevant MPs who criticized him, him and his project. Next, you're talking about selecting people who will be members of the agency's council, so for eight members, you have one criterion, and for the ninth member, you have another criterion. Eight members are elected by the National Assembly on a proposal of a particular factor (one more time, I will factor those factors) and the ninth of those eight chosen later. They're proposing him, these eight. So it's not possible at one point to choose all eight, but to make choices in phases. What political system does such a choice exist in? I don't know about such a political system. This is something that is new to both political practice and political theory. Then, here you predicted that there were two members from Vojvodina. One is proposed by the government of Vojvodina, and the other is proposed by the Assembly of Vojvodina. And for a member from Kosovo, you only propose one. Why one from Kosovo and Metohija, if two are from Vojvodina? Do you have an answer to that question? Kosovo and Metohija are currently under occupation, however, you have recognised elections in Kosovo and Metohija under occupation, you have led propaganda and in a certain way forced Kosovo Serbs to participate in these elections, you have recognised the results of these elections, you have maintained political relations with alleged Serbian representatives in that Kosovo parliament, and then it would be normal for one member of this council to elect the Vojvodina Assembly to elect another Kosovo Assembly. If one is elected by the Executive Greater Vojvodina, the other is elected by the Executive Greater Kosovo or the Government, as it is called. Then one solution can be introduced, to say -- from Kosovo and Metohija one can be an Albanian and another a Serb; from Vojvodina -- one Serb, and another a member of some of the national minorities, perhaps Hungary, since they are the most numerous. This would already be more rational, but you are proposing a solution for Vojvodina, and another solution for Kosovo and Metohija. On the other hand, you are pushing for Kosovo and Metohija to be mentioned together with Vojvodina in the Constitutional Charter that you are working on, so that Kosovo and Metohija are tighter on Serbia, to be less threatening than the definitive secession. That's what you had to predict in this law, if you're already going from that principle. A more rational solution was the one I pleaded for, that the Assembly, proportionate to the power of each parliamentary group, established the council, that it decides and that its composition corresponds to the proportional ratio of political forces; and then, on this issue, neither the AP Vojvodina nor the AP Kosovo and Metohija should be mixed, especially when there is state television in Novi Sad, which is now an integral part of Serbia's Radio-Television. In my opinion, in the understanding of the Serbian Radical Party, this television should be privatised, because there is no reason for state television or public television stations to exist in Novi Sad. There should be a lot of private television, so one, two or three private televisions that would have a frequency that covers the entire territory of Vojvodina. As far as the television subscription is concerned, I'd like to say a few more words about that. Not on your pre-election promises to end it, and at the time I was a member of the Serbian government, the only thing you attacked me for in public is a television subscription and a mobile phone tax. You've kept and doubled your fee, and your television subscription has been cancelled first, and now you're returning it, ten times the maximum amount. Now it's 210 dinars, and earlier the television subscription was 21 dinars. It was a railroad tax, mines and something else, and 21 dinar was television. When it's calculated as the value of the stamp, then that subscription was one mark, and now it's seven marks. Seven times the real value is that television subscription is more expensive, and now here you're not saying it's going to be charged at the electricity bill, but you're saying -- there's going to be a contract with a public firm, so it's going to be done through it. It could be electro-price, water and sewerage or some other utility service, it doesn't matter, the way they charge is the same. What's changed? Nothing important has changed, you have broken your pre-election promise, and now the subscription will be seven times more expensive than before, and there was reason for something new to happen. Since when there was television in Serbia until 2000, there was also a television subscription. All around 1997, there were state televisions and very few private ones in Serbia. There are now hundreds of private TVs in Serbia. What's the subscription for now? Why do you make someone charge a subscription to watch state television? Well -- says the man -- now I have to watch because I paid. Or to get into a situation where he's paying for something he might not be able to look at. Let's look at the current state television program. He used to be bad, and now he's much worse, more tenorous. Now he's more ideologically rigid, now we hear more hate speech. I'll show you a few examples. When Natasa Kandic, Sonja Biserko, Biljana Kovacevic-Vuco or Borka Pavicevic arrives on state television, the hate speech that we hear at that time is incomparably more difficult and intolerable than the hate speech from any phase of the Socialist rule. Absolutely! Even Milosevic's trial, a direct transmission, and in the break of comments Borka Pavicevic, who are amazing, incredible, and Tudjman's TV would not broadcast such comments at the time. You're saying that when deciding on the agency's council, the majority of votes are decided, with at least one vote from Vojvodina having to be in favour. What kind of a majority vote decision is that? Is that democracy? It's not democracy. It's a form of voting that is directly opposed to democracy. If all equal members of the board are agencies, then each vote must be equally valid. There's no question at all whose voice it is. Sometimes members can agree to vote in secret. How will you determine then if he voted for anyone from Vojvodina in a secret vote? It's impossible. That's not what you were thinking. Why? You didn't have a good lawyer on the team that prepared this legal text. You treat the issue of local self-government and predict that local self-government units can have their local radio and television stations again. That's wrong, for a number of reasons. We Serbian radicals have been pushing for years to ban units of local self-government from having their own radio and television stations. That's what we tried last time in the Information Act to bring in. In the draft of the law, it was in the draft, and this was expelled to the assembly, as coalition partners could not agree. What's the problem? First, what are very large abuses in local televisions, both financial and programming; which for those who have authority and power will be his private television. You have even introduced the mayoral system, the presidential system in municipalities, so now the power of the president of the municipality will be incredibly greater than it was before. And she had been exaggerated before, even as an uninstitutional power, she had no basis in law, but the president of the municipality was very often imposed by authority. Now it has institutional inconspicuous power. Second, large amounts of local self-government are being wasted on funding local radios and television stations and locals, primarily football clubs and perhaps other sports clubs. What's the most common interest in the presidents of the municipalities? That they have their own TV and their own sports club. (You have it among the ministers in the Serbian government. Here, a minister directly entered your First Football League. () Especially when it comes to people who are not some developed spiritual breadth, who do not read much, have little knowledge and concentrate where they have some youth falls, some complexes to cure. One who wasn't able to play sports in his youth would now be able to make up for it as a football club owner. Sports politician - disaster, local media politician - disaster. It should be prohibited by local self-government to have local media and to oblige them over a period of several years to privatise everything, those they have to sell, to have competition. This is where the Deputy Prime Minister talked about the problem that arises when big rich people have their own TV. It's a really big problem, and we see how that abuses the power of the media on both BK TV and Pink TV. It's being abused to the limit. It is misused by television owners stretching their interests. When the owner of BK or Pink TV pollutes with some public personality, he exerts his television to defeat an opponent who does not have it at his disposal. We've had examples like this. I don't appreciate much of what they've been up against. However, the principle is bad. Just slow down, one thing it says, and the other is what practice is and what practice it will be. Easy, easy. [[GROANING]] You say it won't work, but what you throw at the door will come back to your window. Now look at one example. In point 5, you say -- the rectors of the University of Republika Srpska, through a joint agreement, will propose one of their candidates for the agency's council. You didn't say here whether it was a state or all the universities. We have several private universities now, and there will be more. We are not far from assuming that the famous academician Bogoljub Karic becomes the head of his university and on that basis comes to you on the advice of broadcasting agencies and says - BK TV is a company, with it I have nothing, but I am here as head of university and I share master's titles to whom I need to, spread the competition among the MPs, whoever wishes under certain conditions becomes a magistrate. That's also one problem that can happen very easily in practice. Furthermore, there is talk of sexual commitment and banning discrimination in this regard. Gentlemen, there's only one form of sexual commitment, that you're having sex or that you're abstinent from sex. It's just a definition. Be careful, it's one principle of determination and variant that you define yourself for. Two variations within that principle. It's the only possible sexual commitment. By the choice of half the partners, etc., there is no commitment, there is God foresaw and therefore created man and wife. Of course, there are perversions, there's something that's against biological laws, but it's not sexual orientation, it's a disease. This disease can be biological, it can be psychosocial; when it comes to psychosocial nature, it's easier to treat, psychotherapy is possible. But when it's biological, it can also be cured, but by surgical intervention, by surgery, by changing the sex...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22696	Please return to the agenda, and this is the draft law on broadcasting.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22697	That's the darkness. It's about discrimination based on sexual definition. That's the darkness.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22698	That's not the point.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22699	That, therefore, can't be a matter of determination, but there can be another ban. If it's a kind of disease, it's not an infectious disease, it's not a dangerous disease that would be transmitted like plague, cholera, large goddesses, etc. No one must be persecuted, chicanized, harassed, physically oppressed, discriminated against under the law because he is sick of this disease. But to put him in a position to propagate it on state television as his commitment and to get new supporters in this way, it cannot be allowed in a civilized country. Of course, you'll say - it exists in the Netherlands, it exists in Denmark. Yes, but if these decadent societies are for us an example of reputation, then indeed our country must take care of its perspective. In this case, therefore, it should be forbidden to hate, because usually those people who are subject to sexual bias are not themselves to blame. No one has the right to oppress them for it. They can't show up and say it's our sexual commitment. Sexual commitment can be abstinence and it is for respect or sexual determination is hyperactivity on that plan, which is for even greater respect. Next, there's another issue here. If it's a matter of sexual commitment, whether two women or two men are going to commit an anti-natural fornication, then what's the difference when they do it with animals. Sexual delicacy can be -- a specific man for an animal, for a cow, for a goat, for a sheep, etc. Look how far this leads.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22700	People's MP, for the last time, I'm warning you to get back on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22701	You have a 21st order of discrimination.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22702	I know it's mentioned, but it's not a topic for analysis and consideration. You may find it interesting, but that's not the point.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22703	That's the theme of your marriage. I just want to let you know that you have thoughtlessly asked this legal text and that you have not studied all possible implications, and you have to. You had to have experts to analyze it in detail, every word, so you wouldn't grab your head afterwards. You're talking about a matter of public authority. We have had the opportunity to give public authority to social organisations and associations before in the political system. I'll give you a few examples. Public authority was given the Auto Moto Union of Serbia, or Yugoslavia, to issue green cards and to carry out other clean traffic jobs. Public authorities had associations of writers, literary translators, drama writers, drama artists, art artists, composers, etc. A whole series of intellectual - character professional organisations had the public authority to issue certificates based on which their member, although not employed anywhere, could regulate the issue of his job internship and often regular monthly collection of contributions to the work experience. These are the kind of public authority of certain organisations and associations of citizens, which you would say to NGOs, concerning their professions, their professions and which have complete meaning. However, you here so-called. to NGOs, and to social organisations and associations of citizens, as it is said in our language quite rightly, you give some public authority that is not at all relevant to the nature of their social position. You give them public authority in a completely different sphere. That's not working. Secondly, you've budgeted 500 million dinars each year in the name of funding so-called funding. NGOs. The moment they start funding from the state budget, they're no longer NGOs, they're government organizations. By giving money out of the budget to these organizations, the government is directly controlling them. I know cases that many NGOs that have received regularly large amounts of money from the close Serbian government; those who are not close to each other since the new year have not received any dinars, such as some fighting associations, although previously funded from budgets. - Voices from the O.R. ) I know that these newer fighting organisations from the 1991-1999 war are depriving funds from the budget. Maybe that's not entirely true. That's the kind of information that came to me, and that's why I'm talking about it. Furthermore, the social organization of a kind of character is G-17 and G-17 plus. It's also formed as a social organization, an NGO. But this NGO is a member of your political coalition. There is a union, an Association of Free and Independent Trade Unions of Serbia, which is a member of your political coalition and the president of that union is a minister in your government. This is a violation of social status and political reputation of the very concept of NGOs, i.e. social organisations and associations of citizens. You can't possibly convince me that NGOs in our system are really NGOs, especially if we have in mind that many of them have been intensively funded by Western governments and NGOs before. We have another question here that's very important, and I'm going to finish this part of the exposure with it. Of course, when there is a debate on amendments, there will be opportunities to get into every detail. It's a matter of political advertising. It's a good thing you've banned the advertising of political parties outside the election campaign. That's good. However, we have a practice that skillfully bypasses the very essence of this ad. For example, a political party appears as a financier or an orderer (even without paying) of certain television ads, which are in line with its programme, where it is not put out first. That question must be regulated more precisely by law. Secondly, the pre-election campaign should regulate the issue of political advertising. We did so in 2000 by passing a still valid electoral law, when on state television, it was precise how much political party has the right to a minute for political videos. Here one should avoid the situation in which one who has the most money broadcasts, such as the danger of what Deputy Prime Minister Korać said, that whoever is the richest has power in the sphere of broadcasting; who is the richest has the possibility in a pre-election campaign to achieve the most propaganda effects through the most dangerous media asset. Television is the most dangerous means of media manipulation. (President: I warn you of overstepping allowed time. ) Since Orvell, a large number of studies have been published in which television has appeared as the most dangerous means of media manipulation, brainwashing, ideological retraining, indoctrination, etc. Since television is so dangerous, it must be managed in an extremely elegant and subtle way as a social good.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22704	Right on line, MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22705	Mrs. Micic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will use my right to reply as a chance to explain some open questions that must be answered. First of all, I am referring to the status of representatives from the Kosovo area and the Metohija elected in the advice of the broadcasting agency, to suppressing hate speech that is directly specified by Article 21. It's a bill of law we're talking about. I think I have to explain the subscription issue one more time, since there have been some wrong interpretations. Therefore, the special status of Kosovo and Metohija was regulated by Resolution 1244, which the previous assembly of the republican parliament verified and which, on the basis of this verification, came into force, among other things. We didn't do it. I think we have talked here many times about everything that is happening in Kosovo and Metohija, about the causes of the problems that exist in Kosovo and Metohija, but it is clear that there are strong political reasons for finding a representative from Kosovo and Metohija in line with the advice of the broadcasting agency at the moment. Why one, not two? Because playing reality would be establishing the principle of equality between Vojvodina and Kosovo and Metohija right now. This country does not have much jurisdiction in Kosovo and Metohija. Fortunately, he has full jurisdiction in the space of another autonomous province, which is what I mean by Vojvodina. We, precisely by respecting the principle I was talking about - the principle of equality in the process of exercise of law, insisted that members of the council choose, or propose to the Assembly, the selection of one representative of the council that is engaged in Kosovo and Metohija. I think that's a reasonable solution. I am pleased that this solution has been supported by those people who have been professionally involved in the realization of this proposal by working on this law and those who expect this law to regulate the area of broadcasting. I think it takes political support. It would be important to make it clear to the public that we are, in fact, only following the policy we followed over the previous year and a half, the policy of preserving Kosovo and the Metohija in the existing state borders, through respecting the reality that it is and which is not the result of our operation, but of the inherited state. So, the special status of Kosovo has been established by Resolution 1244 and we must accept such a thing as our reality. The question of the subscription -- that's what we talked about -- it's not the exact sums that are cited as examples, 210 dinars today are not the same as 100 dinars two years ago, it's the minimum that RTS needs to function independently. The public service will not be on the budget and will therefore not depend on the will of the finance, government or assembly minister, but rather on the possibility of citizens financing such a thing. There is a great need for money and these needs will be met through both subscription and through commercial programmes that will be broadcast by public service. There is no sign of equality between public service and commercial television, because they are not the same obligation. Commercial television is not required to develop educational, school programs, cultural programs that are not commercial. In contrast, this obligation is a priority established for public service and therefore there is a difference in the form of funding. Commercial TV can broadcast 20% of the daily program as a commercial programme, while public service is allowed to be only 10% of the daily program...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22706	I'm warning you, time's over.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22707	... which will have a commercial character. And finally, Article 21 prevents commercial television from being misused in the way it may have been done so far. So TV owners can't abuse the frequency, or television as a medium, or a radio station as a medium, in some private war and reckoning. This is precise by Article 21, and we have strictly taken care of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22708	The word is by MP Aleksandar Radosavljevic, the DOS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22709	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected presidency, the area of broadcasting in Serbia has so far not been resolved by a special law. It was partly governed by the Radio-Television Act, which was passed in 1991 and during the past period, the law suffered small, almost cosmetic changes. In practice, the 1991 law was also a founding act of RTS, and the area of broadcasting and the right of legal and natural persons to deal with production and broadcasting of the programme only through the use of radio frequencies and obtaining permits from the government of the Republic of Serbia. The proposed reform of the broadcasting system is intended to pave the way for what relevant international and domestic organisations expect, which is primarily to assign the process to licenses and frequencies to be fair and public. Also, this law brings itself numerous large newspapers, particularly related to the regulation of broadcasting standards of broadcasting institutions and organisations in Serbia, which includes preventing chaos and introducing order in this area. Indeed, it was a lot of chaos and it was already a turn to put an end to it. The Law on Broadcasting meets internationally recognised standards and principles. This law first established a regulatory, independent body in Serbia, which is a broadcasting agency. The whole area is now left to the broadcasting agency, which will be an independent body composed of nine members (in the first version of 15 days ago 15) and will be appointed by the Serbian Parliament. The agency will have great powers to monitor radio-television programmes, licenses, fines, and even subtract frequencies. Under the draft law, members of the government of the Republic of Serbia, MPs, senior officials of political organisations cannot be members of the agency. That was almost unimaginable so far. Even some members predict that even close relatives to second - grade relatives cannot be members of the agency. A member of the agency may be a member of the political party, but while a member of the agency cannot serve as a political organisation. The final word on the election of members is given by the Serbian Parliament. It also appoints them in addition to monitoring the work of the media that got the license, subtracting frequencies, it will also take care of the program of these houses that also gave them permission. The Broadcasting Council will appoint members of the RTS Management Board, which will start with its transformation into public service from the moment of adoption of this law. So we're going to create a media house that no one in Serbia will ever be entitled to again, nor will they be able to say that it has a crucial influence. First of all, I mean political structures and authorities. For this future RTS, two television and three radio channels are foreseen, and funding a subscription that would be identical for all Serbian citizens, i.e. that would be the same amount. Now we've come to this crucial moment and question -- why the subscription again and whether it's against what we said in the election campaign. The subscription is being introduced because a new national radio-television is being set up that will not aim at manipulating citizens, disinformation them, feeding them hate language, but will aim at timely, impartially and accurately informing them about events in the country. But the programme of one national television is not just an information programme and it's not only made up of those shows that have purely political content. It must have its own production, its own programs or at least to restore the level that we had in the 1970s and '80s last century, what employees at RTS call the golden age of that house. Let's just remember -- the vast majority in this room grew up with this program, and it's really an honor and a pleasure to try to restore the reputation of a national house like RTS again. Knowing the power of electronic media, the previous government knowingly destroyed the national house, allowing criminals to become idols, that criteria of values almost overnight disappear. As our country was robbed, our national TV has become increasingly poor. If for no other reason, it must exist, at least for this reason, that money must be collected on this basis aimed at raising the quality of the work of national television and radio, by raising the value of what it produces and broadcasts. Another important thing about the subscription is that it is not, as our predecessors have done, automatically connected to an electric counter, so whether you have a receiver or not, you pay the TV subscription. The law clearly foresees the obligation of a public broadcasting institution to establish the registration of subscribers, and it is also an obligation for every person owned by a receiver to report it, and if he is no longer the owner to log it out. So those who represent themselves as protectors of interest, who say -- here, we're re-imposing citizens, something new that will burden their home budgets, if they're already so concerned about selling villas, houses, beaches, apartments, bars, all of what they've taken of these citizens over the past 10 years, let them give these citizens, and thus will certainly improve their ability to settle their obligations. Only if they do, will we believe in the honesty of what they're saying at the pay phone. To be honest, the Serbian ether today is the biggest flea in Europe: from turbo-neucus hyperproduction, ham, cultured and engaged national and professional programmes cannot be even more widespread and even less sustained on the overcrowded market, the way it is in Serbia. I say once again that it is not our goal to create party television with citizens' money, but our goal is to make national radio television public service, which will be financed by citizens, but also to work for citizens. The service will be maximumly separate from the possibility of any political organisation in this country. So, this law, along with these, brings a few more significant newspapers. It envisions preventing media concentration, given the importance of media in forming public opinion in Serbia, and throughout the world, predicts when the concentration can have a prevailing impact, and in certain cases it also prohibits. The law also provides for the regulation of advertising authorisation issues, which through the supply of production or certain goods, through the content and manner of advertising itself. A ban on advertising political organisations is also foreseen when they are not, that is, outside of election campaigns. A great deal of interest was also ruled by the government for the law because the area of electronic media in Serbia was completely disorganised, thanks to the law mentioned earlier. Over 1,000 radio and TV houses in Serbia exist, broadcasting their programmes. They will be able to continue their work, but only when they apply for the competition and get their licenses. Everyone will have to go through a public competition, whether they had licenses or only half permits; and even we have cases that there are houses in Serbia that work without the permits. That's the case in Vojvodina. There are numerous pirate TVs and radio stations, and to make evil bigger, absurd, they even have their own association. Imagine those who work past the law joining together! A few days ago, we had a chance to see even their amendments to the bill. For all of them, there will now be a public competition for the allocation of frequencies, which will predict conditions, which will have to be electronic media to meet in order to get permission. The media that are competing will have to write exactly what programming concept they will have to fill with their radio, or television programme, to hand over a technical and financial draft. So we're practically passing a law that's going to be a filter. To be honest, this process will not be able to be implemented immediately, as it cannot be resolved in the same day nearly 1,000 houses in Serbia. The fall of communism in Serbia at the end of 2000 marked a dramatic end to then the usual persecution of journalists in our country. However, the legal framework for media work has not changed more significantly. The existing system continues to favour larger electronic media; a decade of harassment, legal abuse, fines, and confiscation during the previous regime -- it has made the media quite weak in Serbia. Without the government's support, most independent media, electronic media in Serbia, will not have enough resources to continue their work. The adoption and application of the law on broadcasting are beyond necessary, to ensure that a whole series of electronic media in Serbia survives, financially, during this difficult period of transition that our country must go through. Supporting the development and strengthening of independent media is essential for the ongoing process of reform and integration of our country into pan-European institutions. By adopting the Law on Broadcasting, Serbia will create an effective legal framework for electronic media and thus make a key contribution to the democratisation of our society. I urge you to vote for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22710	Thank you. The word is by MP Milos Nesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22711	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Minister is gone. Listening to Mr. Zarko Korac, vice president in the government of the Republic of Serbia, when he talks about the draft law on broadcasting, he would say that everything is fine. This reminded me of the very frequent stages of Mr Tadic, the federal minister of telecommunications, who spoke about the Law on Telecommunications at the federal level -- he also used the words that this law has been done in European countries for four or five years, and that within six months, we will pass this law that will be as high-quality as these laws in our European countries. However, if you look a little closer at the draft law on broadcasting (we've listened long enough to nine versions, and now we have a tenth version of this law) and looking at some members I don't think it stands, so I wonder, what did the laws of the first, second, third and other versions look like, up to the tenth version, when this tenth version, in my opinion, is very bad. After all, it is no wonder that it is bad, when practically this law was done by NGOs financed from abroad, and the main coordinator of this law is practically the politician Rade Veljanovski, director of Radio Belgrade, our former friend from the Union of Communists. I'm not saying he doesn't know that, but I can rightly say that I know people in the Republic of Serbia who know this matter much better. In this regard, I would like to say that the able-bodied government to draft laws should hire from state bodies lawyers and experts from areas covered by this law and respected lawyers and experts in the Republic of Serbia. The current current current government is demanding that the broadcasting law be passed by emergency procedure. The reasons for the law's adoption are the following reasons -- "unregulated and uncontrolled use of radio spectrum in the territory of the Republic of Serbia allows hundreds of radios and TV stations to operate illegally. By October 5, 2000, as I was personally familiar with it, i.e. eight years before the unprecedented sanctions, around 600 radios and TV stations worked in Serbia, and the largest number of owners of these stations paid frequency fees, and now in just 18 months, the new authorities of the proradilon 500 radios and TV stations, but rarely anyone who pays frequency fees; I think the state lost huge income. I wonder why? Gentlemen, it is known that the Ministry of Transport and Telecommunications keeps extensive records of about 10,000 radio amateurs. The records include documents on the examinations submitted for the corresponding fee, citizenship assurance, confirmation that no investigation is conducted, and then the Ministry of Radio and Radio Station Licenses and, in the end, it is prescribed that technical checks are carried out each year. The Republic Ministry of Transport and Communications has done nothing to bring order into the work of hundreds of radios and TV stations and to collect frequency charges. In the Ministry of Transport and Telecommunications there is no record of owners of over 1,000 radios and TV stations, and it is obvious from the data reported on the stations themselves that radio amateurs are more dangerous under the DOS regime than over 1,000 illegal radios and TV stations. The reason for number 2 states that the functioning of electronic media must be in the role of the overall development of democracy and the harmonious development of society, i.e. the significant impact on the achievement of freedom and the rights of citizens, which are mentioned in the above, and the adoption of laws by means of an urgent procedure would avoid such adverse consequences. However, there is no explanation for any of the only reasons why the freedoms and human rights of citizens are at stake. Gentlemen, the real reasons for the adoption of the broadcasting law by emergency procedure are the fact that the DOS government had the full support of a large number, over 1,000 radios and TV stations; however, because of great promises and major fraud towards them, that support ceases. As elections are closer at all levels, the government has made it clear by adopting the law by emergency procedure to TV stations what is expected of them, unless they are obedient. This is evident from the Agency's provisions on the conduct of the submissions, Article 53 paragraph 1 point 5, which reads - if the applicant also broadcasts a radio and TV programme at the time of the call for public competition, the advice will take into account that applicant's contribution to the development of democratic relations and pluralism of opinion, raising the general and educational level and achieving the principle of regulating relations in the field of broadcasting in the previous broadcasting period. The truth is, in this tenth version, this is only explained in one different way. Gentlemen, you want to reward your democracy, we will see, and the proof of this claim is also the provision of a member of 119 who legalizes crime, and it says: "Radio and, or TV stations, which, at the time of the entry into force of this law, are broadcasting the programme until the end of an appropriate public competition for the issue of programme broadcasting permits, which will be announced in accordance with the provisions of this law." That shouldn't be in the law. Gentlemen, you will, or we want to enter Europe, but this proposal for a law on broadcasting will not open the way for us, because it was not done in accordance with the recommendation of the Council of Europe Committee on the Independence and Function of Regulatory Authorities in the area of broadcasting, which was adopted in December 2000. Here, these are the recommendations. According to the recommendation, the first task of regulatory bodies, not bodies, is to issue licences for the broadcasting of programmes, to sign contracts on the basis of clear, legally established conditions, basic conditions and criteria for issuing licences for the broadcasting of programmes, and all in order to minimise the possibility of arbitrary decision-making. You see how Europe thinks of us, and I ask you, where do we find these criteria in the law? We can do this to one broadcaster, according to the other, everything depends on whether, as I said, he was loyal to the Government of the Republic of Serbia at the time of the broadcast. According to the same recommendation, the second task of regulatory authorities is to control compliance with the conditions laid down by law and the conditions for the broadcasting of programmes issued to broadcasting organisations, and the Law on Broadcasting has not been made in accordance with the recommendation of the Council of Europe Committee of Ministers on guaranteeing the independence of public electronic broadcasting, adopted since September 1996. I would ask only two more questions (and I am sorry that there is no minister): is there a constitutional basis for the establishment of a broadcasting agency with the powers set out in Article 8? Whether there is a constitutional basis that a republican and regional broadcasting facility can be the carrier of a public broadcasting service, because of Article 65. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia states that the law lays down the conditions and the way in which public services are being trained. There is a big fundamental difference between public service and public service. There is no legal basis for the establishment of a republican broadcasting agency for the exercise of public authority, Article 6 and for the establishment of broadcasting institutions of public service, Article 76. Article 8 paragraph 1 of the Law states - a Republic Broadcasting Agency brings a strategy for the development of broadcasting in the Republic of Serbia with the consent of the Government, while Article 9 of the Law, the agency in co-operation with the regulatory body responsible for telecommunications, brings a strategy for the development of broadcasting in the Republic of Serbia. In Article 8(2), the Agency shall carry out the tasks referred to in point (1) of Article 1(3) and (6) of this Article as entrusted tasks. I say, check, that in all countries of Europe, this brings this assembly - a development strategy. It may be the preparation of both the regulatory authority and the regulatory body and the agencies, but the assembly brings it. Article 11 of the Law provides that the Agency shall issue a permit for the broadcasting of programmes according to the criteria set out in this Law. The same provision was given in the recommendation of the European Ministers' Committee on the Independence and Function of Regulatory Authorities, on broadcasting relations. However, no criteria are laid down in the law. I'll be brief. Authorisations for broadcasting programmes shall be issued by the regulatory authorities through public advertisements providing conditions, types of services, minimum duration of the programme, geographical coverage, funding method, frequency charges and programme broadcasting fees, technical parameters to be met, then structure, owners, as well as company capital, as well as the content of the application and documentation to be submitted and the content and duration of the programme proposed. If someone does not want to abuse the law, then the law must be clear; however, as the DOS government wants to rule through regulations to give the agency the right to make recommendations and binding instructions for broadcasting organisations, in order to more effectively implement broadcasting policy in the Republic of Serbia. I'm not a wrong member, this is version nine, and I didn't get to read it this morning. Articles 19, 20 and 21, as well as others, provide that the agency is to be taken care of. Please, I think Mile the Korean might learn something from what I'm saying. Article 19, 20, 21, as well as others, provides that the agency is to be taken care of. Since the agency has the authority of the state, then it has to control law enforcement and others, and it can't be old. The Agency cannot control the programme before broadcasting, because it would be the introduction of censorship. In Article 5. The bill sets out that the Agency and the regulatory body responsible for the telecommunications area coordinate their work in order to use radio spectrum rationally and efficiently. As the rational and efficient use of frequencies is then ensured, if the desired area per Article 47(3) is to cover 60% of the population, while for public broadcasting service it is 90%. For civil spectrum broadcasters and local regional stations, there is no percentage set at all. I'm not finished yet, gentlemen; if you'd like, I can continue later, but you'd better listen to me now than later. Current government, the government has already determined which radio and television stations will receive programme broadcasting permits, and the proof of this is a member of the 56th, which states that the broadcaster is required to start broadcasting the programme no later than 60 days after the day of receiving the programme's broadcasting permit, with it unable to start broadcasting the programme before it meets all conditions for starting work. Well, who can install both the transmitter and the antenna and the repeater within 60 days, maybe they need an aphyrtic repeater somewhere; no one can do that. So those who worked, they'll get permission. In the end, gentlemen, Ukon about broadcasting has not been done in accordance with the Committee's recommendation, but I have stressed it twice. Show me only one provision that implements the recommendation of the Council of Europe Committee of Ministers from guaranteeing the independence of public electronic broadcasting; that is an obligation for all countries that want to join the Council of Europe. You had to take a look at this. Let me ask you, gentlemen, where is your supervisory board, which is composed of representatives of parliamentary parties, to be appointed, which is one of the important parts of this recommendation; where in the law provisions that provide for equality in public electronic media, and that is to the parliamentary parties with the parties in power, which is also one of the important facts mentioned; and, finally, in Article 113 of the Broadcasting Act, all penalties are given as a violation and ranging from 50 to 200,000 dinars, and this has not been done in any law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22712	The presentation of MP Velimir Simonovic will be heard after the break. Short notice: an extension of the 40th session of the Legislative Committee will be held in the session session session in Hall 73 on the third floor. I'm setting a break until 3:10 p.m. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please insert identification cards into your MPs to determine the quorum. I find that the application of the electronic system has established that we have a quorum and we can continue the principle debate on the proposal for a law on broadcasting according to the application for the word of the MPs. The word has a folk MP Velimir Simonovic, and the next one registered for the word is MP Milos Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22714	Ladies and gentlemen, since I've written 15 amendments to this bill, I'm not going to speak any longer, I just want to make a few notes of principle nature. Compared to the Council of Europe and that convention on television, in general, on broadcasting, I think we've given more than we're asked to, and somewhere we may have misread and not given as much as we're asked to. What's this about? By adopting the Convention on Transboundary Television of the Council of Europe, which has so far ratified 23 European countries, all member states of the European Union have been invited to accept a single system of responsibility for the offered audio visual content that will be deprived of any territorial restrictions on broadcasting throughout Europe. That is why respect for the principles defined by the recommendations of the Council of Europe's Committee of Ministers in the field of media, culture, and audiovisual creation is necessary. However, since not all countries have the same size of territory, the same number of TV subscribers, the world language, the same strategy and the development of broadcasting and the like, broad opportunities have been given to each country to bring its own legal legislation from this area, so the document is given in the form of a recommendation, not a directive. As we wish to enter, and then join the European Union of the Council of Europe, perhaps by the end of this year, then the recommendations of the Council of Europe are binding for us. However, how are they raised in the draft law on broadcasting that is now in front of the Assembly? In the case of tasks and powers of the regulatory authority in the proposed law, they should be carried out by the Broadcasting Agency or the Council. The Council is responsible for issuing permits to broadcast private radio televisions, but the recommendations of the Council of Europe are also said - explicitly, that the regulatory body must not have any influence on editorial policy, any media, but only supervision. State television is not subject to the procedure for obtaining a permit, for broadcasting, so nothing to do with the regulatory authority has to do with it. The proposed law on broadcasting, however, provides that the aforementioned Council should also be the founder of the founding rights over state broadcasting where it also sets up the board of directors and, indirectly, all editors, which indirectly affects editorial policy. The international recommendation by the Council of Europe's media ministers also refers to the way state television is financed. However, we don't want to have state television with this law and I don't understand why we're giving up state television at all. Since any financing of public service activities by the state is considered state aid, it is very important to control the use and assistance by a state independent body, which is why it is recommended that a special regulatory authority be formed for that purpose. The claim that the state cannot have its own broadcasting, but it can transform itself into a public service, does not stand so and is not recommended by the advice that this must be so. Also, the recommendations of the European Union Ministers' Committee of Ministers on guaranteeing the independence of the public media and adopted on 11 September 1966 are free to define the way in which public media funding, its supervision and control of the spending of State budget funds were financed, in line with the Amsterdam Treaty protocol, which primarily had the information programme whose editorial policy should not be controlled by the ruling regime or individual political parties and must be equally accessible to all policy options. The recommendations of the Council of Evope, this is important, explicitly said (point 67). Leaves) "As soon as the government provides access to public electronic communications for its official communications, a certain part of the programme must be automatically allocated to opposition groups immediately. The right to an answer should be defined in such a way that different political groups that have parliamentary representatives can express their views." The recommendations of the Council of Europe here are best read in their essence, which means that the functioning of the public electronic message comes down to the equal representation of all political options, not the independent and free evaluations of journalists who need to decide on this representation based on their own findings. It is interesting that the bill does not foresee this attitude at all. The opposition is not mentioned anywhere, nor in article 78 on specific obligations for the production of an information programme, although someone would say that you might be implicated and mentioned. I'd still say something about hate speech here. The recommendations must be "very precise and narrowly defined, so that not every speech relating to racial or ethnic issues of a susceptible self-censorship of media that cares not to be exposed to potential penalties". There are no precise provisions offered, but it is widely said that "the broadcast programme must not contain information that encourages discrimination, hatred or violence against certain groups of people belonging to a particular species, religion, etc." Finally, I would quote the words of a certain Mr. Maria Otheimer, a consultant at the Council of Europe Media Department, who says, "Our position is that we are not against state media and that we do not take into account exclusively independent media. The objectives of state and independent media do not match and this very difference justifies the existence of this type of media. Our basic point of view is that all media must be independent, with only one role, and that is to oversee the work of politicians. We support the dual system of media and the necessity of the existence of public and private media when it is specifically the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia." I'd like to look back on only two members, although I'll talk about them when it comes to the amendment. I think he's a very bad member of 23, and that's the Council's choice. I was speaking on the Committee that in this way the Council, we will be able to choose, because this is where various social institutions are predicted to determine two candidates, so here it is said - domestic NGOs, citizens' associations, etc. And we still don't have the law on citizens' associations. Besides, you know there are dozens and hundreds of NGOs. What's interesting about us is that these organizations are upside down understanding their role. They think if it's an NGO, it has to be against the government. That was useful to us when we were in opposition, because NGOs certainly helped us win. However, some of them are now acting tamp to work against the state. The names are mentioned here, and I don't want to mention names again, but that's the only thing that a few of them have to do is spread evil, poison against the Serb people. Now we give them great authority here so they can choose members of the Council. There are churches and religious communities and various other associations, it will be negotiated........ You don't understand what it says. ) Let me also refer to Article 67a, especially the attitude that the radio and television stations of churches and religious communities do not pay compensation for broadcasting programmes until the end of the recovery process to these churches and religious communities, seized after World War II in various proceedings, nationalisation, confiscation etc. Which will give it to the religious communities and their televisions free of charge their programs to broadcast, when the design of the program usually costs a lot. Why is it said after World War II? King Alexander did agrarian reform, perhaps he took away some church land, but why free all of them. There are religious communities that no property has ever been taken away. There are religious communities that are very rich, not to mention a religious community that can buy all of Yugoslavia and still skip a lot of money. I don't think that's an option. So many of the principle remarks, and when they come to order for the amendment, I'm going to have a chance to say one more thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22715	The word has been made by MP Milos Todorovic, the parliamentary group of the Serbian Unity Party, and the next reported for the word is MP Zivorad Rakovic, the parliamentary group of the Democratic Christian Party of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22716	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Ministers, but he is not here, the radio broadcasting law promoter, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, with its proposal as a whole, is a rehabilitating previous regime. The then opposition, and the current DOS, has satanicized power for years because of mandatory radio-television subscriptions and promised to abolish it as soon as it reached power. The promises were kept, as we can see, only 18 months. Now is the time and opportunity for all citizens of Serbia, all pensioners, all agricultural producers who can no longer live from their work to learn that the next electricity bill will be increased by 210 dinars on behalf of a radio-television subscription. I guess I'm happy with my novelty, the communications biroom, which is like around Big Brother, as George Orwell predicted a long time ago, the government is now proposing another similar institution, which is the Republic Broadcasting Agency. Article 6 of the law states that an agency will be established to provide conditions for effective implementation and improvement of established broadcasting policy in a manner appropriate to a democratic society. It is further explained that the agency will be independent of any state body, and in fact it has been removed from the influence and control of the National Assembly and the people themselves. She's addicted to the agency's advice. When the government came up with this agency, I thought it would be a lot cheaper. In order for the government to take over the Republic Broadcasting Agency, as well as the entire broadcasting in Serbia, it has very professionally come up with a way of choosing the agency's advice. After the last version of the law we received last week, 15 members of the agency's council were to be elected, which is proposed by 15 mandated promoters. It is plainly said that every author has, I emphasize, a word -- there is, one member of the council. The National Assembly in that version was not to have any member of the council, nor was it authorized to propose, nor was it practically selected. She was just deciding which of the two proposed candidates would be a member of the council. I'm asking if it's a way of being appropriate to a democratic society. In the latest draft law on broadcasting, the final version, which we unfortunately could only read comments on in the paper, because we received the bill this morning, the council narrows down to 9 members, but is now proposing members of the council of the National Assembly of Serbia, the Assembly of Vojvodina, the Government of Serbia and the Executive Greater Vojvodina, and the other proposals are from the civil sector. Given the undisputed influence of the Democratic Party on all proposals, as NGOs are also users of significant funds from the government's budget, it all comes down to the government calling the agency's council and having a crucial word in it through its authorised associates. In order to avoid this inappropriate concentration of government and influence in the field of broadcasting, I propose that MPs' clubs in the National Assembly who have more than 10 MPs be empowered to propose members of the agency's council and that the government of Serbia, the Vojvodina Assembly and the Vojvodina Executive Council be deprived of the right to propose. It is safer that national representatives in the Serbian Parliament will more adequately express the will of voters than executive bodies, including the Vojvodina Assembly, which represents only a small number of voters who have already been represented in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The draft law in Article 87 provides that members of the Management Board of the Broadcasting Institution shall appoint and resolve the Agency. Thus, the non-democraticly appointed board of the agency appoints and resolves members of the board of directors of the Serbian Broadcasting Institute. In this way, Serbia's complete broadcasting would be in the hands of one man, I hope you all know who I mean. In order for that to not happen, I suggest that the members of the board of directors of the Serbian broadcasting institution appoint and resolve the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Finally, about the proposed way of broadcasting ads in Article 105, I don't think that's a good solution and that we've all had a chance to see what it looks like when commercials are broadcast as part of a program. The last example was the World Cup, and if you didn't know you could look over the satellite. I haven't seen anywhere so much that ads are inserted into the very core of the program; that's how you lose complete concept, you can't follow the event in time, because our editors usually throw it in when it's important to see something. Because of everything exposed, the Assembly Group cannot accept legislative responsibility and vote in favour of such a bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22717	The word has been made by MP Zivorad Rakovic, the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Serbia, and the next reported by MP Djuro Popovic, the MP group of the Serbian Unity Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22718	Dear presidents, with members of the presidency, respected colleagues and colleagues, dear observers, or guests on the balcony, the DHSS assesses the proposal for a law on broadcasting very positively. So it gives him a very positive grade for a number of reasons. I know that a good number of respected colleagues and colleagues are an expert lawyer. As a clean socialist, I know very well, as well as the rest, that every country since it was created has been making rules to regulate the lives of citizens in that country; of course, given the above all the obligations and rights of all citizens in all the areas of life and in all the activities. For months now, listening to some respected colleagues, I have been under the impression that political action is being put above all activities in society. I mean, first of all, in our society, which is very wrong. Political activity is one of the social activities which, within its domain, performs those tasks and tasks provided for in the basic law, which is the constitution of each society. As a result, I often have a problem with the presentations of some, as in particular today of some respected colleagues; therefore, they simply identify political activity with the life of society. This bill seeks to regulate in a far better, more comprehensive, more rational manner the rights and obligations of the employees or employees of this activity, which is called the means of mass communication, mass media, whatever you want; there are more expressions for the means to inform us, inform us about various events, about life in our society and in the human community, the global social community, in general in the human community, in the modern world. What is very important for this proposal to -- let's say that we exclude some exceptions, some cases, or some exposures -- it's noticeable that it can be accepted, with any minor objections; and it's certainly so. If we look at the text, if we carefully read the individual members of the text of the bill, we will see for ourselves. Please, it's a simple question -- and, of course, I'll give the answer -- what kind of information system do we have now? Excuse me, and some of the apologies and consequences that work in this work, we have about one pretty dense forest, we have very many audiovisual information systems, we have in programs and software content so much violence, so much, so much pressure on memory, on the mental health of a large number of adults, not to mention youth, and especially on minors. Whether or not it should continue to flow and commercialize every medium, which is called mass communication, to the end. I'm sure you agree with me that this is inadmissible. If we look at some of these members, they regulate it exactly in the best possible way, or they disable it. These organs that are foreseen, such as the agency, such as advice - please, these are people, as it says here, will be safe people, and I would like to add to one remark, that they only engage highly professionally; there are scientists who are dealing with this problem and who know it very well, what needs to be and how to control the means of mass communication, the realisation of their programs, the development of programs. We shouldn't be putting on now, and we can, I don't know how many objections to some details about the law. I've got such small remarks, suggestions, and let me bring them out here. There are no representatives, but anyway; for example, in Chapter IV, article 68, under two, should provide free, objective and timely information. Furthermore, when it comes to public broadcasting services, please, let's not discuss termologically whether this is a name or a name. It is important that the work of the service, and the institution, as well as what is its obligation. So what's really important is that if you look at a little organ that controls work, or by managing the administrative authorities, there's no and there shouldn't be any objections; because we can definitely find any objections to any of the organs or management, the way or the methods to choose, the procedure. But that's less important than what's the essence of this law, which is that maximum, give the same working conditions to all those who do this job and are, of course, controlled by both the authorities that are foreseen here and the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22719	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Djuro Popovic, the SSJ parliamentary group. The next reported is MP Zlata Djeric, the New Serbia parliamentary group. He's got three minutes of the Soviet Parliament group, the rest of the time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22720	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is no longer any doubt in the firm determination of the current government in Serbia to master all the levers of our entire life in our republic and thus to ensure that the rocked survival. One of the crown proofs of this claim is the bill of law that is before us today. In a series of so-called. reform laws, the government of the Republic of Serbia is proposing to this high home that it adopt a new pearl in the form of broadcasting laws. The dispute is gone, and it can't be that it's really time for the broadcasting area to finally be arranged by an appropriate set of laws. However, the ruling DOS has advocated this job since the first days since October 5th. The time to move from word to deed has been delayed, as a matter of fact, in many other ways. It further falls into the eyes of the proponents' haste to now and immediately pass this law, as well as the request of the DOS parliamentary group to our Parliament president to put in place an appropriate proposal under item 1 in the agenda of the Fifth Extraordinary Session. Also, it should be borne in mind that the government of the Republic of Serbia, allegedly simply because of a large number of amendments arrived, has briefly withdrawn its proposal. The government had enough session to smooth her jewel and now she's in a hurry to see the light of day. Is it wise to understand what this law means for the option of power and their foreign employers to meet the inevitable presidential and other emergency elections at all levels? It is much more hypocritical and cynical between the lines of the offered text and in its explanation. Yet, the very highlight of this blow to the rights and human freedoms of Serbian citizens in Section II - Republic Broadcasting Agency, or members of its all-powerful council. We have heard that among his nine members he should be a representative of NGOs, the very same ones whose mentors and financials are well-known to us. I guess it's comforting that the members of the agency's council shouldn't be several knees related to DOS chiefs. Does it take more cynicism when it's known that among ordinary criminals, executioners are mostly just mere perpetrators? In this principle debate, I'd like to point out a specific detail. It is about Article 78 of the Law, which states the obligation "to ensure that citizens' needs for programme content reflect cultural identity, both peoples and national minorities are met". It should also add to the member the obligation to provide a status solution to the position of the national minority in the language in which the programme is broadcast in the public broadcasting service, i.e. the equality of the national minority programme, which is being prepared within the framework of the second edition rather than its own. In particular, I would like to point out Article 83(1) of the proposed law, where a subscription amounting to 210 dinars is proposed, as well as in paragraph 2. 440 dinars. I would like to ask the motioner - how already robbed and debilitated pensioners (by the ruling regime) will settle their subscription obligations, if it is known that 100,000 pensioners from their incomes cannot meet the obligation to give for electricity. Kori Udovicki, Minister of Mining and Energy, threatened pensioners to sell their apartments to reconcile electricity. Does this mean that Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Dr. Zarko Korac, will soon threaten pensioners to sell their furniture and TV receivers to settle their subscription?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22721	I'm warning you, time's over. The word has a folk MP Zlata Djeric, the DOS-New Serbia parliamentary group, and the next reported for the word is MP Radojko Petric, the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22722	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected observers, the New Serbia parliamentary group thinks we have a very important law project ahead of us, which certainly must exist. The speed he adopts and the process is not satisfying us, gives us the right to be skeptical, but we hope that the congregation's majority will have enough understanding to fix this legislative project with amendments and make it acceptable for further use. Knowing the importance of the electronic media available to us, we are aware that we are witnesses (we were even objects in the immediate past) of a great manipulation of electronic media that had great power, a great influence, above all on the decommissioning of our culture and, let's not say, on all segments of society and all vital functions of society in which we were moving and located. So we have before us a law that should regulate the use and use of weapons, so-called. "seven powers." Therefore, we must be extremely responsible for each amendment. I hope that the congregation majority will honestly consider and adopt all those amendments that will make it acceptable, applicable, and completely positive. Since this law provides for the regulatory content of the programmes and the conditions under which they will be implemented, we consider it important to pay attention to the educational and educational content that electronic media today has in our community. Our parliamentary group will give its amendments an explanation. If the bill accepts all those positive solutions, we hope to be able to support it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22723	The word has been made by MP Radojko Petric, the SPS parliamentary group, and the next reported by MP Zoran Cirkovic, the DOS-New Serbia parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22724	The respected presidency, honourable MPs, the DOS hit all the bells in the election campaign that one of its first steps would be its activities in the media sphere. Since coming to power, for the last year and a half, it's been pointed out all the time. In practice, however, it is only a parole marketing. How to make a second finding when only after a year and a half of the DOS government we get a proposal from the first media law, a law on broadcasting, and is required to be adopted by emergency procedure. This could be justified if the request came within a month of the DOS coming into power, not after a year and a half. What about the other media laws? What about the telecommunications law, the public information law, the public advertising law? It was related laws that regulated the connected area, which were complemented and needed to be passed at the same time. I find it hard for the government to find an excuse for such failures. Hopes of rapid transformation of state media and the adoption of new media laws have been betrayed. They have already been licked and citizens are not subject to charges at the expense of the former SPS government regarding the disabling of information. It cannot be hidden that around 76% of the current media in Serbia began working after 1991, meaning during the SPS rule. At the time, a large number of local media opened, and in the first place radio and television stations. It's about impressive numbers. It's about 300 TV stations in Serbia, 504 radio stations and 641 publications and a publishing house. More order was likely to be introduced, since certain media houses did not meet even some minimum conditions for working in the media sphere. However, the SPS government has tolerated this, not to turn out to be a deterrent for informing citizens from a number of different sources and free to express different views and views on all issues in society. In that tolerance, it's probably gone too far. The claim can be compared to developed countries of Europe, as they are authorised to work determine the region that the media can cover, is determined orientatively by how many thousands of people and others. Due to limited time for discussion, I am returning specifically to the individual solutions proposed by this broadcasting law. I'm going back specifically to the individual solutions proposed by this broadcasting law. I return to the question of radio and television subscriptions that are very important, both for radio and for every citizen in particular. SPS lawmakers last year have seriously warned that it is wrong for the government to cancel a TV subscription because public service is also financed by subscription in other countries. The current government then called for DOS pre-election promises, to take care of the poor population and that the TV subscription should be abolished. Now you can see, as in other cases, how much DOS power holds to pre-election promises and the population is even harder to live. It is not disputed that national television and radio need to be developed through the Serbian broadcasting institution, as commercial stations will mainly not prepare or broadcast a drama, music, children's programme, school programme, or scientific and educational programme. The question now arises -- how good the government's proposal is in terms of ensuring the independence of the Serbian broadcasting institution, both in the programme and in the financial sense. The government's proposal provides a huge amount of funds. Why, in the light of the law, the government doesn't give at least any estimates of how much they're going to raise money from a subscription. Apparently, the government was avoiding it, and she could have. Statistically, it is known how many households there are in Serbia, it is known that almost every household has at least a radio camera. It is known how many registered and approximate percent of the radio in the vehicles. It's hard to get the impression that the government is deliberately covering it up. He doesn't want to give the data for how many times, I'm stressing -- how many times does an increase in the subscription take place compared to last year's state of affairs, when the subscription was paid. However, the data cannot be hidden: by the end of February 2001, about 130 million dinars were collected from the TV subscription monthly. I remind you that the TV subscription was 61.21 dinar at the time. Now a monthly TV and radio subscription of 210 dinars per household is proposed or three and a half times more than it was last year. New subscription is introduced for radio receivers in motor vehicles of 440 dinars per year. According to the first results, this year's census in central Serbia and Vojvodina registered 2,614,320 households. If it comes from the fact that every household has a radio and a TV receiver or at least a radio receiver and that at least 50% of the motor vehicles are built in a radio receiver, then it is seen that monthly of the TV subscription will be included over four times more funds than last year. When the front is added that newspapers are introduced that the owner pays the radio and TV subscription to each address, means in the cottage, the country house and the like, then the amount is further increased significantly. Well, how to justify an increase of over four times, 400%, and the rise in prices to a small extent throughout 2001 was 40.7%, although it was due to increase prices from February of the month by 10 months. But let's also admit 12 months, that's 40.7% and for the first six months of this year, the price rises to a little bit is 4.3%. Furthermore, how to make the government's proposal to increase the future subscription every year, apart from the percentage of the growth in prices to a small and an additional 5%. What 5% and what does the government explain? If we start with the price stopping, that we have price stability, it's okay to go up to a little bit, but by explaining that we propose that every year, in addition to rising prices to a little, a 5% increase. It's really hard to explain to the citizens. There are still a number of legitimate objections to this bill. In addition to this debate, the SPS MPs have submitted more than 30 amendments and will discuss this in particular, with a reasonable hope that these amendments will be accepted to a good extent and that we will get one better quality law, which will satisfy the interest of all citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22725	Thank you. The word has been issued by MP Zoran Cirkovic, the DOS-New Serbia parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22726	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the proposal for a law on Serbia's broadcasting system has long been announced. The first legal text was passed to us three months ago, April 4, and was renewed three months after that, July 4th. It is quite a coincidence that these two dates are significant in communist history. Of course, the large number of amendments that have arrived at this bill really says that this law regulates a very sensitive substance; it really regulates the issues of mass media, or the issues of state electronic media. What led to special public interest is Article 23. It is a member who speaks about how to choose the advice of the broadcasting agency, i.e. the Republic Broadcasting Agency. Let us remember that, since 4 April, the original text provided for 15 members to take part in the Agency's advice; that is, in some ways, 15 interested groups of our society or institutions were represented by their representatives in the existing council. And indeed, this member has caused public interest. We have seen in good faith that some independent media have also reacted, and let's say, again, we learn from the media, that AEM is dissatisfied with the new proposal for the composition of the council. It is true that the arithmetical influence of the state, or government, is not provided by the composition of the council, because it has nine members and the direct influence of the state can only be represented by four members. These are the ones proposed by the government and the Serbian Parliament, the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina. However, although the number of members of the council has been reduced from 15 to nine, this does not mean that six stakeholders, or six former proposings, have been eliminated in order to have a representative. In fact, I'm going to indicate who that applies to. As opposed to the original member, 23 representatives will not have Serbia's Chamber of Commerce, Serbia's Supreme Court and the union organisation of Serbia and SANU. Indeed, when it comes to these first three interested institutions, I do not dispute that the change in the previous text is good for the simple reason that no damage has been produced. However, it seems to me that in the subsequent amendment, the legislator unwarrantedly deprived SANU of having a representative in the council. As some things were done cumulatively here, it could also be said that one representative has a Serbian and Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts Conference. It is also because our national intelligence is concentrated mainly in these two institutions. Of course, their mutual agreement would determine who would have their own representative and how the representative's rotation could certainly satisfy the interests of both. With that change, SANU was deprived of the right to have a representative. I think the legislator made a mistake here. Article 21 of this law creates a certain animosity in society. The article states that sanctions will be imposed by the Republic Broadcasting Agency by the broadcaster, who among other things encourages discrimination against the person of various sexual orientations. Does this mean that the emitter who favors the birth of more children, which should be a higher national interest, an emitter who fights against the white plague, implies heterosexual relations, and by doing so, he in fact objectively discriminates against those who advocate homosexual relations. Is such a way that it will come under the influence of the existing law, i.e. by acting against the prohibition of the position of the 1st member, which is the basis for giving the intended measures by the Agency, independent of the other legal means available. The law should avoid those things that make people uncomfortable in society and in the state. The New Serbia parliamentary group will participate with several amendments to improve the existing legal text. We will support this law in principle, and in particular we will identify ourselves depending on how our parliamentary majority will deal with the proposed amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22727	I apologize to MP Petar Petrovic, whom I called, the Soviet Union has used the time allowed. The word has been given by MP Djura Lazic, the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22728	The Honorable Presidency, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr. Vice President, this law is really very important and I understand your efforts to regulate the area of broadcasting function to as much extent as possible. And I have no doubt of your intention to actually regulate it in one valid way. However, the debate so far and a large number of amendments submitted suggest that the bill has a lot of shortcomings. I would not repeat many of the things that have been said, I would just refer to a few members of the law of this proposal as part of the principled remarks from the aspect of my consideration. First, I would agree with colleagues who had objections to Article 21 who spoke about suppressing hate speech in the media; in general, I would absolutely support this member, except for the "sexual commitment" syntagma. That's why I suggest we delete this syntagm from Articles 21 and 79, because I think it's too high to add arguments compared to what Mr. Vojislav Seselj was saying today. I also have objections to article 27 that regulate the duration of the term of office of members of the Agency's council. I wonder, by which model this is determined and why some members are elected to two, some members to four, and some to six years? Isn't this some kind of discrimination of council members? If they are members of the council, I think they should all be with the same age of office. These are some of my principled remarks regarding this member of the law. I would especially refer to Article 23. The bill and I would not refer to the position of council members, but I would refer to the part that reads: "The nine members of the council are proposed by the previously elected members of the council, by the fact that the proposed candidate must meet the criteria for membership in the council, as set out in this law, and must be a person who lives and works in the area of AP Kosovo and Metohija." I fully accept this proposal; however, why the ninth member of this council should propose elected members of the council that others propose - the Serbian Parliament, the Serbian Government, the Vojvodina Assembly, the Executive Council of Vojvodina, and not to list the other proposings. Why is there no other modus, or association, organisation in Kosovo and Metohija, and that citizens from Kosovo and Metohija propose that member? I don't think it's right to propose members from Kosovo and Metohija. And, more importantly, why is there a need here to propose or appoint a member of the agency's council, and no proposal from counterpart Momčel Trajkovic, who asked that a man from Kosovo and Metohija be appointed as a member of the Constitutional Charter on the future state? Why do we reach for Kosovo and Metohija when we need it, when we think we should, and sometimes we don't? Why we have made failures knowingly in violation of the resolution of the highest home of the Republic of Serbia, of this home, of Kosovo and Metohija, which we have not accepted the constitutional frameworks of Hans Hackerup, related to Kosovo and Metohija, because there is no mention of Metohija in these constitutional frameworks, no "s" from Serbia, no "j" from Yugoslavia either. Apart from the resolution and the Declaration, which was unanimously brought into this house, the government, the president of the state, and the patriarch, invited the Serbian people to go to elections in Kosovo and Metohija, in these frameworks where neither the Metohija nor Serbia nor Yugoslavia stood; in this way, the people were deceived, the Cypriot government was verified in Kosovo and Metohija. We are now banned from our MPs from the Return Coalition mentioning the Metohija term in their performances in the Kosovo Assembly. I think there's some illogicality, really, when we talk about these issues. We need to be aware of the failures we've made, because if we bring in one act in this high house, then we really need all the organs to respect it. As for the subscription, I know that at the beginning and in the election campaign there have been a lot of talk that it is a burden for citizens, that it should be abolished, and it has been abolished. Now it reaches again for the introduction of the subscription. And then it was inevitable that there was this subscription, and now it's inevitable, so I'm surprised why you're propagating that it's an imposition on citizens, and now you're saying it's necessary. That's what it really needs, the media has to finance themselves from something, and who's going to fund it, but who's going to fund it, but who's going to use those media. I think there's a contradiction in your performances then, and now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22729	The word comes from MP Branislav Grubački, the DOS parliamentary group, the League of Social Democrats Vojvodina and the League for the Shumadi.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22730	The Honorable Presidency, fellow MPs, the Deputy Prime Minister is not here and I would welcome him, the honored guests, I would only at first say that I have a handicap in my presentation. Namely, the Vojvodine Assembly, where I am a nominal promoter, was unable to propose a majority of amendments because the emergency law was brought here to decide the MPs of the Assembly, so that we were not able to properly present any proposals, amendments and possible changes concerning the interests of the citizens of Vojvodina represented by the authorities of the Vojvodina Assembly. I will also reduce my exposure because the Committee on Culture and Information is under way, which decides on the many amendments that have been submitted to the bill, so that I will look back on the most important things. So today, the Fifth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, following lengthy revisions and amendments to the proposal, finally took place to discuss the proposal of one of the most important laws in a democratic constitutional country, the draft law on broadcasting. This proposal, which we currently have ahead of us, means the tenth version, is specific because it introduces into the broadcasting system some new institutions that are not in the classical function and service of the state. Instead of classical state media, a broadcasting agency is being introduced, i.e. the regulatory body and public service, and we generally welcome this act. At the same time, we would like to draw attention to the fact that, in our opinion, the proposal for a law on broadcasting is nevertheless centralistic and does not go to the end in decentralisation and deregulation of electronic media. The republican broadcasting agency, as envisioned by the bill, has concentrated an extremely large power in the field of electronic media. This regulatory body adopts a strategy for the development of broadcasting to the Republic of Serbia, shares the frequency for the broadcasting of programmes, issues licences for the broadcasting of programmes, prescribes technical and organisational programme conditions for production and broadcasting of programmes, charges the fee for using transmitters, chooses and appoints administrative committees, directors and responsible editors and thus the Republic's broadcasting service of RTS and the provincial, respectively, for Radio-Television Novi Sad. If it were to work on the ultimate decentralisation and deregulation of electronic media, in addition to the republican broadcasting agency, there would be a provincial broadcasting agency that would work in coordination with the republican and on the territory of the province to grant a license to broadcast, allocation of frequencies, charges for the use of transmitters in Vojvodina, which were otherwise built by means of all the citizens of Vojvodina. The establishment of a circuit broadcasting agency would be in line with European broadcasting law standards, as there is already tradition in Europe, the existence of regulatory bodies at regional level, as is the case in Belgium, Switzerland and Germany. However, as we join in saving time for the creation of this law, realizing the importance that it has for the general reputation of our country in various European bodies, we are at this moment acting on the focus of the interests of the citizens of the AP Vojvodina and we are submitting amendments that would require that, in addition to the republican form, the provincial broadcasting agency. One of the amendments that we have submitted to this proposal for a law on broadcasting we propose that the funds charged in Vojvodina, directly, in a fixed amount, be transferred to a jury account of the province's institution, and we are opposed to the proposal that all funds from the citizens' subscription be paid to the Belgrade gyro-count, and only after three days return to a certain amount to Novi Sad. We do not see any need for the Vojvodina money to travel to Belgrade, so that after a few days it returns to those to whom it is originally intended. In this regard, we consider that the territory of the AP Vojvodina, the basis of the registration of subscribers with all the personal and other necessary data, should be performed by the regional broadcasting service institution. We consider this a logical consequence of the fact that there are two public broadcasting services. We also believe that at least 85% of the fees charged in the Vojvodina territory should be intended to meet the needs of the province's television and radio, not just 70%, as the legislator predicted. Namely, I do not know how well it is known to the Serbian Parliament and the general public, the Vojvodina Assembly made a majority decision to support the proposal of its Information Committee, which required that all funds collected in the Vojvodina territory remain in Vojvodina, for a very simple reason not to pay television coverage, as said here on several occasions, but to pay for the production of the programme. We think we're extremely competent for something like that. So with that in mind, we believe that the territory of the AP Vojvodina after the recording, we should be working on us, or I would like to point out that it's not the ratings that are being paid, it's the production of the programme. If listeners and viewers were able to choose from the entire range of radio-television programmes broadcast on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the AP Vojvodina, a programme where they would pay a subscription, I am not sure they would be defined for the Belgrade RTS programme. Therefore, the money collected from the subscription of citizens is used to improve the emission, study and overall technical system, and above all to produce the programme. In this connection, the public service has an obligation to, apart from informational, products and other programmes, such as documentary, educational, scientific, cultural, children's, sports, feljetonic, as well as programmes of other content. It is also important to stress that such programmes must be produced in all official languages of national communities because it is necessary to respect one of the basic principles of human rights, i.e. respect for the collective rights of national minorities. There is significant programme potential in Vojvodina and it should not be forgotten. There are the University of Novi Sad with the Academy, the Serbian National Theatre in Novi Sad, numerous theatres in Hungarian and other languages of national communities established in Vojvodina, theatres in the interior of Vojvodina, and there are also numerous scientific workers, actors, directors, musicians, writers, athletes, athletes, and athletes whose potentials in the programming sense are not used enough, primarily because of lack of material resources. The real example of the potential of Vojvodina can also be the current EHIT festival, where you can see what Novi Sad and Vojvodina can see; although, in a spirit that currently prevails in Serbia, you can hear comments that only this festival would be significant and great that it was organized in Kalemegdan, i.e. at the Petrovaradin Fortress. Article 47 of Article 2 of this proposal states that public broadcasting services must provide quality reception of radio or television signals for at least 90% of the population in the desired service zone. We have tabled an amendment to this article aimed at reducing the number from 90 to 80, because we should not forget that three years ago we were exposed to the bombing by the NATO Alliance and that this was destroyed by a significant part of the broadcasting system in the Republic of Serbia and the AP Vojvodina, and that, since then, very little has been done, if anything at all, regarding the restoration of the facility and the technical equipment that was destroyed at that time. In particular, the Novi Sad TV building is an object in the RTS system that was injured during the SRJ bombing in the spring of 1999, and nothing has been done about its renewal. This is one reason; given the situation in which we are currently in place, it is almost impossible to achieve a radio-premise programme in 90% of the population. In addition to the above, it is not necessary to ignore the fact that Radio Novi Sad is not heard on the entire territory of the Vojvodina for the reason that the Orlovato surrender to Zrenjanin is used to cover Radio Belgrade. Given the fact that the 1991 Radio-Television Act, from the so-called Novi Sad Anexia, all the assets of the broadcasting system in the Republic of Serbia entered the property of the Serbian Radio-Television, we have submitted an amendment to Article 120 of this proposal where we propose that, with the existing one, two other positions be added to more precisely to regulate the position of a broadcasting institution in the future deobic balance sheet of the Novi Sad building. Finally, I ask you to take into account the above facts, think carefully about the amendments that we have submitted and to vote for their adoption when the time comes, because they are written in the best interests of all of us and are also holding the position of the Vojvodina Assembly, the Executive Council of the Vojvodina Assembly, the Committee for Informing the Vojvodina Assembly, and how many public opinion research agencies and the majority position of the people of Vojvodina are quoted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22731	The word has the People's MP Toma Busetic, the SPS MP group, and the next reported for the word is Ivan Andric, the DOS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22732	Dear fellow MPs, despite great announcements that this is a system law, that this is a reform law, this bill is just a proposal for a one-time use, for use in the time of this government and DOS authorities. Our objections are numerous; principled and I will start right from Article 23, where we are talking about how the Agency's advice is being formed. In fact, it is an organ that will have the most important and significant prerogatives in this area. This is not an independent organ at all. It is an organ that is parallel to the Serbian government or, better say, an authority that will be in office of the Serbian government, because how else do we interpret that most members will be elected precisely by the ruling majority, means the Serbian Parliament, and we know who is in the Serbian Parliament. The election assembly, but who is authorized to propose and I mean it -- it is the Serbian Parliament, the Vojvodina Assembly, the Serbian government, that is, the Executive Greater Vojvodina. When we talk about rectors, it is clear that the rectors are also elected by the current government and these associations are absolutely under the influence of the ruling structure. When we talk about domestic NGOs, we are absolutely against the participation of NGOs, because they did nothing good to this Serbia. Or at least there should be some formulation here that would be determined that those NGOs that are on a highly anti-Serbian programme cannot participate in the work of this agency, and we talked about all of which the non-governmental organisations are talking about. These are organizations headed by Sonja Biserko, Kandićka, Licht, Biljana Kovacevic-Vuco. Therefore, if it were the Belgrade Forum, I would agree with such an NGO, but with these NGOs at all. The Serbian Academy of Science and Arts has been expelled here, which I think is a very bad solution. In the end, when it comes to church and religious communities, one MP rightly said earlier -- who will order the church to propose candidates for members of the council. Perhaps this power would be the easiest way to resolve this issue if it took representatives of the Catholic Church, the Pope likes to come to Belgrade, Europe supports it, the Vatican will support it all and thus solve the problem, and on the other hand, the Orthodox Church would see where this government is headed. Many MPs have spoken with the right to Article 21, which is a specific sexual commitment. Every healthy nation must be against homosexuals and against lesbians. Simply this way, through this article, we come to the affirmation of these kinks or, as someone said, these diseases. Our objections are also related to some other members, such as Article 25, where they talk about who can't be a member of the council, so they talk about political party officials. That's not a good definition, and it should be specified, because you don't know at what level this provision is given. Or, when it comes to the Telecommunications Act, which had to be passed before and (of course, it is brought into the Federal Assembly), then to go with this law. Or, on the other hand, Article 53. I will just read it, it is said - the council will also take into account the applicant's contribution to the development of democratic relations when making a decision on the issue of the programme's broadcasting license. Obviously, a category of moral-political similarities is being reintroduced here, and given that the Deputy Prime Minister is also, (I am sorry that he is not here), Zarko Korać was one of the senior officials in the Union of Communists, all of which confirms what we have been saying that they are, however, at the most, at the power of the defeated force from the Eighth Session. We are opposed to changing Serbia's broadcasting institution. We're for RTS to keep it. We are opposed to the education and broadcasting institution of Vojvodina, because, you know, every separatism begins primarily in sports, culture and media, and then moves on. And what it should serve - first of all some policy affirmation of Chanka, Isaac and these separatists in Vojvodina. Finally, about what Deputy Prime Minister Zarko Korac said, here's a brief analysis. This system law is not systemically and it will only last for a short time, so only for the duration of DOS. That this law leads to the democratisation of the media, it's not coming. The media is absolutely blocked for all the right opposition parties. Some, though, appear, but these are not opposition parties. The depolitisation of this area -- even one Pink in our time had no information program, and now it's absolutely DOS-functioning and it has an information program because it has to. A subscription is being introduced, and this is being spoken of as being positive and good. Far from being positive and good. You promised she wouldn't be here, and you announced it was like a big day when the TV subscription would be lifted, and here she comes back two years later. Zarko Korac says this is a good day for Serbia. I don't know what good for. On one new charge of 200 and a few dinars. So it's not a good day. That everything is in line with Europe's demands, that's not true either. We have heard a few MPs who are experts in this area and who say all of this is not in line with the Committee of the Council of Ministers of Europe. And finally, you know for a fact that Drnovšek was in Serbia a few weeks ago and said -- think for yourself, don't rely on foreign experts, because they don't bring anything good. Therefore, this law is unacceptable to us and nothing advanced and will not do us any good.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22733	Right to the replica of MP Cedomir Jovanovic, on behalf of the DOS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22734	Mrs. Micic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, a few answers to the questions that are open here. True, we've done this many times now, but it's never against further arguments to deny some serious criticisms that have been mentioned. So, article 21 and issue of sexual commitment. I don't think any congregation can affirm or seek anything affirmative in terms of violence, hatred and discrimination. We must agree that these terms are unacceptable to democratic society, and then we can discuss the issue of freedom and the rights that are being threatened. This law has nothing to do with the cartoons mentioned here, and we strongly condemn that kind of interpretation. One who criticises Article 21. The Law on Broadcasting supports hate language, language of discrimination and violence. When you introduce such concepts into a political dictionary, you hinted at them as political acts in the near future or beyond, and violence does not recognise borders, whether it's a sexual definition or any other kind of freedom. So we can discuss laws that will protect all segments of our society, but in the law on broadcasting in Article 21, there is nothing that could be treated the way the representatives of the opposition did. As for the call to the Council of Europe and the recommendations of the Council of Europe Ministers, I have here a complete recommendation of the number 23 of 2000 and no word of what is mentioned here is mentioned as a criticism of our legal solution, quite the contrary. The Council of Europe insists on an independent regulatory body, a procedure that will be chosen by members of that body who have no direct connection to the structures of government, nor to political structures, as it implies that politics can be divided into that segment that forms and represents power and represents a segment that forms and represents opposition parties. But nowhere does the Council of Europe take away the right to propose candidates, if the criteria set out in this recommendation are respected, and they are absolutely respected by the draft law on broadcasting. Finally, that's not our assessment. It is a representative of the Council of Europe and an assessment of the OSCE representatives. The possibility of an agreement between representatives of religious communities - we have no doubt about that possibility. Faith has been too abused in the last decade, but even in that last decade, we have had a different kind of example given to us by representatives of religious communities. I will remind you of the interconfessional meetings that occurred and were actively attended by representatives of the Serbian Orthodox Church, the Vatican and the Islamic Community. One of these meetings was organised in Geneva during the war, and there were also in Zagreb, both in Sarajevo and Belgrade. I think it would certainly be much less of an accident if the principles of faith had been followed, to the extent that church dignitaries pointed out in their example. We have no doubt they'll make a deal. As far as their team is concerned, there is a rotation or some other kind of arrangement between them. I'm not sure I should have respected those arguments that, first of all, treated the material status of religious communities. It is a question of the state's relationship to religion, not of states according to the material postulates on which a certain religious community rests. What was last mentioned here again is the issue of Kosovo and Metohija and the issue of the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts. We have not questioned the law of the Serbian Academy of Science and Arts that it is, in a certain way, correcting the application of the law with its critical views... (President: I warn you of an excessive amount of time. I apologize... The law on broadcasting, but we believe there is no reason to find representatives of the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts in this council. That's our clear attitude. He is no degradation, but simply respecting the reality and relationship of the institution towards what is our daily life. As for Kosovo and Metohija, a special status is that everything concerning Kosovo and Metohija is determined by Resolution 1244. She was agreed by you, gentlemen of the opposition. We have a duty to regard it as a fact, to try to change it in the future. We do not give up Kosovo and Metohija. We consider it simply an integral part of our country, but there are real obstacles and they must be respected, among other things, through the special treatment of representatives from Kosovo and Metohija in this council. I repeat again - we will discuss the amendments, but these are unacceptable thesis and must be commented on in this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22735	National MPs Ivan Andrić and Bosko Ničić, who are declared to be a word, are absent because they are members of the Committee on Culture and Information that is just sitting. The word has been made by MP Milan Stankovic, and three other registered speakers from the SPS parliamentary group and a time of two minutes remain. So does the People's MP Milan Stankovic want the word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22736	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the draft law on broadcasting is on the agenda, which the government finally proposed to the Assembly after more delays. The government that proposed this law says it is in full compliance with all the recommendations made by all the European Union and EU ministers. However, if that were not the case, one of the most drastic examples in this law tells us, more specifically in last week's bill. This is Article 53(5). The bill, where it is explicitly stated that the priority in granting permits to certain broadcasters will be those who have been particularly committed during the previous period for the development of democracy, etc. In today's bill of law, there are no explicit allegations like this. However, this is practically put into oblande and Article 53. The bill says that if the applicant and the public competition caller broadcasts a radio or television programme, the advice will also take into account the contribution of that applicant to the application of the principles of broadcasting regimes in the field of broadcasting. This means practically the same thing as what was in last week's bill and stood. In addition to these remarks on the bill, the SPS parliamentary group has objections about other members who are also not in line with the Council of Europe's proposal. For example, in Article 5 which speaks of co-operation with the regulatory body responsible for the area of telecommunications. The Council of Europe's recommendations say there should be no regulatory body, but rather a state body to carry out the mentioned tasks. Of course, my previous colleagues from the SPS parliamentary group spoke about other members of the law. Unfortunately, there's not enough time to repeat them and make my personal remarks. One thing's for sure, the government put this law, like everyone else, in their own personal... (President: I warn you of an excessive amount of time. )......................................................................................................... Service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22737	Since there are no more entries on the list, because the parliamentary groups have used this right, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups who have not used their right under Article 89. Rules of Procedure? Yeah. Here you go. National MP Anton Biachi, president of the parliamentary group Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians -- the DOS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22738	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, a few words I would like to refer to in fact to Mr. Korač, for the reasons that his answers, which are clear to me, in general, cannot be accepted and I believe, if we have already received such answers, then there will be little desire to possibly accept certain amendments which are intended to improve this law. I think I'm going to say the general thing when I say that every member of the law is bad and that every member of the law that opens the perspective of a society being richer and more materially, especially in a spiritual sense. The municipalities are for me states in small and basic cells of the decentralisation state. Similar to the family is the basic cell of society both by Christian teaching and by Marxist. The truth is that Europe does not know about municipalities and Europe, therefore, may not even know about local radio stations established by municipalities, with the function of public service for the local community as public enterprises. When I say this, then you can already assume based on my previous exposure, that I'm actually saying, in a way, against the vulgar privatisation that was given, for example, in Article 96. Europe does not even know about the traditional museums of which it is the founder of municipalities; Europe does not know about local magazines, local press, local publishing organisations and does not know about cultural and artistic societies established by municipalities. The truth is that these institutions are predominantly supported, operated and living off the funds provided in their budget by local self-government, i.e. municipalities. Whether it's 10% or 90%, it depends on the program and on a number of other circumstances that it takes, for example, one local paper to come out in a larger circulation on the municipality's territory and be sold more than the central sheets. I would remind you that the happy, somboric, Saturday newspapers, the newspaper from Zrenjanin or Kickinda, were sold in a much larger number and were always more circulation than was sold, "The Battle", "Politics", or some other central paper. Accordingly, local radio stations have a much larger number of listeners on the territory of the municipality than so on. State public services. For these reasons, I believe that local stations must not be vulgarly privatised, because then local self-government will be interrupted and the relationship between the population and the citizens, which is why we are actually passing this law. We need to understand that we are passing this law here and now for the citizens of Serbia. As for love of Europe, that's another thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22739	Does anyone else want a word from the president, or the president of the parliamentary groups? The word is from MP Zoran Cirkovic, deputy president of the DOS-New Serbia parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22740	To remove some misunderstandings. I have recently learned from the presentation of one MP, where the critics of article 21 have been criticised, that the matter has not been explained. The whole article 21 is not a condemnation, but one of his provisions unfortunately creates unpleasant associations and, for that reason, it is a condemnation. If we really are in favour of population policy, or if we're in favour of greater birth, then it's only possible to do it with heterosexual relationships. If those who advocate the other prove it, then there is no discrimination. So that's the thing that's clear. Secondly, this is an objection to the authors of this bill. The objection concerns the matter of subscription. Conceptially, the subscription is paid as the right of the user of the programme, not as a sanction that has a receiver for having one or more receivers, he paid sales tax. Therefore, the really subscription should be treated as the obligation of the users of the radio and TV programs, as it is in a position to obtain some information that is not otherwise available. The moment things are arranged in our broadcasting, so there will be an exclusive right for people to broadcast certain news, then pirates have no place. So those who use that information, if they didn't do it regularly, can't use them anymore. So, once again, our state television has not only an information program, but also an educational, this playful, documentary, film program, etc. All that stuff to the software producer, somebody's got to pay for it. If the subscription is the measure that had to be introduced, because someone has to pay the one who makes the program, then it applies as the right to use the program, not as an obligation because it has more receivers. To observe things like this: if someone had a house in the country and because they live in two addresses, they actually live on one, and one is only used for vacation, then they'd be forced to pay two subscriptions because there's a TV set in the country that might have run out of use. Of course there's no need to pay for it. Does that mean, to avoid the inconvenience of paying twice, he has to take his TV every time he goes to the country? No, I don't. So, once again, the subscription only refers to the right to use the program, not as an obligation arising from the use of multiple radios and TV receivers.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22741	Are any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, applying for a word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding the principle of shock. In accordance with Article 136(3) of the Financial Regulation, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a motion search with details. Before we move on to the discussion in particular, in accordance with Article 135 paragraph 6 - unless the committees and the Government deliver a report, or opinion, the National Assembly may decide to consider the bill without them, or set a new deadline within which they are obliged to do so - I suggest we start a review in detail without the report of the committee, which is just sitting, to work for another hour, until the end of working hours. The report will be delivered to us tomorrow. So, I suggest we work without reports from the board and government reports. For 81, against 13, two abstentions, 52, a total of 148 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided to consider the draft law on broadcasting in particular to begin without reports from the board and the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22742	In accordance with Article 137. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, I suggest that the debate in particular lasts three minutes after the amendment. So a little shorter, given the huge number of amendments that came to the broadcasting law.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22743	I am putting to the vote a proposal from the MP to, in accordance with Article 137, a three-minute debate on amendments. For 96, against 24, the abstentions were not voted 29, a total of 149 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that the debate in particular takes three minutes. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Toma Busetic, Joca Arsic, Milos Nesovic and Sreten Mitrovic. Does a representative of the applicants of the amendment want a word? The People's Messenger Tom Bushetić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22744	Dear fellow Members of Parliament, with a group of SPS MPs, I have proposed an amendment to Article 3. It's about the next one. Article 3 states: "The regulation of relations in the field of broadcasting is based on the principles of: 1) freedom, professionalism and independence of broadcasting public messages, as guarantees for the overall development of democracy and social harmony". Instead of saying "social harmony", I suggested "socially just society". Why? The category of social justice has almost been erased since the DOS was in power. All transition societies kind of accept this category of social harmony, which in itself means nothing. These societies are now, ten years later, in a big dead end. These are two-layer societies, with 5% too rich and 70% of people with nothing to eat, who are hungry, without work and with no perspective. That is why we advocate to reintroduce this term of social justice. When it comes to point 3) where it comes to the ban on any form of censorship or influence on the work of broadcasting public texts, we have proposed to delete the words "or influence", because we believe that if we already have a ban on censorship then there is also a ban on labour. But it's quite clear, no matter what our amendments and everything, that with DOS everything will remain the same, everything will remain in force, and censorship and influence, and nothing will change there.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22745	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? Here's a word from MP Vojislav Seselj, president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22746	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I myself have submitted an amendment to this point of Article 3, given that this term - social harmony is not happily chosen. First, because modern societies are not harmonic societies. Modern, modern societies are conflict societies and differentiate on one basis -- whether these conflicts are articulized, whether they take place through a parliamentary system, a multiparty system, political conflicts between parties, within parliament, in the media, outside parliament in a civilized way, where there is a legal order; where there is no legal order because legal order is being torn down, for example. By disposing of all parliamentary groups from the Assembly, temporarily, permanently, by withdrawing parliamentary mandates etc., there is already an unarticulated legal order, an unarticulated social conflict. That's what's dangerous. But I couldn't accept the amendment's proposal that the term - social harmony be replaced by the term "socially fairer society". Social justice society or social justice society - it is a beautiful political term and this term is suitable for political theoretical and practical discussions, sociological, psychological, historical, etc.; but the term cannot be swept into legal norm. When you put it into legal norm, it means nothing for the simple reason that anyone who reads that legal norm can interpret it in a different way. The legal norm must thus appear to be identical to the interpretation of any individual who does not have a few legal omens. That is why I am not in favour of entering a legal norm that would require sociological or political theoretical embodies. But to erase the term - social harmony, it's more than celery, since that term does not know anyone from the government to explain, nor do we have a harmonic government. The government that is constantly fighting with each other, inside it is being fought by ministers, the government that is in conflict with society, the government that is in conflict with various social factors, including political parties, trade unions, workers, the judicial system, parliament, etc., cannot be a government that advocates social harmony. She is aware of the conflict, with the fact that these conflicts are also inciting an irrational and illegal way. But then why would she talk about social harmony here? Where is social harmony? In absoluteism, in despotism, in full dictatorship, etc. Every dictator seeks social harmony. He establishes one order of things and requires everyone to adapt to that order for love and harmony, threatening severe sanctions if harmony is disrupted. (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. I'll be done right away. Democracy does not suffer the harmony of this species. Democracy insists on continued articulated political conflicts.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22747	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. ) We move on to the amendment to Article 3, which was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go. Will you be using time for the president of the parliamentary group as well?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22748	Yes, since you have shortened the duration of the debate on amendments, you have obliged me to talk about other people's amendments, not just your own. So you didn't save anything, you just complicated this debate a little bit, and maybe you gave her a little spirit, a little more interesting in that way, we'll see. I am looking for, in addition to insisting on eradicating social harmony, because it does not mean anything, it is difficult to legally interpret it, point 3) is changed and it is said: "the bans of every form of censorship of broadcasting public texts". It's a simpler formulation compared to the existing one that says, "The regulation of relations in the field of broadcasting is based on the principles of banning every form of censorship" -- it's okay -- "and/or"... What does this mean - and/or impact on the work of broadcasting public texts? You can't ban influence. Radio-difficults are influenced by citizens above all else. There's a criticism of the citizens. Citizens sometimes appear in the program, sometimes write letters, sometimes publicly protest in other media because of certain content. You can't stop their influence. He's real. It is expressed through the ratings of certain shows. Then there's the influence of the owner. You can't rule out the owner's influence on the private media. If the owner has one ideological orientation, she's legal, she's also legitimate. You can't make him tolerate any other direction of his television or radio station. For example, if the owner wants it to be his, it doesn't have to be a political but cultural, artistic programme oriented towards the affirmation of folk music, whether traditional, original, or newly recompromised, you can't stop it from affecting its editors. He's being sprayed by an editor and said he wants rock music. And the owner answers -- where rock concerts are a lot of drugs, there's no way to turn off drugs, and there's no stopping them, and where people's music might get drunk, but drugs are mostly gone, there are rare cases where they show up. It's his definition. He financed the medium and he demanded that the medium be directed in that direction. Secondly, if you in this way restrict the owner of a private radio or television station that he cannot impose his idea or political stance, he will fire an editor who is not at his will, based on the Labour Act. It's better to get this out of the broadcasting law, and when he hires an editor, when he brings him to the workplace to tell him -- the concept of this radio or television station, which is a private property, is like that; if you fit into it, start working, and if you don't fit, he's looking for someone else; and not that he has to keep quiet, pretend he doesn't get involved, and then he gets amazed when the editor comes to work one day and gets fired. What's more moral in this case? To play open cards, so to say - I pay for it, I finance it and I have the right to determine the editorial policy, and to let it know immediately at the beginning of what conditions a working relationship is made. Or, out of fear of such a categorical provision of the law, to keep silent about its intimate definition, to its political position, to its idea of direction, to those who do not adhere to such a policy, and not to know it, who has been brought into the situation to recognize the idea of direction and software policy of the owner, simply to fire, without knowing why he was given the resignation, to invent any reason that implies the Labour Act - a technological surplus, such as, such as that, without the real reason being mentioned. And if there was a harmonisation of that kind of attitude, there would be no reason to quit at all. What guarantees their independence, what is at this point 3? What does that independence mean? Independence from whom? Independence - if this is a private vote - relative to the regime, relative to the government, especially executive power, independence from the government. But it can't be a medium independent of its owner. Imagine if anywhere in the world you can find such a stupid owner that you use your money to buy a radio or a TV station and that this radio or TV station, independent of its will, broadcasts the program. I can't imagine a man that stupid and rich can exist. If he's come to his own fortune, he's certainly not that stupid, if he's inherited from someone, and he's too stupid to run the team, it won't take him long. So such cases in practice don't exist, or they're very rare. This is about the independence of their editorials and journalists. Imagine, a man has a private radio or a TV station and an editorial of one of his programs is completely independent. He says -- you're going to figure out the shows like this, and the newsroom meets and says, "We're not going to do that," we're going to do that. This is worse than self-government! Even in self-management, it couldn't have done that. Or to insist on the independence of journalists in this regard. This independence is impossible in private media, it is also impossible in state media. Try these foreign radios and TV stations: Deutsche Vele, Voice of America, Free Europe, etc. to extend a political stance that is contrary to the political stance of their governments - you will see that it is impossible.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22749	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. ) In the same text, Members of the People's Republic of Juhas Attila and Branislav Grubaski submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Do the applicants want a word? No, I don't. Voices from the O.R.: What about the Committee? ) Both MPs are members of the Committee on Culture and Information. Do any of the other authorized participants want a word? There's a word from MP Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22750	It is about Article 3(4), which insists on the principle of full affirmation of civil rights and freedoms, and in particular freedom of expression and pluralism of opinion. The applicant for the amendment Attila Juhas asks to supplement it and to add the words "including the collective rights of national minorities". The collective rights of national minorities are regulated by the Federal Law on National Minorities; it is one of the few laws voted by the votes of all MPs, unanimously, in the Federal Assembly. However, it is not a place for this provision in point 4) because, when it is said, a full affirmation of civil rights and freedoms, above all, is thought of individual civil rights and freedoms. It's democracy. It is thought of freedom of expression and pluralism of opinion. There is no collective opinion in a democratic sense, and when it insists on freedom of expression, then it is about freedom of individual expression. There is no freedom of collective expression. It's actually the concept of collectiveism, which is opposite both democracy and freedom. There are collective national rights in a certain sense, they are very well defined by the federal law on national minorities, but they do not appear in this way. It would be wrong to insist on this collectiveism in any case, because we can come to the risk that by insisting on collective rights and collectiveism at all, individual civil rights and human freedoms, which represent a fundamental value and without which there is no democracy. Democracy is imagined without the collective rights of any collectiveity, including national collectiveity. And the basic concepts of democracy evolved without those collective rights. These collective rights of national minorities do not exist, for example, in France, in many other countries, and you cannot dispute with that argument that democracy exists in that country. What she's like, she's basically a democracy. In this case, therefore, it is not appropriate to amend Article 3 paragraph 4 in the sense that the Proposer insists.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22751	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Milos Nesovic, Branko Ružic and Rajko Baralic together submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? There's a word from MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22752	Dear Mrs. Comic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is about the intention to define point 5 more precisely in Article 4. The bill states: "A desired service zone: a geographical area or administrative area for which a broadcasting service is intended. The desired service zone (services) depending on the need is an individual service zone or a set of service zones". We advocate that this term "gather" be replaced by a new one that says "Union", because we have consulted people who are in the technical profession and who consider this to be a common term, which exists everywhere in the world. For that reason, and not for any other reason, we felt we should respect those people who do this work. So we suggest that, in Article 4 in point 5, this is solved in the way that it stands in our explanation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22753	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted to Article 4 by MP Velimir Simonovic. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He has the word MP Velimir Simonovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22754	Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment is of a technical nature: it should stand - in Article 4 paragraph 8) and not - in Article 4 paragraph 8. What is important in this point 8), behind the text "radio-distribution organization (hereinafter referred to as: emitter) is a natural or legal person registered for activity... "then I suggest you delete the word "production and." Because since the word emitter stands, the emitter is, by all standards, the one who broadcasts the program and doesn't have to produce it. And by the way, it goes "and broadcasting a radio or TV program that, in accordance with this law, has been issued a program broadcast license". So here, the words "production" really don't have room. I wrote the explanation a little bit more; of course, I don't want to read it, look at it, but really the word "production" here can't stand because it's about the emitter. Otherwise, since that is the definition, as well as these previous ones above, the definition must be very precise, so that there is no caucus interpretation of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22755	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. If not, we continue the discussion in detail. Parliamentarians Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Adam Urosevic together submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? He has the word National MP Petar Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22756	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am in a dilemma whether to explain the amendment, because I do not have the government's position; perhaps it has accepted it, so I do not need to explain it. But it seems that some MPs here know how the government is thinking and that it has not accepted the amendment, so in future, because they know, I suggest on behalf of the Soviets that they shorten the time to explain the amendments for 15 seconds, just to read the number of amendments and at least not discuss it, so that we don't waste time. However, the MP club of the Soviet Union has tried to improve its amendments to the bad text of the Broadcasting Law. One of these amendments is also an amendment to Article 4(10) of the proposed law on broadcasting, which reads as "Independent Production; Radio and Television Programmes intended exclusively for broadcasting produced by natural or legal persons registered for this activity, and which are not the broadcaster of programs which produce); we propose to replace it with the text: Self-production; production (production) of radio and television programmes, institutions, organisations and companies that do not broadcast the programme". We also propose in the same article at point 15 that the word "mostly" be replaced with the word "exclusive". Why did we propose this? We believe that the solution proposed in our amendment is more appropriate and precise to define those terms - standalone production of television programs without the right to broadcast the same and define the cable-distributive system as exclusively cable telecommunications networks for distribution of radio and television programmes. I hope that if one of the representatives of the government listens to this argument, they will accept, because it is safer that the text proposed by the Soviet Parliament group is much better and more precise, as well as written.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22757	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? Yeah. ) The word is held by MP Vojislav Seselj, president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22758	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, an amendment that insists primarily that the term "independent production" be replaced by the term "self-produced production", enters a principled area that was not mentioned during the principle debate. I think that insistence is quite appropriate because when someone says, when you hear a collokious, independent production, and even when you look at how the creators of this legal text have set it here, you'll see that it's about people who don't know what independent production means. We have so far had in practice a case of production production, that is, production of television programs, networks, ANEM, WIN and probably some more. They insisted that it was an independent production, which is not true -- they were financed from abroad and they themselves admitted that they were getting money for their production from abroad; whoever gets money from someone to do their profession, for their public action, can't claim to be independent, regardless of who receives the money, is absolutely irrelevant to who the money is received from. That's not independent. However, it can be independent of state media and there is a high degree of independence. It produces the program on its own, which means that the program is not produced within an existing radio or television station that has a frequency, but the program itself produces someone who does not have a frequency, but this program is placed on the market, so individual radios or television stations are buying it emissions, or under some other conditions, and that's why this term is "autonomous production" -- much more adequate, and -- independent production as a term means nothing, it's pointless and does not correspond to the real state of things in practice. There was never an independent production with us, there was always someone financing, as there was never an independent production of played films, always someone financed those movies. It used to be the government, they were externally funded, once public enterprises, privates, but always someone financed on the basis of their support for appropriate programming orientation, or concept; independence is neither there nor independence in this sphere is possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22759	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Milos Nesovic, Branko Ružic and Rajko Baralic together submitted the 5th amendment. Does a representative of the applicants of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22760	Ladies and gentlemen, in front of the SRS, I demand that a change be made in Article 6(1), which says: "In order to ensure conditions for effective implementation and improvement of broadcasting policy in the Republic of Serbia in a manner appropriate to a democratic society, the Republic Broadcasting Agency (hereinafter referred to as the Agency) is established as an independent, independent, or independent organisation that exercises public authority in accordance with this law and regulations adopted under this law. "I ask that the words "as an independent, or an independent organisation" be deleted in attitude 1, and in paragraph 2, to delete the words "from any state authority", where the agency is said to be an independent legal entity and functionally independent of any state authority. The agency cannot be independent and independent of any state authority. First, the agency is so conceived by this law, as a state body and that government body, it is not a legislative body, nor a judicial body, but a state administration body. Technically, the agency is defined as a body on its own in relation to the highest authority of the state administration, but it is actually a parallel body to the authority of the state administration. In the principle of debate, I have already proved that through people who will be members of the Agency's Council, executive power is very effective in carrying out its will, since it is not possible such an independent or independent organisation; it is contrary to the basic principles of the legal order, the foreign body is in this legal order if it is truly independent and independent and there is no real, material independence and independence then it is pointless to formulate itself. If the agency were to be tied to parliament, parliament would elect its members, then parliament would have to have the authority to call it to account. This law does not stipulate that a parliamentary group may apply to examine the responsibility of the Agency's Council for some of its actions; for some of its violations of legal norms, the Constitution, basic democratic principles. Parliament is not scheduled to question the work of this agency. It provides that the Agency is a permanent body and only under certain conditions will be subject to these conditions, members of that Agency may be allowed to be resolved - unless they participate in the work, if there are circumstances which have not been present at the time when they have been elected for members of the Agency's Council, if there are some circumstances which have not been taken into account or have been covered up by candidates for members of the Agency's Council at the time they have been elected. However, the fundamental reason why Parliament is discussing the agency's programme of hearings, the concept of its policy, is not foreseen here, and that is what is most important. If the Agency's Council says -- the SRS cannot appear in any of the state media programmes in Belgrade in the future, there is no possibility of Parliament discussing this. There's no predicting that possibility. It is not intended that the agency's advice because of such an attitude corresponds to Parliament and they can say - we know what kind of people you have foreseen for this agency's advice, that in their opinion Serbian radicals should neither exist nor live and they simply implement... Right, I know you'd want it, I know that's how you figure it out. You don't have to tell me so openly, but I'm glad you're telling me so openly. That's how you came up with it. You have come up with this advice from the agency to manage the broadcasting network in Serbia through it, instead of parliament or government, William Montgomery, as the Americans have done successfully in Romania, Bulgaria, as they do in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, etc. One that doesn't fit their concept simply doesn't exist. It is possible to criticise through public media, but not from the mouth of one who is the bearer of a political alternative and who does not agree to the concept of globalism and mondialysm. It is possible to criticise anyone: company workers; in a public institution; some opposition parties who only act it, etc., but someone who is the bearer of a different concept, who does not accept the American system of values, who is not a supporter of globalism, who is not a supporter of mondialysm, simply does not have the opportunity to participate in public life, and the Council of this agency has such a function. Through the Council of this agency, they carry out their will external factors, foreign forces, and your government can say at any moment that it does not interfere with the work of the Council of the Agency and that it has nothing to do with misbehave or disabling political competition to appear in the media.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22761	People's MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the DOS parliamentary group, spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22762	Mrs. Micic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, when someone creates such a subtle and tolerated law as the Public Information Act, which we abolished a year ago, then you cannot expect valid arguments from him during this debate in particular. Therefore, Article 6 of this Act is discussed which actually determines the process of the constitution of the Republic Broadcasting Agency. In that article, of course, there is no answer to all the questions that the proposer of this amendment opened during his discussion, but I am obliged to introduce him to the fact that there are some other members of the Broadcasting Law, among other things, Article 8 which accurately determines the Agency's obligation to adopt a strategy for the development of broadcasting in the Republic, with the consent of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It does not mention foreign forces, foreign intelligence services, embassies and ambassadors, the government of the Republic of Serbia is mentioned. As regards the impact that the Assembly and we as elected representatives of the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia can achieve within the competence and engagement of the Republic of Broadcasting Agency, I refer you to Article 29. This article sets out very precisely the situation and procedures on which we, as MPs, can intervene if we are dissatisfied with the work, not some fictitious agency, but members of the Council of the Agency, who will be, on our request, nine; who will have their own name and name, their obligations and rights. It is not exclusively possible to caricate their right, but to bypass a large obligation and responsibility that follows their engagement. Therefore, the Assembly may, on a proposal of at least 20 Members of the People's Parliament, resolve a member of the Council in cases which are specified in Article 29, and inter alia through the invitation to Article 25 of the Law, which states that all persons cannot be members of the Council. Therefore, political abuses are not possible in this case and they are precisely disabled through Article 29, or Article 25 of this Law. The strategy for the development of broadcasting is not determined by anyone to the right members of the Council chosen by us, and by the Republic Government, which we also choose. There's no room for fantasizing, very precisely this law, from member to member, allows for the development of broadcasting, and no way of collapsing it. We have been chosen to seduce order in Serbia and we all agree that, more or less, the irregular state in the area of broadcasting and this law does so exactly. But if in the debate we caricate the law by quoting only one of its members and not recognising the existence of any other member, we won't get far. So the Law on Broadcasting is one large law with 150 amendments and I suggest that it be the way we work.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22763	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Milos Nesovic, Branko Ružic and Rajko Baralic together submitted the 6th amendment. Does a representative of the applicants of the amendment want a word? The word is from MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22764	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Micic, with colleagues Branko Ruzic and Milos Nesovic, I have submitted to Article 6 of the amendment, which refers to a second position. The legislator, the legislator, proposed, "The agency is an independent legal entity and is functionally independent of any state body, as well as of all the organisations involved in the production and broadcasting of radio and television programmes and/or related activities." We propose: "The Agency is an independent legal entity. The report on the work is submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia once a year." ... God forbid you love me. Be nice and get serious. Already here, a previous MP who had an amendment to Article 6 has spoken something of what I want to say - we think it is more cellular that the Agency is reporting to the Assembly of our Republic, because there is no one who could thus be independent. One MP today defined it as the establishment of a fourth branch of government. The Agency is an independent legal entity and functionally independent of any state body. Who's to guarantee that members of the Agency will function securely unless they're responsible for what they're doing? Who does it hurt to have the National Assembly Agency report to work once a year? There are some other amendments that are related to this, which we will come to later. We believe that, in this way, one agency has been given the authority that no one in this country has and not only is there no one, but absolutely no one can, regardless of what the head of the DOS parliamentary group has spoken here now, there is no way to resolve the members of this agency. Of course, it would be just a scandal and I think that this amendment, submitted by the Socialist Party of Serbia and by the one who submitted the Serbian Radical Party, better and more precisely regulate this and give rights to the citizens of Serbia. I remind you that television subscription will pay practically every household in Serbia, at least once: for a house or a cottage, or I don't know what else, so it makes a lot of sense that everything about it, and what is in equal responsibility, should be found here in front of the MPs and that a report is submitted to the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22765	The speaker of the DOS parliamentary group, MP Cedomir Jovanovic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22766	Mrs. Micic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the same advice for Mr. Baralic is valid for Mr. Seselj. So, I suggest you read the law once again and then congruently to that law, you perform here. As regards the co-operation of the Republic Broadcasting Agency, or its advice with the Republic Parliament, or other state bodies, I am obliged to introduce you to Article 16. It's a bill of law we're discussing. In this regard, the principle of co-operation has been established, and this is not disputed. As for your amendment, which would oblige the Republican Broadcasting Agency to familiarise once a year with its report to the Republic of Parliament, I will refer you to Article 36 of this Law, which provides the public with the work of the Agency and the judicial control: "The Agency publishes its annual report on its work in the manner established by the Agency's Statute." On this occasion, I am also obliged to introduce you to article 33, which says: "The Agency's status, Rules of Procedure of the Council, an act governing the organisation of the Agency's professional services, the number and status of employees in professional services and other general acts of the Agency to bring the Council". These acts will be brought to me by a majority of two-thirds of the votes of the total number of members of the Council, and then the Assembly, therefore as MPs, will grant me consent or that agreement will be denied. It's an opportunity where we can adopt that kind of standard that you predicted. In no way can it become an integral part of the Law, because it would then, in fact, have to enter into this law all other provisions defined by the Statute of the Agency. That is why this amendment is unacceptable to us, and not because of our alleged desire for the agency to work past the public or beyond the knowledge of us as a representative of the citizens. So that's going to be, that question will be regulated through the exact answer given through the Agency's statutes. We are the ones who will give consent to that statute. Without it, it is not possible to adopt the statutes. I think this argument was necessary, because I don't want to get the impression that we're trying to trick anyone or that we want to pass some law that would be different from that law that we're publicly representing here. (Employer Seselj, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22767	Right on line, MP Rajko Baralic, first reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22768	Thank you, Madam President. I never claimed that you wanted to hide the Agency's activity from the public. Don't impute me what I didn't say! Don't warn me to read the Law, I've studied it very well! I propose a solution that is more acceptable to the citizens of Serbia than you propose. No one can have a problem because someone submits a direct report to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, not as you said here that MPs will be familiar with what is the subject of work or what has happened. That's what you just said. (The People's MP Cedomir Jovanovic, from the place: This is governed by the statute, not by the Law. () Be kind, I have listened very carefully. I didn't blink once, believe me. So you have no reason to impute unintelligence, malice. We have proposed an amendment, and you may or may not have to accept it, but don't tell us about the things we didn't ask for, or at least we didn't look for them the way you interpret it here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22769	Right on line, MP Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22770	There is judicial protection of the individual rights of participants in the competition for the allocation of frequencies. However, there is no possibility of collectively calling for the responsibility of the entire Agency's Avet, that Parliament says - the agency in general is not doing the job properly, it is not good at strategy. Who's going to review the Agency's strategy? That's the problem! There is no member of the Law, and this is about Article 6, you said here that the Agency's Council is establishing a strategy for the development of broadcasting. You just said that here. Secondly, you've respected my past Information Act. The law was good, and you challenged it for only two reasons, which prohibits the re-emission of foreign spy propaganda programmes in Serbian, such as Voice of America, BBC, Deutsche Great, Free Europe, etc. That law forbidded slander! What slander? I've moved several times for legal protection that's come from his norms. In the election campaign, the day before the elections, at the time of election silence, Curuvija announced to me in the Daily Telegraph that I had slaughtered Slobodan Jovic's wife; then, the newspaper "Today" announced that I had threatened if Montenegro were to secede, that Montenegrins would wear yellow badges; or perhaps what you were publishing that I stole 50 million marks, etc. Perhaps the penalties under that law were too high, perhaps it could be criticised, and you, who have introduced retroactive tax laws and who have taxed what has never been taxed retroactively before, have no moral right to speak of these amounts either. Can I now, these three minutes, as head of the parliamentary group?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22771	You'll do that tomorrow, of course.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22772	Okay.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-09-0.u22773	This concludes today's work and continues tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Bon appétit.
