ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-15-0.u21580	Dear People's MPs, Mr. Minister, allow me to explain in a few words why, at this point in time, this item of the agenda, which is the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Public Enterprises and the exercise of activity of general interest, is too high in the agenda; for several reasons. [[growls]] The first is that at one of the last meetings of the Assembly in the previous session, we adopted a law which in a comprehensive way regulated the area of activity of public enterprises and works of general interest, and one of the first reasons for the adoption of these amendments and additions was to confirm that the law that was passed in July 2000 was a comprehensive and significant law. The second thing - some of the motives are mentioned in the reasons for the adoption of this law, and it is essential that the control function of the public undertakings is performed by the founder of the company, and when asked by other forms of organisation that the control function is performed by the government, i.e. the competent authority of the unit of local self-government and autonomous province, depending on whether it is an organisational form of demarcation for the Republic, a unit of local self-government, or an autonomous province. In this respect, the proposal for those members does not go to that end. The government has changed its opinion and the basic concept by adopting amendments to the SPS parliamentary group, where it is essential that the Government has accepted an amendment that regulates price consent; that is, to the tariffs in municipal activities it returns to the authority of the local self-government executives, and consent is no longer required by the Republic's Ministry of Trade and Services. It is indeed at this point one element that should contribute to the uniformity of prices and tariffs in municipal activities, depending on the specificity of local environments. I was also surprised at this moment, reading in detail these provisions, that this material, before reaching the MPs, no one would look and read. I was really surprised by the explanation of the individual solutions of Chapter III; that is how the reasons for Article 11 are repeated twice, and none of these arguments apply to Article 11; and also, probably because of the reasons for an earlier proposal, there are reasons for these provisions, and it is for Article 11. The draft law states that it should enter into force on the eighth day of its publication in the Official Messenger, as provided for in Article 13 of the Law proposal. Then, Article 11 provides an explanation for a member of the 10th of August, and Article 10 for a member of the 9th of this law and that I do not continue to list. Indeed, as far as this argument is concerned, it does not deserve to be found at the hearing in this House at this time. The next thing I'd like to talk about is that the basic motive of these changes is, mostly, to control non-standard acts, prices, tariffs, but to earn money in public enterprises, and therefore to control Article 10; and if the control of annual programmes and plans is not established, then it falls under the authority of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which will administratively determine profits. Also, there is no reason to amend the first five members of this law, given that there are indeed public enterprises in municipalities, enterprises of general social interest, primarily in municipal activities, and most of them in the field of information, where local media founders, primarily radio stations, are more municipalities of the same district. There has been no problem in the practice so far with unifying the criteria and selecting members of the boards of directors. After these changes, this law, which is unnecessary, can certainly lead to certain problems in the functioning of administrative committees, i.e. public enterprises that are educated for the territory of several municipalities. I don't see any reason, if so far there's been no interference with the application of this law and the functioning, and there's not even a need to delete these members immediately at this point. And finally, I really have to say that public enterprises in the past ten years, with agriculture, have suffered the greatest burden of this crisis and at this point are in a very difficult material position. There is no reason to limit profits by administrative means to those who have endured all this burden of crisis, blockade and sanctions in the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-15-0.u21581	Messenger Lazar Marjanski is not present. All right, Vitomir Plužarević, here you go. You've got 17 minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-15-0.u21582	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the Law on Public Enterprises and the exercise of activity of general interest are governed by the terms and conditions and methods of establishment and business of public enterprises and other forms of enterprise in order to carry out activities of general interest for the Republic or the unit of local self-government or autonomous province. The law whose amendments are proposed here was passed in 2000, in line with the still valid Constitution of the Republic of Serbia that has not been amended. Article 72(7) The constitution of the Republic of Serbia has been established that the Republic of Serbia regulates and provides, among other things, a public service system because it is the rights and duties of the Republic of Serbia. Article 65. The Constitution provides opportunities for conditions and means of public service to be governed by law. As public enterprises carry out jobs of the general interest of citizens, the government of the Republic of Serbia must control the work of these companies, their organisation, the functioning of the problems encountered, as the only competent authority of the Republic of Serbia; this should be met by the Assembly in order to take the necessary measures in order to make business more comprehensive and efficient than the general interests of citizens. This law and all other laws that were on the agenda of the Assembly have the same guidance, which is that they are anti-constitutional. DOS consciously does so, the people observe it all and expect fast and quality changes that should be lifted from power by all those who support and implement it. In public enterprises founded by the Republic of Serbia, the aim is to preserve the work and other capital gains; this capital has its value. It is likely that these amendments and additions to the Law that someone wants to devalue that value and then privatise it according to the norms and principles as well as when all the laws are passed - the worse. The proposed changes largely erase the government's ability to control the work of these companies, especially where the government is not the founder, but are the founders of local self-government units, i.e. an autonomous province or two public enterprises. The proposed amendments have denied the possibility to control contracts concluded with third parties by public undertakings whose founders of the local self-government unit. In this way, it is not possible to control the flow and spending of funds, and at least to carry out jobs of general interest to citizens and units of local self-government. The Omnibus Law and the proposed amendments to this law give the possibility to establish, without the consent of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, public enterprises that were so far in the exclusive jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia, the founder of the Republic of Serbia. For example, the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina as a territorial autonomy can organise a public enterprise for forest or water management without the consent of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Serbia lost AP Kosovo because it is occupied, now losing control of the AP Vojvodina, its public enterprises, such as the Elektroprivreda Vojvodina, Vojvodina, Vojvodina, etc. He also lost the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina. We Serbian radicals have said a lot about this subject. There is also the possibility of a disproportionate price of public enterprises services in local self-government units, regardless of how much the price of services is given by the ministry of prices. Service prices form an enterprise according to the criteria of all components that enter the price formation, so he suggests with an explanation. It occurs to us that these proposed changes may be needed to make it easier for certain public enterprises to privatise themselves more painlessly, i.e. without the consent and knowledge of the Republic of Serbia. Is this the reason that Elektrodistribution is easier to sell, or its transmission system, so that our electricity price is even higher even though it is now the largest in Europe, and DOS has promised that this price will be realistic and normal for every consumer, which is not the case today. We believe that the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Public Enterprises are not in the spirit of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and that giving consent to acts of public enterprises by the Republic of Serbia is not the reason for the inefficient work of public enterprises, as the proposal puts it, in the light of the amendment and addition of the Law on Public Enterprises, but that the work of these companies is something else, i.e. there are other reasons. This proposal is the basis for full decentralisation of public goods management and opportunities for easier privatisation, i.e. the sale of these companies where there will be no control by the government, or the Republic of Serbia. All programmes on which the Government, or the Ministry, gives its consent are intended to preserve some public value, i.e. to protect itself from various influences that knowingly or unconsciously disrupt that value. NATO bombers have dropped most of their bombs on these very objects that we are discussing in this law today -- forests, rivers, bridges, railways, EPS, national parks, hospitals. The government of Serbia has not sent an account to the international community about the damage it has done to us, but the government is doing everything contrary to the fact that the asset is being added, and it's all doing it for a handful of dollars. That handful of dollars will cost a lot - abandoning, running from the ruling throne and that as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-15-0.u21583	The word has a folk MP, Zoran D. Nikolic, and the next one registered for the word is Milos Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-15-0.u21584	The Honorable Presidency, honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament, making efforts to find, in every act we are considering, the good and the less good, I will start from what I think it is and can be good at this bill, which, in my opinion, is at the very end and refers to the abolition of that famous ban on sponsorship, donations to humanitarian, cultural, sports and other needs, as regards public enterprises organised at all levels. Why do I think that's good? First of all, because our reality today is such that the government itself admits that there is not enough money in the budgets for what we called social upgrade yesterday, there is not enough money for culture, sport, humanitarian activities. We are witnessing that a large number of economic operators, potential sponsors -- donors -- have been shut down; this activity has fallen to a narrow circle of entities carrying the burden. I think it is right and fair that if the state cannot provide enough money through the budget for the sport, culture and other activities that are listed, it should be possible through its public enterprises to provide, in one honorable, correct and legal way, assistance to these areas and through this kind of sponsorship and donation. That's why I think erasing that member can have positive effects in these areas. Normally, if it's controlled and it's in accordance with the law. The second part of that same member, which refers to the return of compensation for members of boards of directors and supervisory boards in public enterprises, was, and probably will be, words, and against that part I certainly am. Although it has been a practice since 5 October for the boards of directors and supervisory boards of all public enterprises and institutions, I would say from the local community to the Republic, now more or less everywhere, some compensation or compensation to those members is paid, I do not think it is in line with the financial opportunities of the state. What I think is really essential in this law is in Article 10. I'm free to say that this law is made for article 10 and that it's actually worth talking about and paying attention to. For the sake of the public, I will read what is written in the law, as this article of the 22nd Old Law should now, following this intervention of the Government and the Assembly, read: "The improvement of the work and development of public enterprises is based on a long-term and medium-term work and development plan. For each calendar year, a public undertaking shall adopt an annual business programme. The annual business programme set out in Article 2 shows in particular the planned sources of revenue and expenditure positions by purpose, and now adds "elements for a comprehensive view of the business's income and employment policy" etc. The agreement on the plans and programmes I was talking about is no longer given by the government but by the founder. For these public undertakings at the level of the Republic of Government, there are founding rights. Also, a new stance added: "The government of the Republic of Serbia can bring about a programme under Article 2 to regulate the terms and conditions and method of calculating the total amount of funds for profits in the public enterprise and companies whose company is the founder of the public enterprise." This is, I would say, without being misunderstood, the government's protectorate over the largest public enterprises whose founder is the Republic. To me, it sounds a little self-administrative and Cardelic -- elements for a comprehensive view of profit and employment policy -- that termology has been slightly abandoned lately. We see it coming back again; it's being built into an act called an annual or medium-term plan. That's the plan of giving consent to the founder. This means either the EPS will determine the level of earnings, as the government believes it should be determined, that profits are still or that there are two, three, five percent (at the same time, that act should determine how many excess workers are in the company, as much as the government considers) or will not get consent. If he doesn't get the government's consent, that program hasn't even been brought in. The government is given through this amendment to the law the possibility of it by its act establishing both the height and growth of earnings and the number of employees who are surplus in these companies. This absolutely fits into this story, and unfortunately so we live years ago, that the IMF and similar institutions are still setting different conditions for us that our economy, our banks, our public enterprises should transform. Here, now we are hinting at thousands of surpluses in the electricity industry. These amendments to the law are currently arming the government with the necessary mechanisms to tackle these issues in a legal way. I agree that these are not easy questions, but I think we need to make it clear to ourselves and the public that, after this law, the largest public enterprises in the state are losing the character of the company. Companies, however, are independent economic operators that have some business effects on the market. Now the basic effects of business and business policy are taken into their own hands by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In this way, I repeat, performs a protectorate on these companies. I think it's harmful and I don't think it's good. For me, that's quite a reason not to accept this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-15-0.u21585	Thank you. The word has a People's MP Milos Todorovic, and the next one registered for the word is MP Marko Culibrk. Here you go. The remaining time of the SPS parliamentary group is 4.5 minutes. The Serbian Unity Party has 17 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-15-0.u21586	Dear Madam Presidents, the Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, by putting the agenda of the Assembly of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Enterprises and the exercise of activity of general interest, a large and significant issue has been raised - the achievement of public interest from the work of public enterprises. From the proponent's explanation of the reasons for the adoption of amendments and additions, it follows that the government's "self-critical review" has seen the functioning of public enterprises as a result of its over-authorisation and consent procedures has slowed down. The explanation, at first glance, sounds "convincing" and "student," but it's a whole other element to be pointed at. In fact, the issue of a consistent separation of ownership functions over the assets of companies of public interest remained open at the legislative level. The Federal Company Act has left (through two provisions - members 401 and 402.) Serbia's state of Serbia to establish by its laws measures and instruments which do not question the basic definition of public enterprises, that they are basically and primarily enterprises, therefore economic operators that, in market conditions, on the principles of a positive economic account, find the reason for their existence and survival. And superficial, especially more studio-based analysis of normative solutions, as well as practical experiences of continental businesses, do not give us the right to even a handful of optimism that a consistent separation of ownership from public-legal functions has been carried out. In this direction are very indicative provisions, which I will only indicate in the next lines of exposure in areas, which deal with the issue of the establishment and business of public enterprises with various aspects. What's the result? The result is: the unification of ownership and custody functions on the achievement of public interest in the area in which a public undertaking was established; the giving of greater importance to the achievement of public interest. This led to, apparently and without a number of statements, that almost all public enterprises are operating with significant losses, therefore, beyond any logic of organising market-oriented business entities, which they should be as enterprises. If this is added to the fact that public enterprises are established in almost all significant sectors of the economy, and I would say life, then the delusions and uncertainty of the practices of the promoter (Government), and only then Parliament as legislator, get, without exaggeration, an apocalyptic situation. Without any hesitation, the proponent decidently acknowledges the existence of a dominant public-legal variant and is convinced that the same objectives can be achieved by "reduction" of government powers, so to himself, by applying other provisions of the law, as well as by specific laws governing the issues of use, i.e. the availability of funds in the property of the Republic. A normal and responsible man, an MP for the Serb Unity Party, who speaks to you and comes from a middle where a very significant public energy company, which is loosing, has to seriously worry about such arrogantness, not to say the government's cynical position as a proponent. To say the least, it remains completely unclear why we are not already in a position to conduct a debate today and to regulate the overall public sector of the procession. For, in particular, the mark of the ugly arrangements of the business of public enterprises is also on the side of the regulations that regulate this matter. This has been done on a number of levels of generality, which directly and additionally opens up the problem of compliance, and leaves before the practice of public enterprises still a complex task of interpreting these and such regulations. In view of the overall relationship, it can be reliably concluded that the status aspects of the organisation of public enterprises, to a greater or smaller extent, are contained in the laws ( federal) on enterprises, in this (republic) whose changes are made and in particular in which the Republic of Serbia founded public enterprises (for oil and gas, liaison systems and PTT, electricity, rail, water, forest and radio and TV). The high degree of generality that regulates the relative matter and the mutual compliance of these regulations, beyond any doubt, demonstrates an unequal approach and inaccuracy. Of course, it goes beyond my expertise, but also limited business exposure time, to point to the content and reach of certain provisions of these laws, which are of particular importance to the status aspects of the organisation of public enterprises. All these public undertakings, originally established as one-entity, with their general acts, in particular the statutes, have settled a number of regret issues should be within the scope of legal regulation. The problem is further increased by the fact that the competent republican authority, giving consent to the statutes (convinced by legal experts), gives them the power of legal acts, i.e. sublegal acts. It exceeds the character of this debate if I were to enter into the content of solutions given in the statutes of certain public enterprises. Instead, in order to be consistent with the predetermined findings of ikritics, and then for the necessary changes, I am making a global review of the whole of the laws that founded public enterprises. I may repeat known things, but I do point out: in these special laws, public enterprises are originally founded as state-owned enterprises. This was done in such a way that labour funds -- which were operated by economic operators until the adoption and entry into force of these laws, were registered to carry out the work of the subject-matter of the regulation of these laws -- were declared state property. A unanimous stance on state ownership over the assets of these companies has also established the structure of the governing body, with the dominant role of the Government of the Republic of Serbia in their appointment. However, one number of board members is appointed from the staff order. In view of the fact that in the context of existing economic operators, which "entered" public enterprises, carried out and activities, that is to say, transactions which cannot be subject to the broadest interpretation under the terms of activity and business which are "inexplicable conditions of life and work", that is, the legislator in several cases (oil economy, electricity) identified which of the registered activities for the Republic are of particular importance. The common feature of all public enterprises is that they are originally established as one-entity enterprises, which are further tasked with establishing their organisation before the start of work and intervention by establishing public and other enterprises. In this way, public enterprises are, at least at the initial stage of their work, also established as holding state-owned enterprises (the exception in a certain sense is RTS). Such a conclusion can first be drawn from the legislative order to the boards of directors of these companies: that they are obliged to set up other public undertakings from the subject of their business, i.e. to establish companies that contribute more efficiently and rationally to the business of these enterprises; and then from the fact that such established and organised public enterprises, contrary to any elemental logic of the organisation of economic operators, could simply not operate. I point out another set of all these specific laws which have established public undertakings; this is a fact of reference to property restructuring flows, in accordance with the programmes of which the adoption has been put into the jurisdiction of the Management Boards, with the Government's right to grant consent to accept or reject those programmes. In this regard, it should be pointed out that all laws establish a limit, according to which the entire process of property transformation stops at a percentage of 49, which always and in any case ensures the dominant impact of the state on the work and business of these companies. The country's strong impact on the work and business of public enterprises is a common definition of all these specific laws. The participation of the state is particularly embedded in the section of the authority of the management boards for the management of the business policy of public enterprises; almost all major decisions are made with the consent of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, regardless of which it appoints boards of directors. The only, conditionally speaking, "favourability" of the state apparatus is that public enterprises, in the event that they are operating with a loss, to the extent that, according to applicable regulations, can implement bankruptcy, will not stop working, as the founder (in concrete cases - the state of Serbia) is required to provide funds for the smooth operation of public enterprises. It is very clear, therefore, that the commitment of public enterprises to the state is in fact a position of complete dependence. A completely narrowed and closed field of any autonomous functioning of public enterprises in the conduct of business policy. Almost all public undertakings do not have almost any authority in the domain of the prices of products placed on the market; they cannot influence profit policy; the absence of authority excludes the responsibility of public companies authorities for a business result; this leads to the state of the apparent stagnation, as well as the very significant and evident use of the value of public undertakings' funds. Clearly, the issue of responsibility for such a situation has been open for quite a long time; it should only be realised. Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and fellow MPs, I have pointed out the essence of the problem that we should have faced today. More than 10 years on stage is such a condition. Previous regimes bought social peace in Serbia, and brought them where they are. Do we have the right to close our eyes and continue with such a policy? As it is thought that restructuring of the business sector is being carried out in a normative galaxy, a new organisation is being adopted and a property transformation is being carried out. Instead of dealing with these issues, we are offered cosmetics and posamanthery of the draft law which is on the agenda, followed by a very poor and inconsistent legislative technique, which does not make sense to look back. For reasons exposed, the Serbian Unity Party cannot accept, in part, the legislative responsibility and vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-15-0.u21587	National MP Marko Culibrk is not present. The word has been delivered by MP Jovan Todorovic, and this is the last registered speaker according to statements for a word in the joint principle debate on the Law on Public Enterprises. The word is by MP Jovan Todorovic (the remaining time of the SPS parliamentary group is 4.5 minutes).
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-15-0.u21588	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have a seemingly short and not quite as important proposal for a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Public Enterprises. And yet, I would draw your attention to two basic questions that are trying to regulate these changes and supplements. First of all, when it comes to bodies in public enterprises, we have the practice of having more local self-government set up a public enterprise of general interest for more municipalities, but now these changes suggest that a decision on the choice of a governing body, or a board of directors in these companies, be made by the founder. The earlier decision was that the decision was unanimously taken by the founding authorities, when it came to the fact that one company was founded by several local communities. I think in practice with this solution we can come up with significant problems. Take, for example, a public enterprise dealing with water distribution in a multi-municipality area. If these municipalities as founders fail to reach agreement on who will be on their board of directors and supervisors, who will be the director of this and such a public enterprise, we will objectively have a situation that without government interference we have a significant problem on the ground with regard to the distribution of water to citizens. This solution suggests that the government does not have any jurisdiction or that it may in some way be an arbiter in possible disputes on the matter. So I point out this problem because it seems to me that in practice we will come to such situations that the Government still, by nature of things, has to solve the problems of this kind. With regard to the boards of directors and supervisors, I also point out one fatal practice, which is happening to us in life, which is that the parties in power, within the DoS framework, by some quotas or by keys, allocate the number of board members in certain public undertakings in local self-government. Let's say, when the DS gets the post of chairman of the board of directors, New Serbia gets a member, Social Democracy gets a member, etc.; regardless of the quality of these people, regardless of their competence, the presidents, or members of the boards of directors, must be appointed from these parties. It's a similar situation for both directors and supervisory boards, where the situation may be more drastic, so you have such examples that you, for example, Machine technicians or qualified metal profession workers shall be chaired by the supervisory boards and shall monitor the financial operations of very significant public enterprises, with a very high volume of funds during one business year. So it's something that is present in practice, which the legislator has not noticed, and if he already wanted to change the law, then he should have changed it in a way to suppress or discourage such activity in certain environments that unskilled and incompetent people are at the head of the boards of directors, especially supervisory committees. The second question that I question in the proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Public Enterprises is the protection of general interest. We have so far had the situation that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has given consent to important changes in a public enterprise that is not the founder, but in which is the majority state capital. This time, the promoter suggests that without the government's consent, we can make status changes to the public enterprise, that without the government's consent we can issue guarantees at the level of local self-government, avale, guarantees, etc. for those activities that are not the basic activity of the public undertaking concerned. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I point out the danger that at the level of local self-government, such lobbys can be created to allow certain public enterprises to issue guarantees or avala on the bonds and for those who could not possibly be in the position of achieving the work of these public enterprises. There is also no need for agreement on the assessment of capital in a public enterprise in order to privatise it, nor on the fact that action will be broadcast for privatisation, nor on investing capital in other legal entities. Here is a particular problem that, without the consent of the Government of Public Enterprises, which apparently have very valuable assets, can, without any consent, make decisions on the sale of those assets, and those assets directly in the function of carrying out the activity of the public undertaking. (President: Mr. Todorovic, you've exceeded your time). Madam President, I would like to remind you that as a member of the Committee on Development and Economic Relations, I have issued an opinion and I have not used that time. I know, you don't have to remind me, but you weren't there when I called you. ) In the end, since Mrs Micic warns me during the time, I suggest that you do not accept this law because it is not good and because it can cause negative consequences in practical application, and that you oblige the competent ministry to make a more comprehensive amendment to this law and to make this Parliament available, that is, to the discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-15-0.u21589	Since there are no more statements on the lists of parliamentary groups, I ask if the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic, president of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-15-0.u21590	Dear Presidency, fellow MPs, Mr Minister, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is considering a brief legal act, which is the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Public Enterprises and the exercise of action of general interest. The bill contains only 12 members who are mainly deleted from the existing law. This bill, although very short, confirms the traits that the proposer, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, has shown in practice over the past 15 months: the gap between words and deeds, the advocacy of market business, the retention of the government's control role, the emphasis on the principles of decentralisation of the state, the responsibility and independence of local self-government and public enterprises, and their effective restriction, i.e. negation. I, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, will list only three examples in favour of the claims made, i.e. to show why we consider this bill to be unacceptable. 1. This bill reserves the government's right, through the price-related ministry, to determine the price of public utility services. Members 10th and 11th say the decision on public companies' prices, the founder of municipalities, gives consent, in addition to founders and the republican price ministry. The price control of public utility companies was logical at the time of the economic blockade that was made towards our country, economic sanctions, difficult business conditions, the inability to obtain the necessary energy. Now, in changed conditions, for price control there is no logical reason. Control might also be acceptable if the government, in the interest of ensuring the equal legal and economic position of all citizens, intervened from the budget with certain financial resources according to local self-government, i.e. those public enterprises, so that certain services would be approximately equal for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. For example, I will mention the prices of water and heating, which can be and are different in municipalities. Different conditions and production of water, the price of cubic meter per capita and the degree of economic development of municipalities; then, the price of heating depends on the type of energy (is it gas, lubricating, coal), energy transport costs, due to the application of different coefficients in the calculation of prices for legal and natural persons etc. Therefore, if the Government, i.e. the competent ministry of this fact does not take into account, it will have consequences on the business and fate of these public enterprises. It is impossible to expect that the municipality can allocate funds for doping the work of these public enterprises, especially now that the Law on Local Self-Government has given it a number of responsibilities, as well as in education and health care, but has not provided adequate financial resources to carry out these tasks. 2. The independence of public enterprises in municipalities is also lacking when it comes to employee earnings. It is obvious that the government is afraid of the explosions of employees in these companies and does not believe much in the economic logic of business, since the bill envisioned, however, in a situation where no annual work programme has been adopted, that it determines the conditions and method of calculating the total amount of funds for profit. The government should interfere with the work of companies where it is the founder, and allow municipalities as founders to manage local public enterprises. The municipalities' congregations have a part of their jobs and responsibilities and can also organise this issue without the interference of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. 3. The government abolishes a member of the law banning public utility companies from sponsoring sports clubs, various events, etc. This member was prohibited from paying for the work of the president and members of administrative and supervisory committees without the consent of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Now the Serbian government is ending it. This means that the Serbian government is legalizing something that the DOS has explicitly been against in the election campaign and something that it has declared as its principle. To remind myself, the DOS electoral programme states that MPs and members of the government will only have the right to membership in one administrative, supervisory board of business, sports, learned and other social organisations, but without the right to receive any compensation in any form for the engagement. It is known, and it is known in public, that DOS does not adhere to this principle at all levels of the organisation of the state, so from the local community to the Republic. Some board presidents have more compensation for this job than are the receipts of Members of Parliament. By abolishing this member, in fact, only legalizes the existing situation. Between the election promises and the DOS's cash compensation, he chose the money, and he forgot his promises to the citizens, as in many other cases.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-15-0.u21591	Are any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, answering for a word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding the principle of shock. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Enterprises and carrying out activities of general interest, in principle. For 117 against 47, the abstentions were not voted 18, out of 182 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted, by majority, the draft law on public enterprises and the exercise of action of general interest. (SINGING) I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. National MPs Slobodan Pavlovic and Zarko Obradovic have jointly tabled an amendment proposing to insert a new article 1a in front of article 1. The government and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. National MP Zarko Obradovic withdraws the amendment and I find that the amendment to Article 1 has been withdrawn. National MP Miroljub Veljkovic submitted to the 1st amendment. The government and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The applicant for the amendment is not present. The word has been made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-15-0.u21592	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Article 1 of this Act, by deleting Article 4 of Article 4. The law, the legislator, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, points out that this special law, the Law on Public Enterprises, which is something else in relation to the Company Act, no longer wants to regulate relations in the company to carry out municipal activity or to act on the importance of more units of local self-government. So, he no longer wants the government of the Republic of Serbia to have one municipal enterprise, which forms two or more units of local self-government, regulated in this special law. It may refer us to some other law, perhaps the Law on Community Works, but if there is a law that regulates the work of public enterprises, then the law must provide for the regulation of the work of all public enterprises, all the abundance of the organisation of public enterprises in the country. We have remained on the claim that more municipalities, two or more, can have an interest in establishing a joint public enterprise. You know how tight the municipalities in Serbia are, and you know there's a tendency to go on with it. You already have before you a proposal for a parliamentary group to establish a new municipality in the Republic of Serbia. You have a municipality where the number of voters is 8,000, then 12,000; one by one. In Šumadija alone, I can give you an example - Batocina, Lapovo, Raca, they lean on each other and in half an hour you arrive from the end of three municipalities. They have, for example, the interest of the public company "water and sewerage" being established so that all three municipalities are doing jobs. They don't want to have three directors, three boards of directors, three supervisory boards, three technical services, marketing, over here, over there. They want it to be simple, to make it cheaper for citizens and for the company to operate more easily, possibly with some outstretched departments, but for one such larger firm to be better technically equipped because it will take less money to invest, and it won't have to have three tanks but one that will arrive everywhere, etc. So far, the law has accepted that possibility and has been fully regulated. She wasn't well-regulated, and that's where I agree. Namely, if two units of local self-government want to start a public enterprise, so they can't agree on what a founding act will look like, so they can't agree on who will be the director, they can't agree on the composition of a board of directors and supervisors, so don't even start. Who can't make a deal don't even start a company. So far, there has been a provision in the law that if an intervention of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is not agreed by a certain deadline, that acts will be adopted on their behalf and that was not good. This usurped certain rights, the original rights of local self-government. Why delete the entire possibility by eradicating one law? I'm sorry, what's that on your lapel? I'll explain to you under K-1,K-2,K-3,K-4 and K-5 what this badge means, but right now I'd like to ask you to let me present my opinion on the bill. Therefore, why delete this possibility; if there is no company in the Law on Public Enterprises, it remains unclear whether it will be able to be established, whether it will have to be required in the provisions of another law to establish such a company. The government, with little effort, could reject the amendment of the Serbian Radical Party, write its own that would actually accept the goal, the idea: that two municipalities, three, five can have a joint public enterprise and decide on how to manage the company, who will manage it. The local self-government units themselves will agree on this. You know that units of local self-government, and when they were in opposition to the republican government, very easily agreed on when some common interests should have come true and what they wouldn't now, in most cases, in municipalities and in the Republic of the same coalition, rule. So, I suggest you accept this amendment, and today the badge that the Serbian radicals wear is the support of the Sljivancani to not surrender, not to go there to serve the traitors. It's up to him to decide, and we tell him, don't give up.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-15-0.u21593	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? The word is from MP Joca Arsic, the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group for this agenda point.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-15-0.u21594	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, our pledge was to fully maintain this provision that was in the old law. However, it has not been accepted, nor has the amendment been regulated properly, and therefore I think there are justified reasons to accept this amendment, which the Serbian Radical Party, which partially retains the solution of the previous law, does not fully, but in part; therefore, retains the right for more local communities to establish a joint public enterprise. I think that amendment is justified for the reason that such companies live and exist in practice in the territory of this country. How are we going to further regulate the status of these joint ventures when we adopt this legislative provision? Whether each municipality in these joint ventures must form special public enterprises, and we know that the facilities built for the needs of several local communities are normally used together and that the most meaningful management of these joint facilities is from one centre. It is impossible to divide the inter-municipal water line, which is in the construction of the Municipality of Velika Plana and Smederjevska Palanka, into two parts. There must be a joint body, a joint venture, because it is a unique facility that serves the needs of two municipalities, or two cities. This is the case with the Milanovac, Arilje, Ivanjica joint facility, so such facilities live, exist, exist and they have joint boards of directors, a joint public enterprise, a common decision-making method. It is certain, and our pledge was, that even in the elements of the disagreement between these municipalities, there is a demand for arbitration, but taking evil if it is not accepted, of not accepting the full possibility of such a joint venture. I therefore propose to the Assembly that this amendment of Mr Veljkovic, or the amendment of the Serbian Radical Party, be supported, and I call on MPs to make a positive statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-15-0.u21595	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 44, against 108, the abstentions were not voted 28 out of 180 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Bozidar Vucurovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here's a word from the People's MP Bozidar Vucurovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-15-0.u21596	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment to this article is in fact a logical continuation of the amendment to Article 1 of this Law, which was submitted by Mr Miroljub Veljkovic, which this assembly did not adopt. As she did not adopt it, there would seem to be no reason for this amendment to be further explained, but I would like to warn you once again that your decisions do not usurp the basic rights of the local self-government units to establish joint municipal enterprises because of economicity, efficiency, savings, because the budgets of the local self-government units are already so poor that they only cover employees' salaries, and that any savings in this regard presupposes improvement of the municipal infrastructure, and ultimately a better life for citizens and local communities. But obviously, you have decided that such joint ventures will no longer exist, so if you have decided to do so, all I have left is to invite citizens of Serbia to a large rally of the Serbian Radical Party in Leskovac on Friday, May 17th. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-15-0.u21597	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 39, against 102 abstentions, there were no 38 votes, out of 179 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 4th amendment. The government and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here's a word from MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-15-0.u21598	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, in order to decentralise government, it is necessary for this state of Serbia to have local self-government and public enterprises on their own, that the founders handle these businesses and manage them, because if they invest and collect funds to fund these activities, the funds should in no way be allowed by the other, on the other hand, to interfere in their jurisdiction. That is, therefore, foreseen for Article 113. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Take what MP Tomislav Nikolic said; he spoke about the establishment of public enterprises for several local communities; it should be allowed and leave the freedom to organise public enterprises. In no case should those institutions in our country, which are independent in certain regions and areas, for which citizens separate certain funds; local self-government or other institutions that have the right to set up these enterprises, should decide to manage those resources and their assets directly, without any intermediaries, directly. Normally, the state can exercise control over the work of these public enterprises, in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and with other laws, particularly on government and ministries, according to resolutions that are competent to exercise direct control to enforce the law. Everything else needs to be decentralised with regard to the management of public enterprises. That is why the Serbian Radical Party remains on its amendment to Article 4 and we propose that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia adopt it. Thank you very much. I would also inform Serbian citizens that the day after tomorrow, the Serbian Radical Party is holding a large national rally, and I can tell you, (Glass: Where?) ) in Leskovac, from Friday to Friday, from Sunday to Sunday, thousands and thousands of citizens come to these rallys.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-15-0.u21599	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 39, against 104 abstentions, there were no 35 votes, out of 178 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic. The government and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here's a word from MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-15-0.u21600	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Article 5. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Enterprises requires that paragraph 3 be deleted in Article 15 of the existing law. What Serbian Radical Party MPs suggest is that part of attitude 3 remains and the rest of the text is deleted. To understand that, I will read to you what article 15 should look like if the amendment of the Serbian Radical Party is adopted... (Zagor; those from the women's network better learn squirm, because they are not interested in the Assembly anyway, that they do not receive): "The presidents and members of the board of directors of public enterprises...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-15-0.u21601	I ask the MP who is the speaker not to communicate with the MPs of the people, and I remind all other MPs of the respect of the Rules of Procedure and the obligation not to cast himself upon the speaker. I'm warning you, you have no right to comment on other faces while you're at the pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-15-0.u21602	It's not worth it. It's not worth talking about here in the congregation. But whoever doesn't listen in the congregation will listen on the street. Friday at 15pm, a broad charter -- Leskovac, a large rally by the Serbian Radical Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-15-0.u21603	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 35, against 104 abstentions, there was no vote of 37, out of 176 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Radojko Petric and Rajko Baralic submitted together to the 9th amendment. The government and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Do you want a word on behalf of the amendment applicants? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Radojko Petric.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-15-0.u21604	The President-in-Office, honourable MPs, Mr Minister, of the 22nd current Law on Public Enterprises has been regulated to bring in long-term and medium-term work and development plans, as well as an annual business programme. In the position of the fourth member, it is closer to determining what the annual programme should all contain. The current amendments to the law in Article 9 suggest that the annual programme should also include elements for a comprehensive understanding of the company's profit and employment policy. Furthermore, the current changes stipulate that consent to plans and the annual programme is given by the founder instead of the government of the Republic of Serbia. These changes are logical and acceptable. However, the government has proposed to add another position to this article that regulates the government's ability to adopt an annual business programme to regulate the conditions and method of calculating the total amount of funds for profits in public enterprises. On behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I have proposed that this position be deleted. The proposed provision of the Government is contrary to the provision laid down in Article 401 paragraph 3 of the Federal Company Act, which reads: "The establishment and operation of undertakings referred to in Articles 1 and 2 of this Article (public undertaking) shall be carried out in accordance with this law and the law governing the conditions and manner of performance of the general interest". Furthermore, the Government's proposal is contrary to the provision of Article 103 of the Law, which reads: "The provisions of the Part of the First (Common Provisions) of this Act apply to all forms of enterprise, and the provisions on companies of capital are equally applied to a socially public enterprise, if for certain forms of enterprise this law is not otherwise prescribed". It's just a provision in Article 62. The company law relating to the work of the Management Board determines that the responsibility of the Management Board is to propose the distribution of profits, as specified in point 5 of the same article, which means the setting of conditions and the way in which the funds are to be calculated in public undertakings. Why does the Government violate the provisions of the Company Act with its proposal? Why punish all employees of a public undertaking if the Management Board has not adopted an annual public undertaking business programme in time or if the Director of a public undertaking has not organised appropriate professional services to prepare the annual business programme in time. It is known who chooses directors and boards of public undertakings; if they do not finish the work for which they are paid in good time and professionally, they should be followed by measures rather than punishing workers for other people's mistakes. For all these reasons, I believe that this amendment should indeed be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-15-0.u21605	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 39, against 101, the abstentions were not voted 37, out of 177 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th Amendment in the same text was submitted jointly by MPs Dragan Markovic, Milos Lukic, Petar Petrovic and Adam Urosevic and joint MPs Rada Bajic and Rajko Baralic. The government and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 10th amendment was filed by MP Aleksandar Stefanovic. The Government, the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For one, against 113, two were abstentions, not 60, out of 176 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th Amendment in the same text was submitted jointly by MPs Dragan Markovic, Milos Lukic, Petar Petrovic and Adam Urosevic and together by the MPs Golub Rajic and Slobodan Pavlovic. The government and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible, so I realize that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Since we have completed a review of the Bill's proposal in particular and a decision on amendments, does the Proposer's representative want a word? On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Minister of Government, Mr Slobodan Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-15-0.u21606	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I have tried to hear yesterday and today all amendments, proposals, discussions, suggestions and criticisms of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Enterprises and to carry out the work of general interest. First of all, I want to thank everyone who wanted to contribute to making this law better. However, let me remind you all that one of the reasons why this draft law is on the agenda is precisely the Law on Public Enterprises and the performance of the general interest, which was adopted in July 2000, if I am not mistaken, which is practically by the then Government, the JUL-SPS-SRS coalition, was made to limit and control the work of local enterprises, public enterprises at the local level, so it is over for all, for business, for prices, for acts, etc. ask for consensus from the resolution ministry and the government of the Republic of Serbia. This was precisely one of the main reasons why we proposed a bill on amendments to the Law on Public Enterprises and the exercise of activity of general interest. It is short and simple and has in its focus, above all, a desire and a tendency to control the work of public enterprises and enterprises that carry out activities of general interest to the level of local self-government, everywhere the local self-government is the founder, with the aim that those who know the problem best and have insight into the life and business of these companies and are mostly asking about their fate and functioning. As for the concrete amendments discussed by this assembly, I would refer in a few sentences to the amendment of the SRS MP, Mr Miroljub Veljkovic, to Article 1. Bills of laws and amendments that are related to him. The basic reason why this amendment by the Government did not receive a positive assessment first and foremost lies with the fact that Article 7. The Law on municipal activities stipulates that the exercise of municipal activities can be organised for two or more municipalities, as well as conditions for the establishment and operation of these forms of public undertakings, and that the agreement lays down mutual rights and obligations and means of decision-making in the event of disagreement. It therefore follows that this provision is too high, as well as the provisions of Article 12(2) of Article 14(2) and Article 15(3), which also relate to the organisation of such forms of undertakings. In other words, it means that this issue is regulated and treated by the Law on Community Works and that it would be excessive for the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Enterprises and the exercise of activity of general interest to address this problem. It should also be said whether a company is public or not, and this is primarily determined depending on whether it performs matters of general interest, not on who the founders are, whether it is one, two or more bodies of local self-government. All in all, I call once again on the National Assembly to adopt this law on amendments and additions to the Law on Public Enterprises and the exercise of activity of general interest. Once again, I underline that the fundamental intensity of the legislator is decentralisation, delegation of competence and, of course, the transfer of responsibility for the business of public enterprises to those who should and should have the responsibility and who have the greatest insight into the work of public enterprises. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-15-0.u21607	Injury of the Rules of Procedure? Replication rights, MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-15-0.u21608	It is true that the coalition that passed the law that is now changing in 2000 was composed of the SPS, the SRS and the JUL. That coalition worked and it was very easy for you to remember and say the composition of that coalition. I would ask the minister to come out, so he can fluently pronounce the composition of today's coalition ruling the Republic of Serbia. I think he'd have stopped by the sixth or seventh members by now. It is becoming the minister's manners to always find in the final word some way that in some way, and most often for God's sake, forms transfer responsibility to those who were before them in power. We took that responsibility on our back by defeating the 2000 elections. We're aware of all that. You forget the historical circumstances in which the law, as it is, is brought in. The country was devastated by the NATO Pact attacks and exhausted by the restoration. It was still missing to let anyone in this country who deals with the common interest determines the prices of their services. Then we would have this situation that you have today, that citizens can't pay for neither electricity nor water, nor bread, or milk. We managed to keep it under control. By accepting the amendments to Articles 10 and 11 you opened Pandora's box. [[elevator in the O.R.]] You'll have no one left to call. In a few days, while lawyers in local self-government and public enterprises read what you did today and when prices start to rage, you won't have anyone to accuse, you'll have to ask again the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and those who voted without knowing what they were voting for, were you right when you let everything out of control. Local self-government has certain responsibilities. In this state should not interfere, but the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is under pressure because electricity cannot be paid, must not completely drop out of its control the way to determine that price; the government that sent the bandits of people to cut electricity, because the accounts are enormous (in some cities you do not enter, because you indirectly challenged that the people of electricity do not pay), will have to imagine... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... I'm done, I'm sorry, I'm gonna have to imagine if we were right. I'm telling you this as a man who knows this better than you do. You came from abroad, Minister, if you just give them a chance, if you just unlock the door, that box of evil will be on your head very soon.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-15-0.u21609	I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Enterprises and carrying out activities of general interest, in general. For 124, against 45, it did not vote 13, out of 182 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by majority. One notification: in agreement with the proposing representative, and on the basis of Article 95(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I set a break by Monday and on Monday we continue the 11th item of the agenda, the debate and the decision on the draft law on ministries. [[Applause]] Bon appétit. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002. I would like to inform you that 158 MPs have been reported to the official record. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units. Due to the lack of quorum, I'm setting a 30-minute break. A session of the Administrative Committee will be held at the break. [[After break - 12.30 p.m.]] Of the 126 MPs, as long as it takes for the session to continue, 120 members of the DOS parliamentary group attend, representing over 90% of the presence. I would like to inform you that a session of the Administrative Committee has been held at the break and that a decision has been made to apply the provisions of Article 103 to the MPs who apply to the panel, and then do not enter the hall. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which speaks of sentence. I'm setting a break to 15.00 hours. [[After break - 15,35]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I find that there are 119 MPs in the House of Representatives of DOS, representing over 90% of the MPs participating in the work, so I'm setting a break by 10.00 tomorrow.
