ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-31-0.u17135	Dear citizens of Serbia, the Honorable Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the Honorable Representatives of NGOs, dear guests from the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina, allow me to call on Article 146. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but we, too, allow me to realize that every day, as the work of the Assembly moves away, we start doing everything later and later. We started at 11:15 today and we're back on the quorum. The day before yesterday, we interrupted the session because there was no quorum. I really ask the parliamentary majority, who says there are 131 MPs, to already discipline their MPs once, that even if the bill they propose follows to the end and to be present in the hall, we would not waste valuable time because of the lack of quorum. Article 146. The Rules of Procedure state that the Proposer can withdraw his proposal, i.e. when the Proposer accepts the proposal of the majority, or government, then he becomes an integral part of the bill, because the National Assembly does not particularly decide. I am here talking about a precedent in legislative practice, not only in Serbia and Yugoslavia, but also, I think, all European democratic countries. We were witnesses when the parliamentary majority of the day in the National Assembly refused to accept the amendment to the Government of the Republic of Serbia on Article 16. Proposal for an omnibus law. So the order of things was this: The National Assembly rejected the government’s proposal. After that, the proposing representative, whether authorized or not, I am not going into it, because I really don't know if she could have decided on it by the Vojvodina Assembly within three hours of how long the breaks lasted, said they accepted all amendments, including Amendment V to Article 16 of the Law. I say that's not good. I propose that the Legislative Committee sits urgently on this case and make the right decision. I am telling you that if this does not happen, we will cancel the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's ratings, because it cannot be proposed by the Parliament of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina to be greater than the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. So you know the order of things. Paragraph 3 of Article 146 speaks clearly of this. So we refused Amendment 5 to Article 16 of this Act. I ask you to respect that and to realize that this amendment has been rejected. If you go over it, as is the President of this Parliament, Mrs Micic, then it really is not right. I warn you about this and I am telling you that we will really undermine the reputation and rating of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. If you allow me to abuse this pay phone exit, I am also a member of the DOS party, Mr Momcilo Trajkovic, today said that 10,000 Serbs have been surrounded, for ten days now, by KFOR and UNMIK combat vehicles and have no communication, that convoys cannot go and threaten their humanitarian disaster. I ask that the government deal with this and put this on the agenda to establish better relations with KFOR and UNMIK to prevent the humanitarian disaster in Strpc. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-31-0.u17136	The MP, Mr. Momcilo Trajkovic, asked for a word. Before Mr. Trajkovic gets his word, I'd like to give an explanation to Mr. Pelevic. National MP Borislav Pelevic called for members of 145 and 146 of the Rules of Procedure, which, to insist, has already been discussed three times in this assembly. All I can do as an explanation to provide the MP is to consult the stenograms from the sessions, when others proposed on the same basis and sought a different solution, i.e. interpretation, than given by the president of the Natasa Micic Assembly. As for the objection you made to the fact that the Assembly is late, she's justified. It is on the conscience of all of us MPs and of our understanding of our rights, obligations and responsibilities. There is no rule you can prescribe if there is no will to apply that rule. Are you satisfied with the answer or do you want to put it to a vote, although the Assembly has declared it on the same principle. Thank you. National MP Momcilo Trajkovic, replica. The basis for the replica is the mention in the presentation of the previous speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-31-0.u17137	The information Mr. Pelevic gave is correct. They've been calling people from Bezovica for a few days now, and I was there on Sunday. I must say, our people are there in isolation. Pressure is being made to accept candidates for the president of the Albanian municipality at any cost, in order to get an escort out of Strpec. There is another problem: a hundred people of Strpc are outside of Strpc in central Serbia and cannot return because there is no escort. I want to take this opportunity to appeal to the government to take appropriate measures urgently, to allow people outside the Strpce to return to their homes because they are in a difficult position; they have nowhere to sleep, simply. It's a very difficult problem. I think you need to get there urgently, talk to KFOR and UNMIK, so that the problem can be resolved. Just by the way, from the Kosovo elections held on November 17th to today, no one ever went there to visit that people again. They are extremely angry, rightly, and I fully support this proposal by Mr Pelevic, that the government urgently discuss it and take appropriate measures to prevent a possible humanitarian disaster. UNMIK and KFOR insist they will escort Serbs from the part, that is, Serbia, if they accept that the Albanian is president of a municipality where there are more than 70% of Serbs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-31-0.u17138	National MP Branislav Ivković, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-31-0.u17139	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, suddenly, and my date is in direct connection with the release of previous speakers for this pay phone. The theme is Kosovo and Metohija. In a way, Kosovo and Metohija are part of the fate of each Serbian citizen, especially members of the Serb people. In that sense, every citizen of Serbia expected that yesterday, state television on the First Programme would hear about everything that is going on in The Hague, in the process of former SRJ president and SPS President Slobodan Milosevic. Unfortunately, RTS is state television and shows how systemically it can be worked against the truth. [[Zagor in the O.R.]] The truth about what happened yesterday, it wasn't. I report to the Rules of Procedure, Article 157(1), in view of all that has been said about what happened at Strpce, given the fact that there is a delegation of the Association of Families from Kosovo and Metohija, whose family has been kidnapped or disappeared, and that yesterday before The Hague tribunal in the process against Slobodan Milosevic, by who knows which way, the false charge of genocide against the Shiptars in Kosovo and Metohija is repeated, I demand that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Article 157, Article 1 of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which requires and recommends that RTS's first programme in general be rephrased in yesterday's course of discussion to former SRJ President Slobodan Milosevic; Pszebno his statement, which exposes a false accusation against the Serbian people, gives complete truth about the state's policy and the fight for freedom of the state, not only one state. (From O.R.: Theme. The theme, my dear MPs, is true; the truth about what has been going on for the past ten years in the premises of the former Yugoslavia. I ask you to declare this request democratically, by voting. If you reject this proposal, we as SPS MPs will leave the session for two hours from the protest. We'll come back because we're confident that the so-called proposals. The bus laws or laws directly endanger national and state interests. We will return to you, and above all to the citizens of Serbia, explain the essence of our amendments to this all that has been submitted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-31-0.u17140	National MP Branislav Ivkovic called for Article 157(1), which reads: "The draft rules of procedure, declarations, resolutions, recommendations, decisions or conclusions can be submitted by the legislator, in writing, with an explanation". I remind the People's Parliament that the legislator in this assembly is every MP, and therefore no member of the Rules of Procedure has been broken, because no one has previously been prohibited from submitting a conclusion, a decision, a resolution, a recommendation, a declaration, etc. I ask you to keep this in mind when you make a proposal for a speaker that no one is slowing down and that you have the full right as a MP, you personally as well as the other 249, in writing, by procedure in the Assembly, and the Assembly will discuss, if that is okay with you. Are you satisfied with your education? Do you want to vote on the violation of Article 157(1)? Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) Therefore, no written proposal has been submitted, but the MP claims that this attitude has been violated. Would you like to vote? Yeah. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. For 54, v 92, abstention 26, did not vote 10, in total 182. I find that the National Assembly did not accept that Article 157(1) was violated because the MP did not even submit a written proposal for a decision and conclusion. Political law is the procedure of every parliamentary group. (SPS MPs leave the Assembly Hall. I ask the MPs to wait for the SPS MPs to leave the National Assembly room after their decision. We hope you'll be there in two hours. I ask the MPs to respect the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, without being thrown out of the parliamentary benches. That's forbidden to all of us as MPs. We continue the discussion in detail. The amendment to article 44 in the same text was submitted by MPs Branislav Blazic and Borisvoje Drakulovic. Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 29, against 86, abstentioned 29, 12, a total of 156 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 44th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ratimir Svirčević, Zivica Predojev, Teodora Vlahović and Kermeci Karolj. The proposing representative and the government did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Do the applicants want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Does any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For seven, against 91, with a abstention of 29, the vote was not 11 out of 138 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 44th Amendment was submitted by the People's sent by Bojan Kostresh. The proposing representative and the government did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. National MP Bojan Kostreš orally said yesterday that he is withdrawing amendments that are identical to its contents, which refer to various members of the law, but it is my obligation to read this amendment and remind the National Assembly that the MP did so during yesterday's session, which has stopped the debate in detail. Member of the 45th Amendment was submitted by MP Zivanko Radovanchev. Representative, Government and Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, he's not in the O.R. ( b) Does any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 29, against 93, with 25 abstention, did not vote 8 out of 155 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 45th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ratimir Svirčević, Zivica Predojev, Teodora Vlahović and Kermeci Karolj. The proposing representative and the government did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Do the applicants want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Does any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 22, against 97, abstention 23, the vote was not 11 out of 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 45. The proposer's representative accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 46th Amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Representative, Government and Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-31-0.u17141	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment to Article 46 is about forestry. The Autonomous Region demands that this area be regulated by this three-seat law. Foresting is an area that does not suffer rapid and reckless changes, which are evident in this proposal. The Serbian Radical Party's amendment suggests that the member be deleted. Forests are today organized and operate in a single company system called the Public Enterprise of the "Serbian State". According to the Law on the Forests of the Republic of Serbia: "for the sake of rational implementation of forest management measures, forest land and other forest potentials in a specific territory" forest areas are educated. Forest areas of the largest unit of the spatial division of the forest are educated according to geographical and natural conditions. In Serbia, 27 such continents are educated - forest areas. They cover forests in state and private property, equating the importance of needs and obligations. There are 110 forest administrations under the "Serbishum" Company, which represent basic organisational and operational units in forestry. The number and size of the forest administrations as well as their territorial schedule within 27 forest areas, i.e. landlands, vary depending on the surface and forest condition. These above elements indicate that new organisations and new divisions, as provided for in Article 46 of the Omnibus Law, are not necessary. This organisation can suffer and should experience certain changes, but these changes must be harmonised and pre-analysed at the state level, and this level is not the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina. Forest surfaces, despite major professional efforts, are still decreasing, while the degree of noise (29.6%) and the area of forest per capita (0.31 hectares) are practically stagnating at European level. The desired results are not achieved in either the stage of care and the meliorisation of the forest (the size of the treated area, the care of the rejuvenated, the cleaning, the screening, the substitution, the conversion and reconstruction), or the reshuffle, although in Serbia, the volume of shaming has been reduced by more than six times since 1982. Due to such movements, the structure of the forest is not improved according to the breeding form (the areas under the high and productive forests are approximately equal), and they together account for 89% of the surfaces of all forests. In Serbia, property of 44% of forests is privately owned, and 56% are state-owned -- and this information warns the foresters that something needs to be done on this plan, but not in this way that this member of the 46th Omnibus Law provides. Serbia includes three plant geographical continents: the first, covers the majority of Serbia with the most significant forest complexes; the second, smaller parts of southwest and western Serbia; and the third, forest areas next to Sava and Danube. Depending on natural conditions, the complex of forests, willows and poplars, watermelon, Polish jasen and iova are isolated. Second, the complex mostly celery and malt forest, and thirdly, the complex of whales and predatory types of forests, and so on, means all the way to those high mountain areas where the death and mountain weeds grow. The wood volume and volume growth in the Yugoslav forests is 307m cubic metres, in Serbia 235m cubic metres, and the volume increase is 7.6mm in average annual growth. As far as national parks are concerned, they, by the Law on the Forests, have an obligation to manage in accordance with the same. They are five in Serbia, and they should be treated as a single continent -- national parks, not that they experience now thinking of being divided. The task of foresters in Serbia is to increase education, i.e. - noise, and this can only be done if the state plans and invests quality resources related to biological investment. In all the times of crisis, the forest has remained the foundation of every society. That's how it's supposed to be nurtured and respected today. The forest is a complex form of biogenesis and as such deserves more attention and quality thinking than this Article 46. Proposal for a Law proposed by the Proposer. The Serbian Radical Party believes that this member should be deleted, and the Law on Forests should be regulated only after the constitution has been passed and all accompanying laws related to forests and forest complexes.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-31-0.u17142	Is anyone else answering for a word from the authorized participants in the debate? Yeah. ) National MP Tomislav Nikolic, representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-31-0.u17143	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the fate of Article 46 is, in fact, pictures of political relations, political climates, trade, blackmail, voting by order, which are now dominated on the political scene, including in this National Assembly. When we received the bill, it was obvious that the Government of the Republic of Serbia could not accept Article 46. The amendment followed by an amendment by the DOS MP, who is the director of the "Serbishum" Public Enterprise, and on TV we saw the start of the campaign, (and this government only deals with television campaigns), which justified the amendment to a member of the bill. The entire seminar is organized on how the forests are indivisible and there is no basis for forming a new public enterprise - Vojvodina (most likely to be called). All I'm telling you right now is part of history and everything fell into the water when one amendment to the government of the Republic of Serbia fell on the bill of law and when telephone ties between Belgrade and Novi Sad were heated. Now we here, as present, who, truth free, attend a theatre show, but the cards provided us with the people for this show, just waiting for how you will agree and how it is possible to resolve it within just two days, so that one general national interest ceases to be. Who determines at night what the national interest is, and tomorrow, when it wakes up and it is washed, gives up what the previous night has been identified and already nationalised to the citizens of Serbia as a general national interest. Where now is the director of the "Serbian" company to tell us, so how could it not have succeeded in these years as the DOS took over the management of the company to see whether it was possible to share the forests in Serbia or not. The amendment he submitted claimed that it wasn't possible. When he pulled the amendment, it turns out it's possible. Take note of the government's argument of the SRS amendment - to refuse the amendment and to make it more convincing, the government points to how the uncontrollable forest is being cut in Vojvodina, and as in a very small percentage it is being renewed and that only 200 hectares are being forested last year; for God's sake, this system will fall apart and let's push it into the hands of Vojvodina, that the Government of the Republic of Serbia does not correspond to the fate of the forest in Vojvodina. Well, it's not hot potatoes, the woods aren't hot potatoes anywhere, the woods are rich. The fact that the Government of the Republic of Serbia currently misjudges forests, both in Serbia and in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, is no reason to deny it. There's no reason to put that into the hands of those who've been taking care of it so bad. Obviously, the supervision of forest management in Vojvodina was extremely poor, and those of the same people who have worked in forestry in Vojvodina so far, will work in forestry and within the company "Vojvodinasum", so if it is of the total amount of wood cut in all of Serbia last year, nearly 35% cut into the territory of Vojvodina, and it has only 6.7% of the forest of Serbia's entire territory, it will be next year. Nothing's gonna change. Vojvodina will run out of forests, so it is not likely that the government of the Republic of Serbia is intended to show that Vojvodina will not be able to manage forests; it is likely that it aims to see the territory of the Republic of Serbia, to ensure control over the work of all those working within the state and to ensure that the control is unique in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. I don't want it to be like on TV "to keep the cow next door healthy." In this case, the government is acting like a "let the neighbor die a cow" to keep Vojvodina out of the woods. It will remain if the forests go completely into the jurisdiction of the Vojvodina and will be left without the forest and if the DOS remains in power, because the government admits that in 2001 the forest was carried out in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, and no one is responsible for that. Ever since we got the Minister of Agriculture, Water and Forestry, we've run out of woods, we're out of birds, we're out of big birds. It would be much better if we ran out of such a minister than if it were destroyed in front of us by flora and fauna, and you here are looking at whether at 11 or 11:30 there will be a quorum for the work of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-31-0.u17144	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? He doesn't want to. ) If not, I ask the MPs to declare the amendment to Article 46, which was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. For 23, against 84, abstention 21, 14 of the 142 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 46th Amendment was submitted by MP Miomir Ilic. Representative, Government and Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? (Applicant, Miomir Ilic, is not present. ( b) Does any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? He doesn't want to. ) If not, I ask the Members of Parliament to declare the amendment to Article 46. For seven against 84, with 19 abstention, was not voted 33, a total of 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the National Assembly Ratimir Svirčević, Zivica Predojev, Teodora Vlahović and Karolj Kermeci submitted together to the 46th amendment. The proposing representative and the government have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Do any of the applicants want a word? He doesn't want to. ( b) Does any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? He doesn't want to. ) If not, I am putting the amendment to article 46 to the vote and asking the MPs to plead. For 8, against 84, with 19 abstention, 17 of the 128 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 46th Amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Kostreš. The proposing representative and the government have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. National MP Bojan Kostreš said he is withdrawing the amendment, which ceases to be the subject of discussion in particular. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 46 of the amendment. The proposing representative accepted this amendment, the Legislative Committee believes that the amendment is legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Members of the 47th amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Stevan Kesejic and MP Dragan Tomic. Representative, Government and Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you are, the word is Stevan Kesejić, a National MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-31-0.u17145	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party have tabled an amendment to Article 47 concerning hunting. Namely, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management establishes and gives the right to manage, and also the right and obligation of users, in particular the Hunting Union of Serbia, which transfers its rights to hunting associations, as regards hunting grounds in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Now, with this law or omnibus, the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina wants to take over the powers of the Republic of Serbia and almost in the same way, as already regulated by the Republic law of this matter, wants to transfer it to the jurisdiction of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina. Well, so it says: it brings a programme of promotion, protection and cultivation of game for the territory of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina, in line with the unique programme for the region of the Republic. If, then, it is in line with a single programme for the territory of the Republic of Serbia, why would the autonomous province bring a programme of promotions? I guess she'd have to do it. Furthermore, the article mainly uses prerogatives that are split from the law and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and take over into the jurisdiction and authority of Vojvodina. But there's one crucial thing that's very important here. As the promoter here, Nenad Canak, says, "whose money is our money," "where is our money," and "who lit the grain," we have to explain these things through this article. I'm sure that S.H.I.E.L.D. would believe that the student didn't light the grain, if we could get the data I have, that it was the Minister of Agriculture who allowed the killing and destruction of the forbidden birds to be used. hunting sites, reserves, where particular security and the protection of certain savages are being carried out, especially birds that she was having an affair with. [[growls]] And the minister not only knew about it, but he gave his approval himself. You can laugh all you want. Instead of the police minister, Dusan Mihajlovic, dealt with this crime and corruption because the competent authority has also applied to the Supreme Court for the initiation of a criminal case against Minister Dragan Veselinov, you laugh so sweetly, so if you laugh, let the minister kill the pins and canaries in your cages, so laugh. This is about a large amount of foreign currency being poured out of Belgrade, not out of the pockets of the Duke's workers and peasants, not out of the Duke's hunting grounds, but being poured out into the pockets of ministers that you are protecting and defending here today. That is why this member, in fact, aims to avoid one control, so that the province's government can behave uninterruptedly and in a way that is today an autonomous minister -- Minister Dragan Vesenov, who has issued a license to a private company - "Kingivska Prevelice", who deals with hunting and tourism... (President: I ask the MP to stick to the content of the members and amendments)... I absolutely stick to the amendment, absolutely. So, it gives permission to a private hunting and tourism company... (President: I remind the MP that the bill changes the area in which public affairs are carried out and that he describes the existing state of affairs according to his information). Please let me finish. (President: Please return to content). This has narrow ties - and thus prevented Article 47 from achieving point 1) promotion and protection of farmed game, because this company deals exclusively with the shooting and sale of game, and not with cultivation and promotion, or protection. So you can see it has something to do with what I'm talking about. (President: six minutes. ) Therefore, the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group proposes that the parliamentary majority accept this amendment, unless they are for corruption and for such illegal actions as I have shown you here.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-31-0.u17146	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? Here's a word from MP Tomislav Nikolic, representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-31-0.u17147	Ladies and gentlemen of the People, in this absurd situation, in which you wish to divide a small republic, not even a state, into even smaller parts, I could understand a lot. If, for example, my Bajcetina had appointed the Minister of Agriculture, which is on the Vidic mountains, at 900 meters above sea level, and if it were a natural Vojvodina as a minister, I would understand that my Laza says - wait a minute, man, he's never seen these tractors we drive, he's never stopped in front of a 100 or 200 acres field, he can't do that, you're making people out of Serbia, and we in Vojvodina know it best, I could understand that, or that kind of protest. But right now, to trust Vojvodina, an autonomous province, (to God - Vojvodina), the entire area of agriculture, and also hunting, and the minister from Vojvodina, and to ruin everything he touched in the area he owns. Last night you watched state television and the state television has to say that the sugar tail is not paid - and here people are burning tractors, moving into the fields to build a new sugar tail program. Here, in this area of hunting, his sin is particularly expressed. Had it not been for random control at the Italian border, we would not have learned of sin, of crime, which is on Vovjodine territory, meaning in the territory of Serbia, at a time when the Minister of Vojvodina was made according to the goods that few countries in the world have. From one hunting grounds, which was managed by a hunting society, the minister has singled out one special piece, past all the grounds, and you now foresee that he has a minister from Vojvodina, a duke's minstar, and this one was duchy, from Vojvodina, for a special purpose, even though he had no right to do so -- and, the small birds disappeared on the tables of angry Italians, where even by law these birds were forbidden to serve for food, but they were delicacies, even when the delicacies were unkilled, but hundreds of thousands of small birds were caught by nets or otherwise, and then killed systematically. When it's such a prehistory, these little birds -- you see there are peoples in the world that you hold to be civilized, to whom you want to look, to be fed. Here, for a few thousand marks, dollars or euros, the soul is sold to the devil. No one's head hurts. A government would have fallen in another country if such a crime had happened on her territory. You're still saying we should reward this minister, because he's from Vojvodina. You may be taking over the Minister of Agriculture so that he becomes the minister of agriculture of the AP Vojvodina, and just in case he goes there to transfer this boss over the small, helpless birds. He can organize, co-operate with Italian countes, he can take the money, he can find a place where birds will be killed, and what we can teach someone else now, Mr. Vesenov is extraordinary for that, and he has a pedigre family, he can destroy both the state and the people. Please, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, take the business of leading the state so seriously as we take the opposition business, that you put as much effort into leading the state as we do in our opposition business. It'll be better for the state. You no longer have a quorum in the National Assembly before the opposition attacks. Why don't you have a quorum on the laws that determine the jurisdiction of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina? Because many of you are ashamed to participate in this shop. (Milka Marinkovic: It's not true and don't say anything, don't talk. () Of course, those who are not ashamed at all can be heard in direct television. They can't help but win. Milka Marinkovic: Of course when you're banging. I can't keep my mouth shut when you're banging. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-31-0.u17148	I ask the MPs to respect the Rules of Procedure, and I remind the speaker that it is five minutes and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-31-0.u17149	No matter how much you don't vote for this amendment, I'm just taking the opportunity to warn you one more time. I'll remind you of what you're doing these days, one day when unfortunately it's too late for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-31-0.u17150	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 16, versus 92, abstentioned 15, the vote was not 11 out of 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Ratimir Svirčević, Zivica Predojev, Teodora Vlahovic and Kermeci Karolj submitted together to the 47th amendment. The proposing representative and the government have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Do any of the applicants want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Do any of the authorized participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that it has joined the vote of 120 MPs, which is not enough to make any decision and is the basis for revoking such a vote. I ask the People's MPs to determine the quorum. I shall inform the Members of the Parliament present that in 12 hours and 14 minutes, I am setting a break that will be completed at 1300 hours. I ask all MPs and my colleagues who are obliged to do so by 13.00 hours, so that we can continue the work of the National Assembly on a regular basis.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-31-0.u17151	Since the electrical system has determined that we have a quorum, we continue to work. I put the amendments to the 47th vote together by the MPs: Ratimir Svirčević, Zivica Predojev, Teodora Vlahović and Kermeci Karolj. For 5, against 98, with 24 abstentions, there was no vote of 16, a total of 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 47th Amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Kostreš. Representative, Government and Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does MP Bojan Kostresh want a word? No, I don't. ) The MP withdraws the amendment. So, MP Bojan Kostresh, withdraws the amendment to Article 47. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 47 of the amendment. The proposer's representative accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 48 of the amendment. The proposer's representative accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 48th Amendment was submitted by MP Lazar Marjanski. Representative, Legislative Committee and Government have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-31-0.u17152	Dear People's MPs, in this amendment that I have submitted (the government has accepted an amendment that is not correct) I have asked that the compensation from the water industry belongs to the local self-government. What's going on: when it was the Tax Act, the rate of 20% is water economy. That's when I asked for that rate to be reduced for the water industry. Now, the 20% rate in one way will be transferred to the AP Vojvodina, of which we in the Melenci have nothing, literally nothing. Water money, I don't know who controls it. The money that's given, they're not coming back. I asked it to be transferred to local self-government -- it's certain that one part will remain for the Republic, it should be 5%, and 15% will be transferred to local self-government. Because we who pay for that self-esteem know what it means. Here in the O.R., some people, if there wasn't a TV, wouldn't know there was a live chicken. All of us who work the earth and work, we know that the water industry is a bloodthirsty and it's screaming skin, we need that money back for the water industry. It's exactly the same for me, whether it goes to Novi Sad or Belgrade. They need money to get back to the peasants. The Republic's money will be taken by the province government, and we don't have any of it. That's why it's most common and best to return most of the money, about 15%, to local self-government, so that people from the village can benefit. So far we have had promises from the Minister of Agriculture: this will be it, there will be parity. The price of corn is 5 dinars, seed 11 dinars, 12 dinars; in addition, the price of ransom corn is the same. It's the water industry that takes a big toll. Nothing returns to the village, and all you ask is that the village fulfils its obligations. Congratulations, you've honestly taken from who you took from, now she's taken from this government, from whom she'll take from the province government, and that money won't go back to where they belong. I'm sure he'll either go to the killing of birds or Djelic will resuscitate some failed companies.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-31-0.u17153	Please, is anyone else answering for a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-31-0.u17154	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is how some of the state entities got to the water companies, at least that's what the Government of the Republic of Serbia says, which conveys the terminology imposed by the European Union in this area. We're starting to divide by water-based entities. A prominent fruitmaker from Grocka Dragoljub Raja Radosavljevic addressed the government of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Agriculture, as he heard that the government of the Republic of Serbia is granting loans to the European Union for irrigation. He was told by the Ministry that the loans to irrigate peasants could win. They asked for his information. When he introduced himself and said he was from Grocka, they told him he couldn't, because these are loans only to the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina. That's it, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that's about what's coming for us in the future. That's what you know, you keep quiet, you won't say here. There will be no more Save, Danube and Morava. Indeed, these are all about how water is to be organized (from the gym they earn). You can throw as much as you want. If you knew what I didn't cry over, you wouldn't think of calling me that way. If you knew how little you were smart, you wouldn't speak to me at all while I was at the pay phone. I'll use every bench throw to use rough words without getting a warning. So you'd better shut up, you look very nice on TV. By introducing some of the rights of the autonomous province over the waters, over the water - regulated area, some continuity of separation is held. As many ministries in Vojvodina, so many demands for autonomy in these areas, so many new services, so many new hand-to-hands to all Serbian citizens, no matter whether they are on the territory of an autonomous province or on that part of Serbia that has not yet been divided into some autonomous provinces, and expects when and how it will be and what it will look like. Of course, you haven't accepted 40 amendments to the SRS, so you won't accept this one. Let it remain recorded - and the stenographic notes from the last century exist in the library of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and so this day, one day, when it is possible for cold heads to think and talk about everything, one day, people, whom you now seem to separate as minors to some new states, when they come to themselves, when they have the right to vote, by reading notes, will find out who divided them and maybe even introduced them into conflicts. By listening to the exposure of Nenad Canka to this speaker, of course, I wasn't afraid, but with the caution it has given me over the past ten years of this people's history, I realized that we can expect conflicts in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. We wish to save our souls and warn you of the consequences they will come to. You, however you please.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-31-0.u17155	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. ) I put the amendments to Article 48 to vote. For 48, against 90, abstention 28, was not voted by 11, a total of 177 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Miomir Ilic to article 48. Representative, Government and Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. The amendmentr wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-31-0.u17156	Honorable MPs, especially Serbian citizens, have submitted this amendment to the so-called "SPS". The omnibus law, proposed by the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina and called it the omnibus law, which we can freely call the law of the mundane. To transpose certain rights already passed on by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and already represented by law, which will be transferred from 24 areas to autonomous province, and to legal solutions, certain laws of the Republic of Serbia have already been transposed. I see no reason why we are talking about this, especially since 30 amendments submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia have been adopted and this proposal no longer represents anything - especially about natural resources such as forests and water, the national treasure of the Republic of Serbia, because no country in Europe, or, if you want to, in countries you call in transition, has allowed no single policy to be conducted in that area. Since we were not present when it came to the woods, I will talk about the waters, where, as an expert in that area, I have had a certain experience in 30 years of work. For this reason, the SPS has submitted an amendment to delete from Article 48: point 1) "bringing" a water-based base for the territory of the autonomous province in line with the water-based Republic of Serbia; "for example, point 3) set up public water management companies in the territory of the autonomous province"; and, point 4) "concerning the legality of acts". I must say that the Water Law, the Space Plan of the Republic of Serbia, is then the Strategy for the Development of Serbia's Water Management until 2005. A unique development of the Republic of Serbia's water business. I must say that the water base of the Republic of Serbia was built on professional analysis, not political matters. JP "Serbia" founded in 1992, which uniquely manages and manages natural resources, i.e. water, in these ten years did not deal with politics but rather with profession, gave a concept of development from this area, especially as water is a national treasure that needs to be preserved and that should be unique. I must say that in the development of our water organizations and in an area that has a tradition of over 90 years, the AP has only had good experience with its experts, these experiences have been passed on to central Serbia; by forming JP "Serbia" these experiences have agreed and had a unique approach. We cannot share national treasures in some territory called administrative or territorial -- and there are also known hydrographic networks, which should only be the basis for seeing that area. In a water-based Republika Srpska, they gave direction and development of the water industry by 2021, which blended into the Space Plan of the Republic of Serbia. There are experts here, like Professor. Branislav Ivkovic, who participated in the work of the Space Plan of the Republic of Serbia. He could say something about it. As an expert, I'm saying there's no need to share this, because this is all transferred. I will mention only for investment in water industry: the Danube-Tisa-Dunav main channel network invested the Republic of Serbia together, the Republic of Serbia, the Israeli budget, from 1953 to 1977, uniquely. We can't have a water-based base to share in all kinds of hammers, to have everyone pick up their drawers, to keep their money in their drawers, and to break something that's natural. Therefore, I believe that there is a basis here for the adoption of the SPS amendment and for these points to be deleted. In particular, as at point 2), Article 48 of the bill gives the right to the AP Vojvodina to give consent to the amount of compensation and to raise funds from those fees on the territory of the AP. All other areas are regulated by the spatial plan, the water base and the strategic development of the water industry by 2005 and 2021, respectively. I believe that I was clear enough and that the amendment should be adopted, and all in the interest of the unity of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-31-0.u17157	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Branislav Ivkovic, president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-31-0.u17158	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, it's not easy to talk about Article 48, where it's about a key resource for one nation, and that's water. When you've already passed the law by which a fisherman fishes at the mouth of Morava in the Danube, when he catches a fish, he can live to see her say, "I'm sorry, but I'm from Eckia, for me it gives Vojvodina's jurisdiction, that someone catches me." The country's water industry is the basis for managing the country's key resources, which is water. Serbia, especially Vojvodina, are not richer in water. Serbia as a whole has enough clean and high-quality waters, but unevenly distributed. The country's key potential, 60%, is at the level of the Uži region and Užička district, the country's other potentials are poor and must be transported, and especially threatened is Vojvodina. The Vojvodina does not have good groundwater, there is very unquality groundwater, which should be drawn from great depths, and should be invested in their processing for water to be drinkable. That is why, the quality of one country, the management of one country, is reflected in the quality of governance of the country's key resources, which is, above all, water. Let me tell you, at the time of the old Serbia Constitution of 1974, when two autonomous provinces had adopted their own spatial plan, and when Serbia as a whole couldn't have a spatial plan because both autonomous provinces didn't want to give consent to the development of that spatial plan, we had solutions that were at the border to be insane. Vojvodina had almost no new bridge over the Danube and Savenia planned for the next 20 years, and Kosovo and Metohija were letting the waters of the Black Dream go 56 cubic metres per second to Shipar in Albania, while taking from Shumadija from Ibra, the Ibar - Lepenac system, the water for Kosovo and Metohija. Such foolish solutions have affected the adoption of the 1990 Constitution and Serbia becomes a normal state. Article 48, in particular points 1) and (4), says what it is. If in point 1) is said to "bring a water-based base for the territory of an autonomous province", and yet with hope and direction it is written -- in line with the republic's water-based base, it seems fine and man would think -- you know what, it's just the development of Serbia's water-based base as a whole. If point 4) reads, "He controls the legality of acts", then he who understands what it is he realizes that the Republic of Serbia loses all rights for republican laws -- supervision and control of the handover to Vojvodina as a separate state. Who will judge whether the water business base of the province of Vojvodina is in line with the Republic's water base? Who will assess whether the data provided for the water industry, some new innovation, based on the Republic of Serbia, are the real data? Who's going to decide if they have to give at all, if your data will have any value at all, and if anyone listens? Vojvodina decides, decides the oligarchy that is ruling from Novi Sad in Vojvodina, not thinking about the rest of the Republic of Serbia. So what it says is that the water base will be done in line with the country's water base of the Republic of Serbia, it would be worth not having a member of 48th point 4) who says, "is overseeing the legality of acts". That point 4 says that there will be a cake and a knife in the hands of the oligarchy in Novi Sad, and they don't care about the rest of the Republic of Serbia. What is behind it is said point 3) and it says to set up a public water management company. The only thing that matters now is the legal but illegal assembly, because it was elected on October 8th at that event after October 5th, the Assembly that is the source of Serbia's biggest political disturbances, after the DOS summit, normally, which is important, that they take action and that they have an enterprise, and that they are in their own position, and they don't care about the whole. So, basically, after one desperate position in 1974, from a good position, we were able as a country in our territory to do a comprehensive water base, to do a comprehensive spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia, which is our optimal solution for the country as a whole and guaranteed even development of all parts, again now on the descending path to allow the parts to think of themselves. The key thing spoken to students in the field of system theory, information and optimization is the following - cannot set optimal solutions to individual parts of the system as an optimal solution to the system in general. You're doing it right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-31-0.u17159	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? Authorised participants? National MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic makes a mistake because he is not authorized to participate in the debate on amendments. Akone, I am putting the amendment to the vote and I am asking the Members of Parliament to declare the amendment to Article 48. For 51, against 94, 30 abstentions did not vote eight, a total of 183 MPs. I understand the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Ratimir Svirčević, Zivica Predojev, Teodora Vlahović and Kermeci Karolj submitted together to the 48th amendment. The proposing representative and the government did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Do the applicants want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Does any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For nine, against 125, abstention 31, was not voted 18, a total of 183 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 48th Amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Kostreš. The MP orally pleaded for the withdrawal of this amendment, which ceased to be the subject of discussion in particular. Members of the 49th amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Dragan Colic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The proposing representative accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment of MP Dragan Colic, identical with the amendment of the Serbian government, has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MP Bojan Kostreš has tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 49 be added after article 49. The proposing representative and the government have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He doesn't want to. ( b) Does any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? He doesn't want to. ) If not, I am putting the amendment to Article 49 and the new Article 49a, which is the addition, to the vote. For 9, against 128, with 28 abstentions, there was no 18 vote, a total of 183 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Ljubomir Kragovic submitted to the 50th amendment. Representative, Government and Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There is a word from MP Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-31-0.u17160	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the past's message is circulating with Serbia. Unfortunately for the 1974 Constitution and Serbia so arranged, it mobilized the children of communism, former pioneers, to rebuild and activate, to return 30 years, to introduce Serbia as it was after the 1974 Constitution. The proposed law will allow, like after the 1974 Constitution, to form new centres of power, new bureaucratic state appliances, which will only make life difficult for Serbian citizens anyway. The reason for the government of the Republic of Serbia that this legal project will contribute to decentralisation and democratisation is political demagogy, which enables not decentralisation, not democratisation, but deconcentration of the power of one part of DOS power. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the 50th Law define other areas in the law and try to protect them from the use of the name Vojvodina, only in the area of transport and the production of alcoholic beverages. Not only is Article 50 contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the Constitution of the SRJ, but it is unspeakable and absurd and can be interpreted differently, so it is necessary to fix and define precisely. I quote Article 50: "Autonomic province, through its organs, gives consent to the use of the name "Vojvodina" on the brand of alcoholic beverages", which means that any autonomous province can give consent to the use of the name "Vojvodina", currently two, and in the perspective of six autonomous provinces. The promoter probably wanted to usurp it and keep it to himself, but he didn't define it precisely. What happens if some other autonomous province gives consent to the use of the name "Vojvodina" as a brand of alcoholic beverages? What happens if the AP Kosovo and Metohija agree to use the name "Vojvodina" in the production and transport of wine, brandy, vines or any other alcoholic drink? What happens if it appears on the market of the duchy white, duchess black or duchess line? Who, in that case, is competent to protect the use of names, origins, geographical positions, because a member of the 50th is so badly defined as to enable different interpretations? With my amendment, in front of the SRS, I suggested that the word "Vojvodina" be replaced by the words "Autonomic Region" for a number of reasons. What leaves no doubt about a member of the 50th proposed law is the use of the name "Vojvodina" in other products. Why is it limited to alcoholic beverages only, what about the use of the name in transport and the production of tobacco, transport and production of food products, transport and production of industrial products? Is he going to, for example? The cigarette factory in Chačka ask for the consent that their cigarette bears the name "Vojvodina", or "Vojvod's Light", or "Vojvod's Classic", or it's already agreed in advance. What happens if some agricultural machine factory gives one of the machines the name "Vojvodina", e.g. "Vojvodina tractor," "Vojvodina's" combination, etc.? Who's this factory gonna ask for consent to use the name "Vojvodina"? All these allegations lead to the fact that this member of the proposed law is not only contrary to the Constitution, but inadmissible and against himself. On the other hand, this law, as well as the Serbian Government, gives up other provinces, which is figure in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which is about Kosovo and Metohija. Let me remind you, ladies and gentlemen, the occupation forces in Kosovo and Metohija these days are holding you in total blockade, total isolation, 10,000 Serbs in Strpc, do not allow anyone to leave Strpec, as well as anyone to come to Strpce. They bulldoze, arrest and blackmail Serbs, to accept first the president of the Municipality of Šiptar, and then enable them to accompany and move in convoys in the direction of Strpc and from Strpc. Is this the behavior of the occupier in the agreement between Covic and Hekerup? Why doesn't the government intervene, why doesn't he send planes and helicopters to Strpce? (President: I ask the MP to bring his current exhibition into contact with the content of the amendments. ) Is it necessary for Serbs only to register and vote, and then leave them at the mercy of the occupiers and the Shiptarian terrorists? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-31-0.u17161	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? There is a word from MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-31-0.u17162	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Article 50, you can actually see the purpose of the entire proposal of the Omnibus Law. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia should have been fairly trampled and it was written in the law's title that this is the law on determining the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina. Then it'd be clear, we wouldn't be playing "closed eyes" here. This 50th and says that an autonomous province, through its organs, gives consent to the use of the name Vojvodina on liquor stamps. He didn't even try to make it right, and the government didn't even try to correct him, to say that the AP Vojvodina gave consent to the name of the Vojvodina on alcoholic beverages. So, throughout the law, the words "Autonomial Region of Vojvodina" were replaced by the words "autonomous province", which means that the unity of the Republic of Serbia, constitutional unity and constitutional order is completely threatened, and in one part of Serbia's territory special laws are governed differently by special laws than in another part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia. And now I'm asking the promoter, and this government of ours in exile, and why just the name of Vojvodina and why only on alcoholic beverages? What is it that forces the leadership of the AP Vojvodina to protect the name of the Vojvodina on the brand of alcoholic beverages? What does that even mean, the name of the Duke? I understand that people protect a family name, one of their own personality, which they've been pulling for centuries, but that once a part of the territory has the absolute right to determine whether a toponym will be used and how it will be used, that leads to absurdity. I'm asking you, is this just for the territory of Vojvodina, or is it possible that the winemaker from Negotina, if he wants to call the wine of Vojvodina, will have to ask the autonomous province? Maybe the question is indifferent, maybe you mean what's going to happen, and the law doesn't mean things. As soon as there's a law, there can be disputes under that law, and when disputes are conducted, the judge has to rule out who's right. Who in this case will be right, dear gentlemen, when the autonomous province gives consent to the use of the name of Vojvodina? Since when has the Republic of Serbia given up many of its powers, including this? I understand that Ivanka Broz can protect the name Tito, because he was her husband; let me understand that another woman can protect the name of another man. But if the authorities of the autonomous province were guardians of the name of Vojvodina and that Serbia should no longer be involved, that no one in Serbia can use that Serbian name, I really can't understand it. I don't know how many new Minstar seats are expected in some new card section, you play cards here, I can't say you're gambling between yourselves, but you're gambling with the fate of the state. I call upon those MPs who know what this is about, not to be held back when the amendments are voted on. I don't think there are any abstentions on this law and no ones who haven't voted. I'd like to know who's in favour, and who's against, which is the political party for, which is against. We have a new election waiting for us, it would be nice if every political party, when represented in the territory of the Vojvodina, said - we were in favour of this law or we were against this law. I can't figure it out, it's about the fate of two million people or the fate of ten million people, that someone now, at this hour, can be held back. This abstention... (President: Five minutes and 30 seconds) It costs us. The abstentions here provide quorum, and I'd like the quorum to provide those who are in favor of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-31-0.u17163	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 47, against 92, with 27 abstentions, there was no vote of 8, a total of 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 51st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Tomislav Nikolic and MP Predrag Canovic. Representative, Government and Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. [[Glasses - pause.]] People's MP Tomislav Nikolic reporting for the Rules of Procedure or the Amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-31-0.u17164	No, I just want to ask when you're gonna take a break.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-31-0.u17165	The MP asked a question about lunchtime, since it was not specified whether it was at 14.00 or 14.30, and the Assembly was late to work, then to work for at least another 30 minutes and to set a break of one hour, according to the Rules of Procedure, and the Rules of Procedure were not determined at what time the break begins. So, at 2.30 p.m., let's start a break that will last until 3:30 p.m. There is a word from MP Predrag Canovic, the applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-31-0.u17166	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if you are a member of 51. The draft law laying down certain competences of the autonomous province will allow the autonomous province to organise, or form a directorate for the supply reserves for the territory of the autonomous province through its bodies. Therefore, it will allow the autonomous province to form a special, completely independent and autochtonic directorate for commodity reserves. The Serb Unity Party's parliamentary group considers Article 51. The bill should be completely deleted because, in our opinion, there is no rational reason why such special regulations should be established for the supply reserves for the territory of the Autonomous province, since we already know that there is a Stock Reserve Directorate operating on the level of the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia. In our opinion, this member of the bill's goal is not to decentralisation Serbia, as it is often said, but to disintegration and ultimately destabilise it. For this reason, we call on the Members of the People to accept this amendment, or to be a member of 51. The bill is deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-31-0.u17167	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? There is a word from MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-31-0.u17168	I note, Mrs. Comic, that by making one unreasonable decision and insisting that we are working on force for another half hour, you have produced a lack of quorum, and now it will be very difficult to explain that now because of the lack of quorum we will not continue to work. The electronic system already shows that there are only 120 MPs in the O.R. But here's to briefly explain the amendment, it's about stock reserves. Now, as the People's Proverbs says, "Where all the Turks are here and the bald Mujo" -- here's the stock reserve on the territory of the autonomous province. Why not, when everything went down the water. Here, we will now have not only municipal, which is reasonable, which is logical, commodity reserves, and not only republican, which is also reasonable, but we will now have the stock reserves of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina. Only more guards, even more lagers, even more employees, even more resources, even more officials, officials, but it is good that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, at least for this amendment, has said that it does not accept it and that it remains firmly there, unlike the previous one in which it said it does not accept, so we MPs in that material, in parentheses, have received two stupid words from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. He says it's controversial, check it out. Whom does the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in the light of its non-acceptance of the amendment, write - disputed, to check. That's where he writes to the amendment applicant to check it out, somehow. But the government is telling itself -- check out the government for what you're writing, and that's how it gets to the MPs, that they're doing something for God's sake. I think it's time we checked out this government. This government came from this assembly by a vast majority of the votes of the MPs. Now you're all unhappy with her. We're the only ones left working in the same positions -- the threads were good when you chose them, and they're not working today. But it's obvious that many of you have realized that this government is wrong and you're not going to support it with your presence in this room. By the way, ask them to come here, apologize to us for this year and a half of ruling over Serbia, to resign and to settle in the elections who's going to make up a new government. Don't be afraid for them. They do their jobs until a new government is elected. They won't lose their jobs, and even while they were in opposition, they didn't miss anything, believe me, I know it much better than all of you. So, you have to cancel these autonomous province stock reserves, except that it sounds nice for autonomists, it doesn't have any function, there's no basis. If in Belgrade someone worries that in the case of major natural disasters, long-term droughts, don't give God war, Serbian citizens have a diet, it takes care of each individual. You don't think that Serbia's stock reserves, now that there are Vojvodine stock reserves, will say -- e, we don't have to worry about Vojvodina anymore, we don't care if there's a drought in Vojvodina whether there's bread or not. So please accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-31-0.u17169	National MP Dragan Tomic, as representative of the parliamentary group, or? This is about an amendment to Article 51, submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic and Predrag Canovic. The lack of information for you is that you need to be in the O.R. when discussing the amendment. (Employer Dragan Tomic approaches the chairman and shows the material. ) You have submitted an amendment that will only come to order when we vote on this amendment. We're not discussing the amendment that you've submitted. The amendment we are discussing is "Article 51 is deleted". It was submitted in the same text by MPs Tomislav Nikolic and Predrag Canovic. You have submitted an amendment saying: "Article 51(2) is deleted. "These are two different amendments to the same member of the law. (Emissary Tomic returns to his post. I thank you. Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. I am concluding the vote and I find that the vote has not been reached by a sufficient number of MPs. Since we insist on taking a break, I'm setting a break by 3:30. I thank you, and I would like to inform you that the session of the Justice Committee will be held in a break, in an OR on the ground floor.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-31-0.u17170	I ask the MPs to insert identification cards into the MPs' units to determine the quorum and the continuation of the session. I find that we do not have a quorum, and on the basis of Article 95(2), I set a break until Monday, February 4th, at 10.00 a.m., to consult with members of the presidency and presidents of the parliamentary groups. Another announcement, the Justice and Management Committee will have a session now. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, today's session is attended by 151 MPs. Please, in order to determine the quorum, insert identification cards into MPs. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, we have a quorum and we can continue to work. I would like to inform you that they are prevented from attending the following MPs: Ratimir Svirčević, Dragan Jočić, Vladimir Dobrosavljevic, Branimir Trajkovic, Rodoljub Sabic, Momcilo Trajkovic, Radoslav Vesenović, only in the morning, and Milena Andrić and Vasilija Pavicevic. I am informing the National Assembly that they are invited to attend: the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia; the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislatory; Nenad Canak, President of the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina and Dr Predrag Filipov, Vice-President of the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, acting as the authorised representatives of the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, who has submitted a bill laying down certain competences of the Autonomous Province, whose consideration is under way. Also, according to members 83 and 84. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that I invited representatives of the People's Movement "Resistance", as well as representatives of the Association of Families of Kidnapped and Missing Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija to this session. Having obtained the conditions, I propose that we establish the mandate of the People's MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for a vacant parliamentary post, in order to enable him to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You have been presented with a report by the Republic Election Commission on the election of a MP to complete the vacant parliamentary seat at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Also, you were presented with a report by the Administrative Board, which found that conditions had been met for confirming the mandate of the MP, with a proposal that the National Assembly, as set out in Article 27(5), would be approved. The law on the election of MPs finds confirmation of the mandate of MP Dr Tomislav Jovanovic, elected from the election list of the Democratic Opposition of Serbia -- Dr Vojislav Kostunica. On the basis of the report of the Republic Election Commission, the report and the proposal of the Administrative Committee, as referred to in Article 27(5). The law on the election of MPs, I find confirmation of the mandate of MP Dr Tomislav Jovanovic. Congratulations to the People's MP on the election. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: - I remind you that the debate on the bill on the determination of certain competences of the autonomous province in particular was interrupted by the lack of quorum, which was found during the vote on the amendment to Article 51, which, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Tomislav Nikolic and Predrag Canovic. [[Applause]] I'm putting the amendments to article 51 to vote. The bill, which was submitted in the same text by MP Tomislav Nikolic and MP Predrag Canovic. For 40, against 97, with 27 abstentions, did not vote 7, a total of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 52 of the amendment. The proposing representative accepted this amendment, the Legislative Committee believes that the amendment is legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. (The Office of the Assembly warns that one amendment to a member has been skipped... ) The amendment to Article 51 has been skipped. National MP Dragan Tomic submitted to the 51st amendment. The proposing representative and the government have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does MP Dragan Tomic want a word? There's a word from MP Dragan Tomic.
