ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22133	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the Third Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, the session is attended by 130 MPs. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert identification cards into the parliamentary units. I find that using the electronic system has established that we have a quorum to work with. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Mirko Rosic, Vlasimir Budimovic, Jelena Milenkovic-Orlić, Slobodan Pavlovic, Vladimir Garčević, Zaharija Trnavčević, Milorad Stanulov, Slobodanka Vasic and Ivan Andrić, and Milos Nesovic in the afternoon. I am informing the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the meetings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat; candidates for new members of the government. Also, according to members 83 and 84. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that I invited representatives of the Centre for Free Elections and Democracy, the People's Movement "Resist" and the National Democratic Institute to this session. I welcome the guests present. Vojislav Seselj, ask for a word in the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22134	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I may have misrepresented myself, because some DOS deputies are getting me -- that the Rules of Procedure has already been lifted, and then I have no right to answer. Well, if that's really true, I'd be right back in my place. If it isn't true, then I'd like to advertise the violation of several members of the Rules of Procedure which was valid until last session. First, the Rules of Procedure foresees measures for the distance of MPs from the session and procedure as it seems. So, the MP is moving away from the session only when all previous measures are made. It can only be removed immediately from the session if there is a physical attack or similar procedure that endangers physical or moral integrity. This is now debateable - if one MP gathers the president of the National Assembly, can a few of them who have found it together to be excluded. But MPs who were not even in the hall were excluded: Bozidar Vucurovic, who was in court all day, had some civil case; then Stevo Dragisic, who came to the beginning of the session and left, was not at all in the session. Ljubomir Kragovic, who sat still in the bench, was also excluded, could not move because his spine was sore. Those MPs have been disfellowshipped. It's a violation of the Rules of Procedure. It's not? Well, if it's not you, you're going to vote to find it isn't and you're just laughing, you think it can. You can, but the question is, how long can it take? Secondly, the Rules of Procedure, which you have changed several times and made extremely rigid, says that the exclusion measure lasts until the end of that session, or 20 days of the session (work) of the National Assembly. The National Assembly for all working days of the session, even on Saturdays and Sundays, can work as necessary, as they are held on Mondays by congregation committees, Fridays, etc. You prevented me from entering the last session, because you count in those 20 days only 20 days of assembly sessions, and today you have prevented all MPs of the Serbian Radical Party from entering the session. That is why this session is not regular, it is not legal, it is anti-business and I insist that the violation of the Rules of Procedure be established.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22135	Mr. Seselj, I don't think there's any damage to the Rules of Procedure from the members you've advertised. The assembly will not be declared after we have adopted a new Rules of Procedure. If you'd read it, you'd know it. It is decided by the Administrative Board, and I suggest you attend the meetings of the Administrative Board and explain it well again. You were presented with the minutes of the 2002 session of the Second Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia held on 4, 5, 6, 11, 12 and 13 June 2002. As more than 126 MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from the previous session. I would like to inform you that the review in the Management Board's Office found that none of the Members of the People's Committee delivered in writing an objection to the minutes of the previous session and I am voting on the minutes of the session of the Second Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002, held 4, 5, 6, 11, 12, and 13 June 2002. For 118, no one with abstentions voted 40 out of 158 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the session of the Second Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002, held 4, 5, 6, 11, 12, and 13 June 2002. (National MP Vojislav Seselj advertises the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22136	I have just received the consolidated text of the Rules of Procedure which you, meanwhile, have adopted. In time, I would have warned you not to do that if I had been able to attend the session. Since you've already done that, I'm warning you not to violate it now. There's a certain day here for a vote. In that day, all votes are held, including voting on the record. You cannot vote today, but on the same day you set out for the election of laws and other congregation decisions. No MPs have been informed that today is the day for the vote. Some might come today to vote, and since it's not voting day, they didn't want to come. You can't do that. You should cancel this vote on the minutes and report when you set a voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22137	There's no damage to the Rules of Procedure you advertised. Article 85. The Rules of Procedure of the Assembly say - before the agenda is established, the minutes of the previous session of the National Assembly are adopted, that I do not read any further. So there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. We had over 126, and I realized there was a required majority. You have accepted Goran Novakovic's resignation as Minister of Mining and Energy. In accordance with Article 202(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the resignation was notified to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. Does a member of the government, Goran Novakovic, want to explain his resignation? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22138	When Prime Minister Djindjic called me in 2002 to come and help here as much as I can, we agreed in principle to do so in a period of one year. So that period of a year expired in January of this year. I've talked to the Prime Minister a lot in the last few months about when I can practically resign; it was winter, it wasn't the right time and we didn't have the right man. Now we've found the right man to replace me, it's Mrs. Cory Widowsky, so I'm resigning.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22139	Thank you. I remind you, Article 202 is paragraph 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly envisioned that the National Assembly, at the first next session, concluded, without a search, that a member of the Government had resigned and had not decided on it. According to Article 202(4). Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly finds Goran Novakovic resigned as Minister of Mining and Energy in the government of the Republic of Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with a call from the Third Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002, which was convened at the request of a group of 97 MPs of the DOS Group, pursuant to Article 79(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 162. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have been submitted to you for the maintenance of the Third Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002, with the agenda set out in that request. As you could see, for the Third Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002, the following Dn e n i d 1 was identified. Proposal for a selection of a number of members of the Government, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia; 2. Proposal for a President of the Republic of Serbia to elect a President and Judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia; 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2002, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia; 4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Financial transaction Tax Act, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia; 5. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Private Entrepreneurs, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia; 6. A proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the parliamentary group of the Democratic Opposition of Serbia. Please, the president of the DOS parliamentary group, Mr Cedomir Jovanovic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22140	Mrs. Micic, the Honorable Presidency, honourable members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in accordance with Article 136, I propose we conduct a joint principle search on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2002 and on the draft law amending and supplementing the Financial transaction tax law. In both cases, Mr Djelic is the promoter of the Ministry of Finance, and I think it would contribute to our more efficient work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22141	Thank you. I am voting on a proposal to merge the debate on the 3rd and 4th agenda - on the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia and the Financial transaction Tax Act. For 120, against 39, a abstentioned one, three of the 163 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided to conduct a joint principle search on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2002 and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Tax on Financial transactions. According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go, MP Zarko Obradovic, president of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22142	Dear Presidency, fellow MPs, since a proposal has been adopted to discuss the two points together, I propose on behalf of the parliamentary group that the total time for these two points be doubled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22143	I am putting on the vote by MP Zarko Obradovic to increase the total time for these two points for which we have merged the debate to 10 hours. For 40, against 117 abstentions, there was no vote of five, out of 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not decided to extend the debate on these two points of the agenda. I remind you, Article 79 is Section 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia envisions "the National Assembly meeting in an extraordinary session at the request of at least a third of the total number of MPs or at the request of the Government, with an advanced agenda", so that no changes to the agenda proposed for an extraordinary session can be made. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: - A PROPOSAL FOR THE CHOICE OF A MANY MEMBER STATES OF THE GOVERNMENT You have been presented with a proposal from the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia to select a number of members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Does the Prime Minister, Dr Zoran Djindjic, want to explain the proposal? Yeah. ) There is a word from the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Dr Zoran Djindjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22144	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this proposal to elect a number of members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is actually about three types of elections - for the Deputy Prime Minister, for ministers in newly established ministries and ministers in the ministries that exist earlier. For Deputy Prime Minister, I propose Mr. Miodrag Isakov, who was born on 20 March 1950 in Zemun; he graduated from the Faculty of Philosophy at the University of Novi Sad and mastered the same university in 1980. In line with the concept and organisation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which I presented in the election of the Government of the Republic of Serbia a year and a little more days ago, and on the basis of election results where DOS as an electoral coalition won most, the presidents of the parties in the DOS have the opportunity to be vice-presidents of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. This proposal actually creates the possibility available to all the presidents of these parties, and thus Mr. Mile Isakov, as president of one of the DOS coalition parties, is proposed as vice-president of the Republic of Serbia. For a long time, the government of the Republic of Serbia has no health minister and today I propose Mr Tomica Milosavljevic as Minister of Health of the Republic of Serbia. Tomica Milosavljevic was born in 1955 in Krusevec; in 1979 he graduated from the Faculty of Medicine in Belgrade, with an average score of 9.26, and in 1988 he became a doctor of medical science; he was married to the father of three children. You have other data in the materials that are divided before this session, and regarding this agenda point. The place of Minister for Mining and Energy has also been vacant. For the Minister of Mining and Energy, I propose Kori Udovicki, who was born on 4 December 1961; she graduated from the Faculty of Economics in Belgrade in June 1984; she was in various jobs dealing primarily with the economy, finance, public enterprises, restructuring of the economy in transition, and from November 2000 to mid-2001 she was the main economist for Yugoslavia in the arrangement of stand by arrangements with the International Monetary Fund. She was also the main economist of the International Monetary Fund for Bosnia and Herzegovina and has had a lot of experience in restructuring public enterprises that are unreally organised. Since Serbia's energy has several such public enterprises, I think its experiences can help us with this job, of course in co-operation with other ministries. She's married and the mother is three children. We also have two new ministries that this assembly voted - and the proposal is, on the basis of the powers set out in Article 91(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the government gave the Assembly -- these are the Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government and the Ministry for the Protection of Natural Resources and the Environment. These two ministries are also very important for the functioning of the political, economic and social system in our country, as well as for this moment in which our country is located. In fact, we are in the first phase of state administration reform, as an important instrument of the modern European state, and the reform of the state administration involves a whole range of operations, including professional training of public authorities, monitoring the human needs of state authorities, restructuring of state administration in relation to the restructuring of federal state administration and public services. It's all one job requiring a new ministry. Given this process of reorganising and reforming the federal state and the need for the modernisation of our other social and economic systems to be monitored by a modern state administration, we proposed that a special ministry be formed a while ago. The description of his competences includes one part and what I have now read, as well as the improvement of the system of local self-government, territorial autonomy, the concept of the territorial organisation of the Republic of Serbia, the improvement of municipal activity, and all regarding our decision to decentralisation the government in the Republic of Serbia and the effective local self-government, as the necessary element of a democratic, well-organised state. So this ministry should be one of the drivers of reform in this sector. For him, I propose Rodoljub Sabic, who was born in 1955; he graduated from the Faculty of Law in Belgrade in 1971; he is now vice president of the National Assembly; he is also married to the father of a child. The next ministry that has been educated, in accordance with the law already mentioned, is the Ministry for the Protection of Natural Resources and the Environment. In June 2001, however, we promised to form the ministry, but then it turned out that its competences were not clearly defined by the existing Law on the Protection of the Environment, so the preparation, harmonisation of the law and its harmonisation with European legislation were spent several months. The Serbian Parliament and the Serbian Government now have, on the basis of regulations and laws that have been passed in the meantime, a clear definition of one ministry's competence, which would not only measure the degree of environmental pollution, but would also take into account basic natural resources, their rational use, the setting of effective responsibility for those who pollute the environment and the creation of an integrated environmental protection system, which will be a condition for harmonising our rules with European Union standards. In order to be able to appear on the European Union market, we need to meet certain standards of environmental protection, which come from standardisation of these different types of inspections and measurements, so that some chemicals, some of the funds used in agriculture, in the water industry and in some of our other branches, are standardised by their quality and environmental impact with the funds used in the European Union. That's why we need a special ministry with very broad powers, as you've established by adopting the Law of the Ministry. For the minister of protection of natural resources and the environment, I propose to Mrs. Angelka Mihajlov, who has done the job so far within the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Serbia; she has otherwise done a large part of the preparation and has a wide activity behind her, practically acting as a minister within the Ministry of Health. She was born in 1951 in Dolovo, graduated from the University of Technology and Metalry in Belgrade, where she mastered the school in 1977, and in 1984 a doctorate in the field of chemical engineering thermodynamics. You have other information about her involvement in the profession in materials, and yet to indicate that her mother is two children. I propose to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to accept and vote the proposals for the election of Milet Isakov as Vice-President of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Tomica Milosavljevic as Minister of Health, Mr Rodoljub Sabic as Minister for State Administration and Local Self-Government, Ms Angelka Mihajlov for Minister for the Protection of Natural Resources and Environment and Mrs Kori Udovicki for Minister of Mining and Energy.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22145	I would like to thank the Prime Minister and remind you that, in accordance with Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, shall be five hours, and this time shall be allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the Parliament group. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to file an application for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 186(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening an investigation into the Prime Minister's proposal to elect a number of members of the government. Do the presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, want the word? The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic, president of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22146	Dear Presidency, fellow MPs, Prime Minister, members of the government, the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia today discusses a proposal to elect a number of members of the government, which the government itself has submitted. So, the Serbian government is proposing certain changes in its composition, the first after 16 months since it was established. Let me ask a few questions on behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group and give a few answers. First question - who is proposed for the new members of the government, which resolutions are it? Secondly, does with a proposal to select only a few people, the government estimates that everyone else has been doing their job successfully? The third question - will the proposed elections and the full composition of the government improve its work and will this work be in the interest of Serbian citizens? When it comes to the first question, I must say that the changes are small and extorted, that they literally mean the subsequent recognition and criticism that the Socialist Party of Serbia directed to the government during its constitution in January 2001. We have then criticised the solution that local self-government, an extremely important area for people's lives, will be transferred to the Ministry of Justice, with the claim that this will have a negative impact on the area of work of the Ministry of Justice and on the local self-government itself. The DOS representative then said that the Ministry of Local Self-Government was abolished, because it acted as if, quote "repressive and control authority", as it sought to prevent citizens from exercising their basic right, and this fundamental right is the right to decide on fate. What's happened in the last 16 months? The new, called Democratic Ministry took the fate of citizens into its own hands and suspended local self-government over the past 16 months, and thus the electoral will of citizens in more than 30 municipalities of Serbia. At the proposal of the mentioned ministry of justice and local self-government, the government disbanded local self-government units. The legal basis for disbanding so many municipalities was found in Article 213 of the previous Law on Local Self-Government, a member who had previously, and in the adoption of a new law, criticised it as a non-democratic and anachronous solution. So, when it comes to serving purposes, such solutions are also good. Essentially, the decision to disband municipalities' congregations was made by local DOS headquarters, in co-operation with the justice ministry and local self-government. Drastic examples of violations of the Law on Local Self-Government have many. I'll mention only a few here.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22147	Please, Mr. Radovic, get back on the agenda. It's the government's choice.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22148	Do we choose the Minister for Local Self-Government today?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22149	Yeah, but we're not passing a law on local...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22150	Who's talking about the law? I'm talking about the state of the local self-government and the obligations that stand. If you want to prevent any story about the government's work, it's one dimension, and I'm talking about local self-government here, and we're choosing the Minister for Local Self-Government today. What's the point of your remarks?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22151	It's a ministry that's just been formed and has not been elected a minister, and you're making remarks.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22152	It's a ministry that did a bad job, and that's why you decided to separate it. The camp on Lima - the municipality of the municipality was disbanded even though none of the conditions provided for by the Law to local self-government were met. No wonder these conditions did not exist, for the congregation regularly held sessions and functioned normally. Nevertheless, a forced administration was introduced, and new elections were not called. It's been months, and new elections for local self-government are still not being debated. It is clear, of course, why the new elections are not being debated; the confirmation of this is these additional local elections and results achieved by DOS and achieved by the Socialists over the past months, and last week in Pozarevec, Smederjevska Palanca, etc., and especially in Piroth. Another example of violations of the Law on Local Self-Government is the municipalities of Medvedja, Bujanovac and Presevo. The decision to disband these municipalities was also made on the basis of Article 213 of the old law, yet on February 28th. The decision, of course, is politically motivated and has nothing to do with the law, which is best confirmed by the fact that these municipalities have been disbanded four times, i.e. the decisions have been moved - first April 25th, then 17th, June 7th and finally the other day. The ministry did not respond to the numerous other illegalities that exist in the work of certain municipalities in which the assembly majority are members of DOS, as is the case with Kučev. Although illegal decisions are being made, which the Ministry is well aware of, it tolerates and does nothing. That the merger of two ministries, local self-government and justice, in one it would not be good, was seen immediately, and confirmed over the past period. A number of times, such a solution, the creation of a mutant ministry, has produced that several laws have come from the ministry, which have been withdrawn from the debate because of numerous criticisms, which have been made right here in the National Assembly, and have been brought back to work. Through a document on judicial reform, the ministry has made itself a direct commander to the judiciary and has shown how it feels about the principles of independence and independence of the judiciary. As with local self-government and environmental issues, information, work, the government has admitted its mistakes, and this is seen through today's proposal, that is, amending the law that regulates the issue. However, in environmental science, this error has been fully recognized, and only partially informed. Next - does the proposed selection of a few people mean that everyone else in the government did a good job? According to the government, yes, and we socialists certainly don't. The government of the Republic of Serbia did not have the courage to resign as a result of the overall poor results of its work, nor to change individuals who have worked badly. The policies and interests of the DOS also took precedence over the profession and needs of Serbian citizens. In addition to the Minister of Justice, I think too much of the work and responsibility of the police minister. The general security of citizens is getting worse, except, of course, in statistical indicators. The number of unexplained murders is increasing. Last year there were 13 of them, and now that number is even bigger. There are many promises and few concrete results.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22153	Once again, I ask you to return to the agenda, Mr. Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22154	Isn't this the agenda?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22155	It's not the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22156	And what's the agenda?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22157	I estimate you're not sticking to the agenda theme.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22158	Do you think that assessment is appropriate?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22159	Yes, it is. You don't have anyone else now, except me who's gonna...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22160	Please, I'm talking about work...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22161	I ask you not to argue, but to stick to the topic of the agenda, which is the choice of members of the government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22162	Of course. Yeah. The question is why today has not been changed and the Minister for Business and Privatisation Affairs. No one in the government of the Republic of Serbia deals with this area, especially with the issue of economy. The situation in Serbia's economy is very bad, it can be said almost disastrously. Industrial production is gone, 800,000 people are unemployed, exports have not reached last year's level, more than 23,000 proposals have been submitted to launch bankruptcy proceedings, which means the open question of fate is another 235,000 people. What does the Ministry do about it, and why hasn't the minister changed? Perhaps the poor work of other ministries mentioned also stems from the fact that their work is co-ordinated by the vice president. Here, today we'll pick another one. On the other hand, during the 2000 elections, DOS said there would be no more than three vice presidents, and now, what, six or seven? More importantly, political needs within the DOS are obviously more important, which have priority over the need for effective and professional work of the Government. Dear colleagues, we end up answering the third question - will the proposed changes improve the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia? We socialists are absolutely convinced that there will be no improvement with the proposed changes. It's not about personal solutions, it's about the concept of government work. When a government, as is ours, only 16 months after its constitution, proposes changes, then means that it has no concept of work, that it can't necessarily propose anything new, that the changes are part of cosmetics and in fact means the following: 1. that the Serbian government neither had, nor now has a clear concept, and that it has become obviously a prisoner of party divisions and needs within DOS;2. that certain very bad solutions to the formation and operation of individual ministries are still retained; 3. that the government has no intention of making staff changes at the head of ministries that have proved to be bad in the past 16 months; 4. that they can't expect any positive changes to the best in the Republic of Serbia. Socialists cannot support these solutions and the concept that has led the state of Serbia to ruin. Serbia needs new elections and a new government, not cosmetic changes that have turned out to be bad. That's why we can't support these changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22163	I thank the president of the SPS parliamentary group. The word has been given by MP Borislav Pelevic, an authorised representative of the Soviet Parliament group on this agenda point. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22164	Dear citizens of Serbia, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of Ministers, if there were political responsibility with the president and members of the government, they would resign today, instead of proposing the addition of members of the Serbian government. The resignation should be made primarily because no promise made to Serbian citizens during the 2000 pre-election campaign has been fulfilled. Only one promise has been fulfilled, which is the opening of Serbia and Yugoslavia to the world, but what the citizens of Serbia have received -- indeed no one feels it, either in businesses or in institutions or in Serbian households. It's been promised a lot of things. Nothing's been filled. It has been said that within 100 days, the Constitution will be amended, a law on the military and police will be passed, a law on public information, that anti-corruption laws will be passed; much has been promised, and above all, that reform laws will be passed. Only two reform laws have been passed, but I call them. reform laws, which are the Labour Act and the Privatisation Act, which will cause the dismissal of several thousand more people, the extra labour force in Serbia. Therefore, none since the adoption of the two laws, which cannot even be called reform, will be for the citizens of Serbia. There's also been a promise of a lot of things. The prime minister said that in a year we will have salaries at the Central European level. None of that came true. As it is known to Serbian citizens, the economy remains in collapse. Best companies, profitable businesses are sold, foreign capital is not brought into very difficult companies. These companies are obviously not interested in the Serbian government. The state of health is catastrophic and our health is on the African level. The state of education is no better without talking about agriculture. There was talk of an expert government, and we have a minister of agriculture professors at the Faculty of Political Sciences. Therefore, it is not an expert on agriculture and we cannot expect any contribution from it in the development of agriculture. Agricultural producers still cheat like they did in the former regime. One purchase price of the product is promised, and a lower price is given in several wars. The government of Serbia has also been promised to decentralise its state apparatus, including up to three vice-presidents. We have seven vice presidents, and four vice presidents are having an affair during this government. These are: Mr. Jožef Kasa (an affair with extraprofit), Mr. Vuk Obradović (set up or uninstalled affair, however), Momcilo Perisic (spy affair, proven), who is still sitting in the DOS presidency, and Deputy Prime Minister Dusan Mihajlović (also with extraprofit, with his "Lutra" who has disappeared from the list of extraprofits in a voluntary way). Instead of dealing with the problems of discovery of murders, kidnappings that are a new phenomenon in our society, the police minister buys new "pejoe"; instead of providing apartments for 7,100 unoccupied police officers who are tenants, for 14,000 police officers who have an inadequately resolved housing issue, he unearths still mass graves of Albanians and thus gives evidence to Carly Del Ponte and all others who want to impose an epithet of genocide on Serbia and the Serbian people. That's why...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22165	Mr. Pelevic, please return to the agenda. You have a concrete motion for a decision to select a number of members of the government, and there is no minister of police, as far as I can see, and I ask you to return to the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22166	Thank you, Madam Chairman, but I'm just talking about the government's effects so far and...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22167	That's not the point.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22168	... and that we will achieve nothing by making sure that this assembly today is able to co-opt new members of the government. That won't change anything. Gentlemen of the government, Mr. Prime Minister, keep your promise to the citizens of Serbia in the election campaign. Call the election at all levels after a year and a half. Take off your back the burden you've taken and that you can't stand. Please resign and allow the elections to be discussed at all levels. Let Serbian citizens decide who they trust. You made that promise to the citizens of Serbia, and you failed to keep that promise. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22169	The word is made by MP Vojislav Seselj, president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22170	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's clear to me that you're so irritated and that you're thrilled, because you have many reasons to celebrate, because your government has been so successful that the people are loathing their anger and their hair at every turn -- what would it be to show you confidence in the election. But the people show you once, and the second time they show no trust, and that is how these things are done. I'd like to talk about a concrete proposal with two aspects. First, from formal law. You don't seem to have any serious lawyers in the Serbian government and there is no one to give you timely advice when you join the initiatives to schedule extraordinary sessions of the National Assembly. Since the constitution provides for two options for the appointment of an extraordinary session of the National Assembly, on a proposal from the government or on a proposal from one-third of the MPs, last time, when such a topic was on the agenda that it was meant that only the MPs could submit the initiative - the adoption of amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure, the resolution of the old and the formation of the new Republic Election Commission - as the initiator of the extraordinary session, the Serbian government appeared. You don't all have to be lawyers, you don't have to know these things, but that's why you need to have capable services that will give you timely advice. Whoever advised you to do this, or wanted you to sin on purpose about the Constitution and the principle of division of power, which is a fundamental democratic principle, or has no idea about it, so he let you go on forever. Serbian parliamentaryism will note that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly has been changed at a session called at the government's request, that a session was called at the government's request to amend the Republic Election Commission, etc. Today you're doing something quite the opposite. It is not the government that proposes the election of ministers, but the prime minister, or Prime Minister. This is an act of government reconstruction. Here, instead of the government showing up as an initiator for calling for an emergency session, 84 MPs appear. You've done the opposite here, wrong again, because here the government was supposed to be initiating an emergency session, and I'm the prime minister. Ministers are resolved or elected on a proposal from the Prime Minister, not on a proposal from the government. Of course, in other cases, he can come up with a proposal from the MPs, but that's not the point here. Here, the government itself was supposed to be a caller for an emergency session, and it should have been a little more serious to formulate this agenda point. Be careful how it is formulated -- a proposal to elect a number of government members, who have been submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. First, you lack a language expert here: a proposal to select a number of members of the government; it reminds me of the darkest communist times, when language experts were not at all at the price, but were created so-called. new speech, Orvelski novost - a proposal to elect a number of members of the government. Can any of the people you may have among you, who are language experts, accept something like this, please? Sure, especially you're a language expert, and I'm sure with you. [[Dropping out of the O.R.]] This is where it was supposed to stand - a proposal for the reconstruction of the Serbian government. The proposal is represented by the Prime Minister, not by the government as a whole, but by an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, which refers to the government's demands in general. We've now established that the government doesn't have a good lawyer. I don't know who the secretary of law was. I haven't been to this assembly in a while. What's his name? You may not have an expert secretary for legislation, but there are other qualities you appreciated and based on these qualities he came to the post, but then you're looking for someone to be your legal advisor, hire a lawyer's office or something like that. Of course, there are many reasons not only for the government's reconstruction, but for the shift and election of the new government. It's just a partial reconstruction that doesn't change things. This is where we heard the resignation of Minister Novakovic. I immediately ask the question: was Minister Novakovic truthfully giving reasons for his resignation, because I have never heard of him being a minister for a year, so the minister with a reduced mandate, but I heard that there was a conflict between the government itself over his work and his ministry. That's what the press under your control wrote about: oil, gas, gas arrangements, etc. That was a matter to discuss. If you're not willing to discuss it, if it's easier for the minister to resign himself, and that's your right, but don't expect to convince the public of the reasons that have been officially stated here. Here you are going into a reconstruction of the adhesion, which essentially represents nothing. I only have something that will be difficult for you to explain to the citizens of Serbia. When you formed this government, you changed the Government Act and boasted that you significantly reduced the number of government members, and then gradually increased them. You boasted when you abolished the Ministry of Ecology. It took you a year to realize that it was a very important ministry and that without it, the government could not perform an important part of constitutional jurisdiction. So you didn't know, you just found out, you figured out and you're correcting a mistake. It's commendable. Whoever realizes the mistake after any time, so publicly admits it, should be commended. I now commend the Prime Minister, Zoran Djindjic, for realizing this mistake and reopening the ecological resources. Don't brag in the daily press that it's the first time in Serbia, because Serbia had it before, until you have abolished it. There are some individuals here that I can say a lot of things about. I don't want to talk much, I'll just say a little bit. My dear Isaac, Deputy Prime Minister. For what reason? I will not enter into his ideological and political orientation at all; it is generally known and is not particularly important to me, but it should answer the question why the number of Deputy Prime Ministers is increasing. That's the essential question. Whether he will have some special duties in the government that he will perform and whether he is particularly competent for these duties or only a political settlement within the DOS, the ruling coalition, is one of the elements of that political bargain to get Isaac into the government. As for Rodoljub Sabic, I cannot dispute him personally, because he is probably more capable than many ministers who have been in the government long ago, personally. However, this raises the question of the legality or legitimacy of his election in the government, if he gets 126 votes, no one can dispute it, but the question of the legality of his remains in the National Assembly is being raised, since the Supreme Court has twice ruled that the entire political party Vuk Obradovic -- the Social Democracy -- and under strange circumstances, there has been an unification of that Social Democracy, a secluded wing, with the Social Democratic Union. They now appear under a new name - the Social Democratic Party, although the second Social Democratic Party was formed ten years ago. Now there are two parties with an entirely identical name. That at the Justice Department, when they registered, they had to take care of it. The Department of Justice must, under official duty, control whether there is already a party with such an identical name, so as to draw attention to the registration of a new one, that it cannot by that name, but must change something, at least one word added. As for your reaction to the Supreme Court's verdict, it is an inappropriate role of the executive authority in the constitutional system of division of power. So, from the point of view of the existence of this fundamental principle of division of power. But that doesn't seem to matter much to you either. With this new minister, Udovici, there are things to praise, she is a naturalised Serb, or Yugoslav, as it is stated, it is commendable. However, there are things in her biography that are not commendable. She was on certain duties, but the biography doesn't say who her employer was, whether the IMF, the World Bank or anyone else. There's only her official title here. So she was an economist for Zimbabwe. What does an economist mean for Zimbabwe, where, in which institution? She wasn't a member of the Zimbabwean government. I checked it out this morning. I checked it out.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22171	Mr. Seselj, I'm asking if you'll be using for the next 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22172	Yeah, all 20 minutes. Then, she was the second desk economist for Mozambique. Let's find the register of our professions now. There's a register of occupations in Serbia, let's see where that interest is -- the second desk economist? There's no such thing as a desk economist, we haven't had that yet. Desk means on the English board or board, etc., which would mean in Serbian -- an economist for a board or an economist from a board. I don't know how else to translate, maybe I don't know English well, but there's an English expert among you who might translate it. Next, she interned in her own time, from 1994 to 1995, as part of a programme for economists, on the Mozambique team, in the African suit. What's the African suit; is the UN, the NATO Pact, the EU, the IMF, the World Bank, what? It's missing, it needs to be completed, at the very least. Since it was successful in Zimbabwe, Mozambique, it shows the situation in those countries; they still moan there and say -- thank you, just let it go as far away as possible. Of course, we've had experience with Bozidar Djelic and his co-operation with Chubis in Russia, the whole of Russia is familiar with it, everyone knows who Cubace is, everyone now knows, unfortunately, and who Djelic is. He was better off until the people of this country knew, now everyone knows. I have nothing against Kori Udovici, I personally do not know her, for the first time in my life I see her and speak only on the basis of this data, which the Serbian government has provided us, so there will be no confusion. As for Tomica Milosavljevic and Angelka Mihajlov, there is nothing concrete I could say, which would challenge their personal properties, for the simple reason I don't know. But the question is immediately raised here -- what was the government of Zoran Djindjic waiting for a year with a proposal to elect a new health minister? The former health minister resigned about a year ago, perhaps more. For a year, Serbia did not have a health minister, and apparently it did not have a health care. The health situation in Serbia has not been good before. She was bad, and there were many affairs in the health sphere. It's obviously fun for you, and maybe someday it'll be fun for me, too, but only when you're out of here. As long as it takes, we'll see. Just have fun. There's been a lot of health affairs before. We remember Nenad Djordjevic's affair, we remember the Leposava Milicevic affair, etc., and then at one point Serbia was left without a minister and a year the government did not need a health minister. This is where the question arises - who managed health during that year? Neither is the deputy, but the president of the Republic Health Insurance Fund, or the director, as it is called, doesn't matter; it doesn't matter exactly what his function is called, but it matters that he is the brother of Goran Vesic; it is very important. All new health affairs and strobing in Serbia's health care level are related to this personality. Will the new minister be able to at least partially correct the situation, we remain to see, but now a new question is being raised - why did the Prime Minister go to such a narrow reconstruction of the government? Does this mean that all other ministers are doing their duty well, whether they feel that there are no other serious problems in the government and that some of the resolutions are not ready, or not mature for reconstruction, for a personal change in their leadership, so that it will help the Prime Minister a little bit, to go in line with the resolutions. Since the communist period, Serbia has not remembered the situation in which the justice minister has placed himself in the role of head of the judicial sphere of power and no one can explain to him that he is not superior to the judges, that he can't step in with the camera to control whether the judges are in the workplace, can't declare the day of the judiciary and that he attacks the presidents of the court for not coming to the ceremony he organised. Who can declare the day of justice in Serbia -- the National Assembly can by law or by the highest judicial authority. The highest court cases in our country are parallel to the Constitutional and Supreme Court. You're not in charge of each other's courts, but you can't have a minister of justice.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22173	Mr. Seselj, please, you're a little off topic to get back on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22174	I haven't gone far, it's about the government's reconstruction, I'm asking the Prime Minister a question which didn't go much wider and further into that reconstruction. Furthermore, in that government we have ministers who advocate retroactive tax laws, and these laws have been passed; we have a minister of religion who allowed himself in some vengeful hoax to fire his ministry, to fire even pregnant women, or women on maternity leave, and that's the case we have, so the court has returned that woman to her post. We have in this government the Minister of Science, who is asking for historical topics for reviews in Italy, and they return to it by declaring our greatest historians, our greatest intellectuals from that area, the minority to the Nazis. We have such a minister of science. We have a whole series of other ministers; we have a Minister of Construction, Shumarca, who in Serbia has only torn down, who has tasked himself with the collapse of hundreds of thousands of buildings around Serbia, and these objects are collapsing. We have a minister for work -- as he smiles, I'm going to mention him -- who's a favorite in the working class as a union leader has become a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22175	Mr. Seselj, for the second time, I'm warning you to get back on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22176	And what's the agenda theme, tell me?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22177	It is a concrete proposal and a selection of a number of members of the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22178	Please, for this particular election, I ask the question -- why have some ministers not been changed yet, is that not allowed from the point of view of the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22179	There are other ways to ask that.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22180	What's the other way?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22181	We don't want to argue, you know, please stick to the subject of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22182	I stick to the agenda, the topic of the agenda is the reconstruction of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and I am talking about the shortcomings in this proposal for reconstruction. Here, only five new figures are being introduced into the government, trying to prove to the Prime Minister that much more than five were to be changed; it could have asked the Minister of Traffic, the way licenses are granted, or concessions to repair roads in Serbia, to pave the way for roads, etc., could anyone who has never done that job in a magical way to get to construction machines, to get that job in competition with a huge number of our companies, who have done it for decades and have been celebrated doing such jobs in the Arab world, in Africa, etc. Is there anything weird about that? Was that the reason that the minister changed? Is there any reason to change the minister of privatisation? I thought it was missing in some strange way only 30 million marks from the sale of Beech's cement shop. I had a television duel with Nenado Canka and he convinced me on the show that 50 million marks were missing, that there was such a difference between the previously agreed price and the price at which the transfer was made. So let's see, you know, Nenad Canak isn't anyone, he's one of the key figures of your coalition, one of the pillars of your coalition, so let's discuss that question. When do we discuss it, if we don't do it today? Let's see how the Home Secretary would explain why so far none of these spectacular murders have been enlightened, and so many new ones have happened, to which there is no answer. You know, a police general was killed again. I've never had a good opinion of this man, but I'm sorry in the event of anyone's death, regardless of any good or bad, no one deserves to be liquidated in that way.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22183	Mr. Seselj, time and theme, please complete the exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22184	Here, just one more sentence, if you're gonna be a little bit tolerated, considering they've been breaking into my word, and you've interrupted me, too.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22185	Since you didn't stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22186	Would you allow me?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22187	I won't let you, don't, you have the right to speak. Do the presidents or representatives of other parliamentary groups want the word? Please, the word is Predrag Stojanovic, president of the Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22188	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Madam President, Prime Minister, Mr Minister, dear guests, MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia in a partial reconstruction of the Government of the Republic of Serbia see a positive process in an effort to speed up reforms needed by Serbian civil society. No, of course, to the Yugoslav society, who is obviously no longer there, in our view of things, we are already thinking about reforms that would welcome the independent state of Serbia. That's why we'll support the government's reconstruction with our votes. Minuciously dealing with the political theory suggests that the government's reconstructions are desirable and welcome if they are directed towards reform objectives and if they increase the transparency of the executive government. We demochrists believe that both conditions are fulfilled in this case. It is known from the experience of countries that have completed the transition process, from the experience of traditionally well-organised states, that it is possible to organise small-scale governments by the number of ministers and ministries only when reforms in society are completed. Until then, on the principle that more eyes are better seen, the executive power should be organised so that all social segments that are subject to reforms are located in the jurisdiction of individual ministries, and what has to be reformed behind Marjanovic and the past governments of Milosevic's regime is a small matter compared to Augi's stables. This is for the demochrists more reason to assess the government's work so far positive, with confidence that it will be even better. It is perfectly normal, for example, that after the adoption of the Law on Local Self-Government, the current Ministry of Justice and local self-government is divided into two ministries. This corresponds to the principle of power-sharing on executive, legislative and judicial, and proves that the declared decentralisation of Serbia, as one of the cornerstones of the DOS programme, is not an empty letter on paper and cannot be an empty story, so that demochrists like this and that Serbia lies at heart sooner. The democratic party is confident that the reconstruction, according to both organisational and offered human resources, will contribute to the efficiency of the Serbian government's work. That's why we call on reformers to support this proposal on reconstruction, and national romantics to finally consider what kind of Serbia they want - in the 19th or 21st centuries? For the Democratic Party of Serbia, 21st century and independence are the only possible choice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22189	Do any of the presidents, or representatives of other parliamentary groups, want the word? No, I don't. ) We continue to work towards the application for a word in the principle debate. The word has been issued by MP Dragan Rafaelovic, a parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Serbia. The next reported MP is Dragan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22190	The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Prime Minister, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs and honored guests, so as not to repeat what has been said, since it has happened that two representatives of the Democratic Party speak after each other, I will refer only to what is very important, quality and good solution in the reconstruction of the Government at this point. It's the introduction of the Ministry of Environmental Protection. It is known that in the last decade of the 20th century, Serbia has been polluted from all sides and in different ways. At this point, I'd only hold on to those things that concern this ministry. The problems of Novi Sad, Pancheva, Kragujevac, Bora, which are black dots on Serbia's ecological map and, of course, Obrenovac, which is not presently on the map as a black spot, but is such a black ecological situation in Obrenovac that a nigger cannot be. So these cities and their problems require one such ministry. Let's not talk about poaching, fishing, the problem of transporting dangerous substances, which is not all regulated by laws that solve these problems. And most importantly, we also come up with a personal solution in Mrs. Mihajlov, which is absolutely so far, as director of the Directorate or the Administration, has shown that she knows the job, that she is professional, that she loves and is very approachable in doing her job. Since we have very little time, I would look back, and I would refer to Mr. Prime Minister as a problem, to a vulnerable population in Serbia, which is not in this ministry's portfolio, which is peasants. At this point in Serbia, old people work in the fields, young people have very little. I'm saying this because in the coming days and months we'd put government priorities in order to do a long-term program that could be pretty easy to solve. As regards the reconstruction itself, I would like to point out that the Ministry of Agriculture is the Ministry of Agriculture, but it has farmers in its scope and the Minister of Agriculture must be the Minister of Peasants. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22191	The word has a folk MP Dragan Markovic, and the next friendly is Bora Novakovic, the DOS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22192	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the ministers, I listened to the speech of the Prime Minister and as a businessman, as a private entrepreneur for 20 years, I expected Mr Zoran Djindjic to say what these candidates would do, or future ministers. I don't think it was enough to say just what years they were born and what they've been doing lately. I also expected another minister to resign today to save agricultural producers, and this is Mr. Vesenov. Congratulations to Mr. Novakovic, who resigned because he could no longer defend the increase in electricity prices and that citizens have no place to pay. I expected the Minister of Agriculture to resign and to be helped by Minister Djelic, as he said there was no request from the agriculture minister, because inflation was 40% in 2001 and the price of grain was 9.80 this year. Last year, the price of grain was seven dinars and was not paid to anyone at that price. No, no one's been paid, be sure. Next, you said in advance there wouldn't be a first class. Where did you see that, Mr. Minister? You see how white your face is, you didn't go to the field, so if the sun caught you, you could come to the conclusion that it was first or second class. Who told you that? Next, five days before they do... But here, Mr Batic says his face is black and dark. It must have been you who went to the fields. Where is it, Mr. Minister, that you in advance, 20 days before harvest, you know it won't be first class? Mr. Prime Minister, since the minister has little understanding of agriculture, please let him hear what I'm going to ask him; he doesn't know it anyway, ever since you're confusing him, he won't know what to say to me. Why didn't you do it, Mr. Minister? Furthermore, you said you provided tractors for peasants on loan - 539, interest comes out at an annual level of 850 marks. From where, Mr. Minister, peasants pay; if a peasant has 5 ha of land, he can't make only interest. Furthermore, Mr. Minister, these days you said 61 tractors arrived in Yugoslavia from Japan. You sold those tractors to farmers without interest, or agricultural goods. Why can't something be enough for those agricultural producers, if the state got that bad? The same case as 2001 -- so many mules and oil arrived in Yugoslavia, in Serbia, and the price of heating went 700, 800 times, even though we got it bad. Furthermore, Mr. Minister, he had a lot of work to do, Mr. Police Minister Mihajlovic for you because you came to Jagodin, and he sent the police to go to school and to control the students whether they weren't going to pull test 10, 8 or 7. What difference does it make, even if he gets away with it, if someone helps him, he needs to go to school for four years, or five years if it's college, or six years. So he needs to show his knowledge in the next five to six years. Instead of sending someone to watch what the Minister of Agriculture does, he does not get gifts in Jagodina (a carabin that costs 5,000 marks) and did not go out into the field to see the Minister’s peasants and to talk to them. Furthermore, I ask the Prime Minister why he is not taking the Minister of Agriculture to the villages, but rather leading the Minister of Culture. Take Mr. Veselinov to talk a little bit to people, to talk a little bit about war, about harvesting, about sowing, about how many liters of oil should be poured into a hectare; what is a heather, what is a lever, that must know the Minister of Agriculture, in order to know when the tractor breaks down how much the farmer needs to make money to fix that tractor. Mr. Prime Minister, I expected, if you didn't say that, that at least someone would come out and say if the future health minister would ask to stop firing and that we were still declared to have an extra doctor in hospitals, because we don't have an extra doctor, we don't have extra nurses. In hospitals it's a mess, they don't have what it takes to have every hospital, they don't even have work clothes. They have clothes that are five or six years old, and their salaries are very small so they can buy themselves new coats. These healthcare professionals are asking you to create working conditions for them, not to fire them from work; in the meantime, 12% of the extra labor force in health care and certain hospitals have agreed to cut them by 12% without their colleagues losing their jobs. So that's what I'm expecting, which is why we have a clear suspicion from the SS, and that's why we won't vote for your proposal, that this health minister is going to be looking at the hospital. Next, we expect that they'll demand that the participation be lifted; it is apparently 20 dinars, but when you go to one doctor, he charges you 20, you go to the other, you go to the X-rays, you go to the ultrasound, you go, God forbid, on the scanner, on the magnetic resonance, when you go to all these doctors, that goes somewhere around 30,000 dinars. I think that the health minister should do this and advocate that conditions are created. Also, I haven't heard, Mr. Prime Minister, what will the future Minister for Local Self-Government, Mr. Sabic, do in Serbia's cities? Whether it will only take the mandates of DS and DSS committees because it is fashion for you now, you are asking your council members to follow politics in Belgrade and government policy, it is very harmful when it is transferred to the inside, in the cities of Serbia. Is that all he's gonna do? And then he says, yes, it's by law and these people are moral, they just want to realize what they promised in 2000 and 1999. Whether the local self-government minister will provide apartments for Serbs from Cosmeta -- they have a big problem in Serbia's cities, in the Shumadian district, in the Pomorava County -- if not through the government, then local self-government can find a way. So that's not what you or he told us. Furthermore, you did not tell us whether the local self-government minister would make a social map for the cities in Serbia, since the government did not. A social ticket for pensioners, because a large number of pensioners go to certain organizations and ask for help, and local self-government helps as much as it can. Will the Minister of Local Self-Government help cities in Serbia? Also, whether the local self-government minister, since it is not done by the agriculture minister and does not work for the finance minister, will do something for the agricultural producers, those pensioners. For you, Mr. Prime Minister: people whose sole interest in agriculture is necessarily pension insurance pay 11,000 dinars a year, that means about 900 dinars a month; and those who are users receive 700 dinars, that means 8,400 per year. Where is 2,600 dinars, I ask Minister Djelic. I want you to answer me, why don't you at least cover up, if you take one, give it to the others, not put it in the register. I hope the future minister of local self-government... No, no, he pays more, and he gets less; I'm talking about an individual, in a masseuse, but the individual doesn't. Furthermore, I expect that the environment minister, who also didn't say his programme -- because we haven't had that ministry yet, is it, Prime Minister -- exits say the cities are ecologically endangered in Serbia. I'll only list two cities in Serbia, not to mention all the cities because I should talk for two days. There is a river in Jagodina called Lugomir. It is an ecological bomb where a minimum of 5,000 households have sick members because they use this water source is polluted and because the river blue Jagodina and ten villages around Jagodina. Every five years it floods the city and there's huge damage. I expect the minister of environmental protection to take care of it. Next, I expect, I don't know which lady it is, to come to Turkey; Prime Minister, Cupriya has no water; so the question is, why do Montenegrins drink more water in winter than they do in summer, so she says, they don't have summers. But they can't drink in winter because they don't have winter or summer. Please send someone to Turkey and solve this problem. I'm giving you a message from the citizens of Cupre, I don't want that to happen, but they're threatening to block the highway and it's going to be a big problem. You'd better figure it out, promise them in a month, in two, but say, it'll be 60 days from now, the citizens of Cupre, the water will come to your city -- that the citizens know they'll have a solution to that problem. I expect, ladies and gentlemen, that once the Minister of Agriculture comes out, to answer my question, because, you know, it's a great honor for peasants (not for me, I know you have nothing to say to me), to tell them what you've done so far, and why you haven't done what you have to do for them and when you're going to do. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22193	The word has the People's MP Bora Novakovic, the DOS parliamentary group, and the next reported for the word is MP Vojislav Seselj, the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22194	President-in-Office, the Honorable Prime Minister, members of the government, fellow MPs, I am convinced that after a certain period of time, when we retrospectively analyse everything we have done over the past two years, we will have a good reason and reason to label today's date as important and significant. This is the day that Serbia gets the Minister of State Administration and local self-government, so the portfolio that was practically in Mr Batic's portfolio by this day is shared. I think it's a very important date, because that's why the Republic government is sending a message to the public that it's even stronger to carry out decentralisation. For decentralisation in Serbia, we have historical reasons and historical reasons, because even at a time when the state of Serbia was not properly or constituted, we had a law on municipalities and a sort of process of decentralisation. Even in this context, even in the 19th century when we formed as a state, it was important that the community and all that were represented by local self - government. I think we've got a little bit of an understanding where centralism is a good and desirable form of integration of the state. Of course, every country, appropriate to its history, political culture, economic, regional, cultural, religious judgment, chooses the form of integration. I'm not inclined to declare centralism bad by myself, nor am I inclined to consider decentralisation desirable by itself. On the contrary, in certain times and centralism, it has proved to be a legitimate and good form of state integration, because, especially with us in Serbia, it has usually appeared historically as a financial cramp of a poor society and a poor state that is trying to centralise resources and material resources, and is later fairly deployed, when it comes to the whole territory. I think we left that period behind, or at least we leave it behind, and that Serbia as a state, but also a society in Serbia is ready and mature for decentralisation. decentralisation at this point is cheaper than centralization. At this point, it is much more rational and cheaper to transfer certain competences to the municipal and city level than to keep them at central state levels. So if we want to realize the concept of a cheap state, then we have to take care of what's cheaper and more rational to organize at a local level, and at this point there are a lot of such areas. If I wanted to be cynical, as mayor of Novi Sad, I could even say that cities and municipalities are fit by centralism, because he, by focusing certain powers on the republican and federal level, makes the republican and federal authorities responsible. On the contrary, I don't care about cynicism. I care about organising the state in the most rational, cheapest way and agreeing on everything that would harmonize different levels of government. First of all, I think it's very important at psychological level to carry out further decentralisation, because a centralist state makes an active decision centre, regardless of whether it's at a federal or a republican level. All other parts of the system, all other institutions in the centralist state, are the mere transmission of central state authorities, are completely inert, inactive and psychologically uninterested to participate in the political process. To make them interested, we must make them actors of this process, and to make them actors of this process must have certain competences and have certain sources of income based on which they can effectively solve problems in the area. What does centralised mean at the political level? It means sharing responsibility between the central and local authorities, and I think it's also important. The Law on Local Self-Government took three steps, which are very important, courageous. So, in the area of health care, primary health care is entrusted to cities and municipalities; it is also an ecology; and I think that these are the first shifts, of course with education, primary education, which address the need for even stronger decentralisation. Finally, the third argument, which I hope Mr. Sabic's portfolio will give its effects, is contained in the economic sphere. At this point, I don't think there's much interest in municipalities and cities to increase their assets. I think that the economic sphere should also do everything to make cities and municipalities more responsible and to be much more active when it comes to investors and investment, to be much more active when it comes to the way in which it will preserve and increase its property and also to be much more active when it comes to taxes, taxes, and when it comes to the possibility of forming, constituting and forming a micro-economy and economy at the level of municipalities and cities, which is not sufficiently expressed at the moment. Basically, the new Law on Local Self-Government, we only set a general legal framework for the decentralisation process. What Mr Batic called sectoral laws is coming to us. We are about to pass legislation on the capital, therefore, a law that should define that in the administrative, municipal and financial sense Belgrade will function. We have a law on cities to define the position of Nis, Novi Sad, Kragujevac, and I am confident that this law and other major regional centres will get the status of the city. We are expected to have a law on municipal activities and a whole set of sectoral laws, which will in a precise, detailed and segmentative way arrange how the city of Belgrade and cities and municipalities in Serbia will function. It is a great task in front of Mr Sabic, and I am convinced that the MPs will have a foothold, not only through amendments, but through useful advice and that we will do our best to decentralisation, when it comes to cities and municipalities, will be as successful as possible. I consider decentralisation entrusted to the municipalities and cities as primary and pregnant when it comes to decentralisation at all. In Serbia, of course, the issue of regionalisation will be raised and the issue should not be avoided. Most major and significant European countries are regional countries, but what is of the experience of these regional states applicable in Serbia and what can, in line with our political history, political culture and that kind of cultural, economic, territorial, ethnic and any other diversity of Serbia, be applied. It's already a very difficult political issue. As a sociologist and as a politician, I am prone to asymmetric regionalization, which had its own tradition most in Italy, so in the 1948 Constitution and in everything after that; but in which direction we should move depends on how we think we harmonize different levels of government. At this point, each taxpayer pays five levels of government: he pays the federal state, the republic, the province, the city and the municipality. If we don't have a precise analysis of how to harmonise all these different levels of government conduct and if decentralisation and regionalisation turn into a fight for intelligence and a fight for income, if it's a gladiatorial political struggle over where powers, political power and political resources will be placed, I think we'll make a big mistake and it won't lead us to good. Regionalism must not promote the egoism of parts. Regionalism is only good to the extent that parts of the system promote the degree of integration in general and in the state as a framework. So if regionalization were to lead some kind of unintegration-free separation, if it didn't lead to even stronger integration into the state -- the legal system, I think it would be bad. Is that shape possible? I believe it's possible. As mayor of Novi Sad and as someone who comes from Vojvodina, I believe that it is possible to express the specificity of a particular piece, and that the display of that specificity does not go at the expense of the whole. I believe that the economic autonomy of the Vojvodina is a desirable form, because it shows the specificity of the Vojvodina, but not by the way it would separate it from the continent, but by the way that it would further integrate it into Serbia's state-level legal tissue. All of these are open questions that I hope we can solve in the next year. Thank you for the attention you've been listening to me with.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22195	The People's MP Vojislav Seselj has the word, followed by MP Srdja Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22196	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will continue to ask questions to Serbian Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, not expecting him to answer those questions, of course, because there is simply an adequate answer he cannot provide. The amendments and additions to the Law on Government were abolished by the Ministry of Justice and local self-government and introduced by two ministries, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Administration and local self-government. Today, the state administration minister and local self-government are elected. Why isn't the Minister of Justice elected? Serbia now has no justice minister. What status is Vladan Batic there now? Is he there V.D. or the part relating to the Ministry of Justice is subject to the old law, and the new law applies only to the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government? There's no legal expert who can solve what you're tampering with. Whether it was simpler today -- I'm banging Milk, I'm banging, you're getting it, I don't mind it, I'm even really comfortable -- even today you could have chosen Batic again or someone else, but that problem to solve. It is not a problem that you do not choose the minister of justice today, the problem is that no one has thought of it, which no one has seen one ministry being abolished and two new ministries have been opened and two new ministers have to be elected. None of you have seen that. That speaks of your government's competence. Then, the government was obliged to report to the Assembly at least once a year, a report on its work, and in particular on policy-making, enforcement of laws, other regulations and general acts, on the implementation of the development plan and the spatial plan and on the implementation of the Republic's budget. That is how it is provided for in Article 213. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The government has not fulfilled that obligation. She's also bound by the Government Act on something like that. Why hasn't the government fulfilled its obligation? What's the government afraid of? What's the government hiding? What is it about the government that is uncertain in the debate, so it avoids such a commitment? Why is it tightening? What's the problem? We don't even expect a competent, professional, or serious report from you, we don't expect any of that from you. You could have brought a report like these legal projects, like this proposal for reconstruction, which is not professionally drawn up, etc. You're running away from the government at all. There's a question here why the Prime Minister didn't ask for a change in the Minister of Agriculture. Never in Serbia's history has a genocide of singing birds been committed during a year during a minister's time. More than half a million birds were killed for exporting to Italy. Which is the country in the world, so that at least the minister wouldn't fall when something like that happens. Now instead of singing to us the Nightingales, singing to us heels and similar birds, now singing to us ravens, frogs, panties, because the Minister of Agriculture didn't want to hunt them for an unknown reason. Why is all this happening within this government? What does the Prime Minister promise us by reconstructing the government? Does it promise to improve the overall political, economic and social opportunities in the country? Is this government reconstruction going to create conditions for the factories, which they've already lived like that, and for a year and a half, they're not working at all, they're getting a job and they're starting production? Will this reconstructed government now give up its plan to fire 700,000 workers? Whether this reconstructed government will take more seriously access to privatisation, avoid scandals about priced prices and whether this privatisation will be conducted according to the law, not in one way that is very close to criminal. Will this government finally fix the agricultural situation? You promised miracles to farmers, peasants, and you didn't keep any promises. The real price of buying agricultural products is much lower than it was before. Under your government there was a miracle unseen, it devalued the German mark. Some economic experts claim that this is precisely why the German brand was abolished. What was bought for 100 marks in 2000 under your government can't even be bought for 300, 400 marks. Will the election of a new energy minister mean a new increase in electricity prices in Serbia, or will you now go to lower prices? Does Serbia deserve the highest electricity price in Europe, so that 18% is more expensive than the most expensive in Europe; does Serbia deserve it? What does it mean to choose a new minister? Even higher prices of electricity to the sky or now some more moderate, lower prices. I guess the new minister has never even met what's waiting for him; he's completely out of it. Whether the new reconstructed government will now improve the social situation. Are the blankets still realistically lagging behind the salary level or will the old concept come back, where the pensions will follow the salary height? During this term of office, you have deliberately passed a law under which pensions no longer comply solely with salary levels, but are in line with your assessment of the cost of living. Where else do pensions come from? Will this reconstructed government be able to repair the social status of the most vulnerable categories of the population? You haven't fixed anything in the children's accessories, you've just ruined it. You've memorized people, and now they need about 20, 30, 40 documents to ever get the right they're legally prescribed. Will the social status of wartime military invalids and civilian war victims be improved? The Prime Minister has not offered any answer to that question, he has now made no promises. You've promised so much before. In 2000, you promised wonders in a pre-election campaign. Now you've stopped making promises for a year. You don't promise anything now, you don't think there's any need anymore. You have shown that you do not keep any promises and why you should continue to promise. The people must get used to you, the people must suffer you, the people must pretend to be happy that such a government is his, and thus all the problems end. Is the government in this situation ready to solve a single economic or social problem? Is this government, now that it's been reconstructed or will it be reconstructed in a few hours, able to deal with crime? Will the government be able, through the police department's competent department, to resolve any of the spectacular murders of the earlier period, which even the former government was unable to resolve, as you promised? Will this government contribute to the cover-up of defence minister Pavel Bulatovic's murder, as the winter was done, or will it now open up in the direction of investigating and lighting the murder? Will this government, now that it is reconstructed, shed light on the abduction and possibly the liquidation of Ivan Stambolic? Will this government now be able to resolve an affair over the abduction of a group of travellers from the train in Strpci and their liquidation? You've never even tried to shed light on that before. What's behind that? Who's powerful enough to stop the lighting? For months and years I have mentioned the name of this colonel, Ljubishe Beare; neither has the UN tribunal nor our police, nor military security, nor Interpol, nor has anyone been looking for him alive. The man organized the kidnapping, the liquidation, the killing of prisoners of war at Srebrenica, etc. No one's looking for him alive. I wonder what happened to that man, why he's not interesting to anyone. Furthermore, will this reconstructed government be able to solve the murder of Momir Gavrilovic, will you be able to? Do you now promise to be able to solve General Buha's murder? Will you be able to solve the murder of Jagodina journalist Milan Pantic? The strawberry is such a small place, there can be no large selection of possible perpetrators and organizers of that murder. When are you going to clear that up? What are you waiting for? Will this government, now reconstructed, be able to deal with the mob? Will the mafia continue to run major life flows in this country, especially financial flows? Will this government once again give Dragoljub Markovic, the "Strmivo-producer" or anyone else in the Surcin clan to fix the roads in Serbia? Did you have someone more suitable to fix those paths? I could have named you 20 enterprises in Serbia, at least, that were eventually celebrated in the quality of building such roads. You find someone who grew chickens and eggs until the other day, and now he's paved around Serbia, and nothing, it's all normal in Serbia. Is it going to be normal under this reconstructed government or not? What will be the policy of prosecuted perpetrators? Will people still, as anyone from the top of DOS power comes to mind, be called, and then no one is able to prove them guilty; and where the guilt is proven, even in the most serious crimes, to defend people from freedom? Eight bullets were fired into a man and the perpetrator of the murder attempt continues to defend himself from freedom. What else is there to determine? He confessed to attempted murder, the victim was known, the bullets were counted and removed from the body, everything was photographed, photographed, and standing. Will this government stop putting pressure on other spheres of government? Will this government, now that it has been reconstructed, given the new people entering it, including Rodoljub Sabic, stop acting as Parliament's tutor, act as a branch of government over Parliament? Will this new, reconstructed government stop running parliamentary politics in the country? Will this government cease to interfere with the jurisdiction of the judicial authorities? There are many reasons to criticise the situation in the judiciary, especially that judges and the presidents of the courts are individually criticised, but it must never be done by someone who belongs to the executive authority. The party, both ruling and opposition, can be the media, but the minister can't, neither can the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister should understand that the hierarchy of government is below and the President of Parliament, and the President of the Supreme Court and the President of the Constitutional Court. A symbolic executive chief is the President of the Republic. If we still have him, no one knows yet, but it doesn't matter. Those elections were supposed to be called before. The President of the Republic comes first in the hierarchy of state officials, then the President of the National Assembly, then the President of the Constitutional Court, then the President of the Supreme Court, then the Prime Minister. We had a period in which the judiciary was considered a direct extension of the executive power. But it's a totalitarian communist period. The past 12 years have been a painful release of the judicial authority. Not enough, inadequately often, but at least this reversible attempt to resubmit the judicial authority to the executive authority has not been recorded. Even the people you trusted most, so you made them the presidents of the Supreme Court, the district courts, etc., and they became insufferably involved by the executive authority in their business. Imagine that these are some people whose choice you did not participate in or that they were chosen against your will in these places: what would be the situation then? Whether this government is going to exercise its constitutional powers at all or thinks it creates its own responsibilities; so what it does not like from the framework of constitutional competences is that it does not need and does not have to do, but only does what it wants and does what it pleases. A serious, mental government is recognized by the fact that it insists on doing what is most difficult and unpleasant for it. Running away from a problem can't be a way to solve a problem, and in this current government no one has understood, no one understands. You're in no condition to understand or follow a line of less resistance. I can say globally that this government is incompetent, but I suppose there are individual competent people. Why don't they come to terms? I can't because of the general atmosphere. What has this government produced in the past year and a half? It produced an atmosphere of fear in Serbia. There has never been such an atmosphere of fear in the past 12 years. Be careful, if someone under Milosevic had raised the price of electricity 100%, there might have been an armed rebellion in Serbia; no one should rule out mass electricity in houses, etc. You've collected electricity by 400% and you've raised taxes to the sky. In that atmosphere, it's such a fear that people whisper in their whispers. Does this government, now reconstructed, mean something to change in the information sphere? The government has been managing state television in a way unknown since the 1990s. Over the past 12 years, there's been a lot of problems with national television. The state television was biased, it was engaged in an unauthorized manner by the regime, but such a media blockade of the opposition never existed. You have a media blockade of the opposition, in which the SRS has had no access for a year and a half, there is absolutely no access to state television. Is that something the Prime Minister can boast about, or is he going to say he has no control over state television? Then that's exactly the problem with him not being in control. Who controls his state television, William Montgomery? Who appointed him the editor-in-chief of the Information Program? If the government didn't set it up, then who set it up, who can set it up? Who set up the board of directors? First, it's impossible that there are independent people on the board. They're always dependent on who's setting them up and who can get rid of them. Independent people in the political system don't exist and don't give us that termology, Prime Minister, here to offer. She just can't get through. The question arises here whether state television will be controlled by the National Assembly or by the Government. So far, he's always the government. Earlier opposition parties advocated that it was directly controlled by the National Assembly, proportionate to the participation of each political party in the structure of the National Assembly. That no one's answering state television, that kind of circumstance is impossible. You're trying to present to the public that it doesn't suit anyone or at least apparently looks like it doesn't answer to anyone; it certainly suits someone, but that someone is outside the structure of the institutional government. If the Prime Minister claims, and has already said such a thing from the bench, at least in that sense, that he has no control over state television, it is an additional element of his responsibility as Prime Minister. He didn't even have control over his vice president, so he was caught in a spy affair. Something like that could happen around state television, Zorana Djindjic. Where's the guarantee it won't happen? The Prime Minister, or Government, must not lose control of anything in their jurisdiction. If you are ashamed of your authority in that area or if it does not suit you, suggest to the National Assembly that a law be passed by which it will directly control state television. State television is a very important and dangerous political tool, a means of political struggle and is always under someone's control. Whether it will be under government or Parliament's control is a matter of principle. It's a concept thing. But if it's going to be out of control of both the government and Parliament, then it's a huge danger to the people and to the state. Someone's gonna control it or someone's already in control. Someone there is creating an editorial policy beyond your will, if the Prime Minister continues to insist that he has no control over state television. Someone's got to control it, because there's huge government money invested in it. When you say "state," you mean "people." It is not someone who is formally independent of managing state television that has to be managed by someone who will answer to the Government and Parliament, who will be responsible for each of their actions and who will be able to be removed if it does not work within the framework of government or Parliament's policy. And what kind of government and parliament policy will be on this issue is being discussed in the National Assembly, not that someone is setting up their personal or external criteria there. Is in that field our country needs to show that there is no independence, that there is no independence, are we under occupation? I feel like we are, but no one to admit it. Is it your desire to be under occupation, under coercion? If that's your wish, go public. If that's not your wish, and if it bothers you, then stand up to it. Who's the one who can give you conditions? That should make the executive government afraid, that's the key question. You show by your attitude and behavior as if you're not afraid of anyone, and that's wrong for two reasons. First, because you should be afraid of someone, you should be afraid of the mood of your people, citizens of Serbia, you should be afraid of parliament. If you were afraid of him, you wouldn't humiliate him like you did for a year and a half and you'd have to be afraid of the judiciary. Not that you're breaking into courts with cameras, but that the judicial authority controls you thoroughly. You are obviously not afraid of the votes of the people, of the parliament, of the judicial authorities. The media is completely conducting, instrumentalized. You're showing some fear, but it's a fear of some non-institutional factor. Well, let's think about what an extra-institutional factor that is. There are two possibilities. I'm not going to directly define myself for either of these options, but I'm going to expose both of them. The first of these non-institutional factors can be external forces and they are a real extraterrestrial factor in the impact on the Serbian government, which the government is objectively afraid of. Because if you weren't afraid of that factor, it could never have happened that the entire government violated the constitution and all the positive laws and delivered Milosevic to The Hague tribunal. You know, there's no question of whether I'm sorry or not. I feel sorry for every Serb who went there against his will, but it is inconceivable consequences of such an act. Now, I can't explain it to you, Milka, I'm sorry, I'd be trying my best to get out of my way, but in advance, I'm assessing that I'm in no position to explain it to you. So that external factor exists. There's another non-institutional factor. You're not to blame for that factor. That factor appeared earlier, 10 or 12 years ago. It's a factor in organized crime or the mafia, but you're obviously afraid of that factor and many of you are under control of that factor. Now I'm not going to name it - this one is, it's not. I might at least be wrong about one, and I wouldn't want to make that mistake. But many are controlled by that factor. Some have previously agreed to this factor, thinking -- they will be useful to them, they will support them, they will finance them, they will contribute to them in something, etc. However, this factor requires that his services be returned and therefore you fidget. You're already uncomfortable. That factor acts like an angel, it's not true. He's looking more and more every day. At first, he didn't ask for so much, and you could -- you let him work the highway, you satisfied him a little bit, you give him the Ibar Highway again, you get him a little more satisfaction. His appetites have grown to unscrupulous limits. The ones you're trying to break up now, you're in no condition. How do we solve this problem? Now, you're going to have to judge that for yourself. The simplest thing is to conclude that you will share the fate of that factor. It's just that this factor has become intolerable to the outside environment, and to the Western forces; with Western forces being powerful enough to control this mob factor when he used them for certain things; and yet they encourage it, so help him, etc. He's no longer needed, the Western forces are rejecting him with one move. You don't need it anymore, but you're not in a position to throw it away, you're not even able to master it anymore. Why aren't you able to beat him -- some of you might have started some action on that plan. They can't, personal fear. Some of them are involved, they can be compromised, they tighten, they stick to the side, some get retired, some run for secondary functions, etc. Who can do that? Only one who isn't involved, only one who isn't compromised. Because there's a permanent compromise. The Prime Minister, of course, is running away from talking on this subject. If he didn't run away from the talks, he wouldn't mind the opposition in parliament. Since the Constitutional Court is scheduled to fill in, and I'm going to end it, how much longer do I have left?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22197	50 more seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22198	Fifty seconds; well, I'll say it soon. There will be an immediate question of the legality and legitimacy of this government reconstruction. You should have waited for the Constitutional Court to form, so someone might have warned you. You know, you have, in an anti-constitutional and illegal manner, expelled a large number of ambassadors from this House, in two ways -- counter-business and counter-constitutionally removed the MPs of the SRS, and you have permanently expelled DSS MPs in an anti-constitutional and illegal manner, and all that Parliament decides afterwards against the constitutional citadel under the influence of the Constitutional Court, its review. You may have chosen the people you think are reliable for the Constitutional Court, and I don't think they're the people who will end up bending their spines and serving. You thought they'd bend your spine and Vida Petrovic-Skero, and Leposava Karamarkovic. For a while they did, but at one point they felt hurt in that basic human dignity. Those who have not yet been compromised enter the Constitutional Court. I guess they'll get their backs straight a lot faster.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22199	The word has a People's MP, Srda Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22200	The Honorable Presidency, distinguished members of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we've heard a lot of stories about some formal and essential things. I think the three essential questions we need to answer in the reconstruction of the government and try to answer one set of demagogue questions that some MPs have asked here. The three key questions raised here are: why is the government being reconstructed in the first place, and what is the connection to DOS pre-election promises; the second question - what is achieved by creating two new ministries; and, third question - why is this done after a year and a half? The answer to the first question, first of all, for those who keep mentioning DOS pre-election promises - two basic pre-election DOS promises (here, a DOS programme shows me) were decentralisation and environmental concerns. So these are two basic pre-election DOS promises, and in that story, in the last year and a half, we've had some serious shifts on the subject. As you know, it's not just a promise that matters, it's what you do. So, you're making a reform of legislation, you're passing the Law on Local Self-Government, you're passing an omnibus law for Vojvodina, you're passing a bill on a system of environmental protection, and then you're institutionally strengthening, so you're creating ministries above these laws, which should be implemented, not vice versa. The other thing is that this reconstruction also responds to citizens' demands. It is really hard to find someone in Serbia today who would be against the environment ministry or who thinks Serbia does not need a health minister. The second question is what is achieved by creating two new ministries -- of course, responsibility and efficiency in two very important sectors. The government's reconstruction is actually a personal result of a truly large reform in the ministry's jurisdiction under the Ministry Act. I am sorry that one part of the opposition was not there, and the other was involved in water-popping and did not read what the Ministry Act says, but these are really major procedures and major changes in the responsibilities adopted by the National Assembly and are also the product of today's government reconstruction. For the first time in Serbia, we are getting the Ministry for the Protection of Natural Resources and the Environment. And the answer to the question why it took a year and a half -- for those who ask such a question, I think it's very important that we try to explain the difference between form and essence. Technically, we had the Ministry of Environmental Protection, which was responsible for air, noise and vibration. That ministry couldn't answer the basic questions of citizens who once asked MPs here, so you could find the answers to what kind of water we drink at the Ministry of Mining and Energy; the answer to what kind of food we eat -- at the Ministry of Agriculture, and it was practically a ministry for nothing. When the government was formed, we proposed that such a ministry be abolished for nothing and started a one-and-a-half year ecological reform. The fact that Serbia has not had any environmental policy for 50 years, and that for DOS, environmental policy is really a serious business, is the question that we need to talk about here. One of those expressions is the formation of this ministry. I'll tell you what was done in those years and a half, which is very important and without which the formation of that ministry would really be nothing. First, we established a report on the state of the environment, in June of last year, what is the state of our environment; although it is legally due to parliament and government, they did not have this report for over seven years. That report says what is our painful truth, which is that we are late for developed countries of the world between 30 and 40 years in this important area. Then both the government and the assembly's competent board, for the first time in Serbia's history, established national environmental priorities. Members of all parliamentary groups took part in this. The law on environmental protection, which is now in the assembly procedure, is probably one of the best laws that the government has ever proposed to the Assembly, is also publicly discussed. Then, through the Law on Local Self-Government and Omnibus Law, complete decentralisation was carried out in this area. The environment is for the first time the original jurisdiction of the municipalities. For the first time, there are mechanisms to fund it. In the budgets of municipalities for the first time there are eco-funds in the Law on Local Self-Government and for the first time there are nine competencies of the AP Vojvodina (which has been delegated by the Republic of Serbia) in this important area. Local artillery everywhere in the world is the key to environmental policy. What is next and very important - we received through the Ministry Act a real change of jurisdiction, and for the first time we have both efficiency and responsibility in these ministries. In the end, it should be said that we have actually managed to reach a general political and public consensus for that year and a half of the topic that has always been "the 13th pig" in Serbia and in a very serious poll 72% of Serbian citizens support the Ministry of the Protection of Natural Resources and the Environment. Over two-thirds of citizens in 15 Serbian cities, where a second poll, through municipalities, has been conducted, places garbage and drinking water as their first local problem, and 10% of citizens as a second local problem. Over 2,000 people participated in 31 cities to discuss the formation of this ministry and the law on the environmental protection system, their message to the government and the Assembly was clear to them today. Environmental policy is really a serious business for DOS, and I don't think there's a need to rush the form, so the Ministry, and the essence, that is. the legal mechanisms and competences at their disposal. Finally, there were several questions by several MPs on the subject of very concrete matters. The first question of demagogue is why ministers do not address their programme. Because they can't turn around, because they're not ministers yet. So let's get this thing straight. Yesterday, for the first time in the history of this Parliament, the candidate for Minister Dr. Angelka Mihajlov answered the questions of the Committee MPs, including issues related to the programme, property status and work biography -- and that is a beautiful practice that we have achieved here. The second question asked here by the MP refers to the Lugomir River, in Jagodina. The government is very familiar (and during the Environmental Directorate) with the situation in Jagodina. The Lugomir River is a blue river, a major environmental problem. Thanks to the new ecological policy for the first time, the Jagodina Municipality has formed an eco-fund. Two weeks ago, six million municipal couples were separated and some money was due from the Republic to solve the problem. Another problem is that there are direct spills from four large pollutants in the river, which no one has dealt with for 20 years, and now the government is giving incentives; but not to get into that topic. The last thing that's a demagogue question is these famous birds. So, the affair -- the Balkan birds are international, and this Parliament is being raised as a question. The Committee on the Environment of Parliament is the first state body to raise the issue. The Ministry of Agriculture and the Department of Environment, the competent authorities, police, who together with hunting inspectors carried out 140 informative talks, filed three criminal charges against the perpetrators in Ecko, and for the first time in the history of a assembly board, a man from the police, deputy head of the criminal police administration, testified publicly on the assembly board. Whether MPs come, are or are not members of the Committee, it shows how much their parties treat parliament as a serious place, but at least as far as affairs - Balkan birds are concerned, there is clear. Currently Interpol is late for our police, when it comes to data acquisition; believe that we in this affair will push out justice, find Italian accomplices and do what was the request of the Committee and what was repeated yesterday, and that is - find agreement with the minister of police on the formation of environmental police. Ladies and gentlemen, vote for the reconstruction of the Serbian government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22201	The word has the People's Messenger Tom Bushetic, and after him, Shandor Pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22202	Dear fellow MPs, after a long announced reconstruction of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we already have a reconstruction today. Of course, this is not a serious reconstruction, because it is only education of a few new ministries and the election of several ministers. In the opinion of the SPS, a serious reconstruction would be e.g. Minister Dusan Mihajlovic's resignation, because the crime in the last two years or a year and a half compared to the years has increased 50% for us and there are no days without hearing that there has been another murder, kidnapping, bank robbery, mail, self-service. Minister Dusan Mihajlovic is only zealous in co-operation with The Hague tribunal and in the extradition of Serbs to the political court. A serious reconstruction of the government would be either the resignation or the replacement of the minister of education, Gaš Knezevic, because what he did in a year and a half is only the introduction of large scholarships, and up to 150,000 dinars, so that a difficult number of young students, students, good students, will be able to study at all. Or, a serious reconstruction would be the resignation of Minister Djelic, who has introduced new taxes, taxes during this time, taxes on which Serbian citizens suffer from headache and many will not be able to meet their basic civic obligations. It is certainly the worst result of Minister Dragan Milovanovic, as he and his ministry have passed the famous Labour Law for this time. It's the most tragic law. The workers thus became modern slaves. In addition, under the auspices of this ministry, only 18 months have left 300,000 people out of work. A serious reconstruction would certainly be either a shift or a resignation or a resolution of Prime Minister Vladan Batic. It is right that District Court President Vida Petrovic-Škero says that Vladan Batic does not interfere in his business. In addition to holding the election of the president of courts who are members of his party or some member of the DOS, the only thing Vladan Batic does is -- he deals with the issue of an independent Serbia, organises the fake SPS congress with Banet Ivkovic, and should indeed resign at the very least. That would be a serious government reconstruction for us. When it comes to the proposed candidates, it is quite clear, if we are talking about Vice President Milet Isakov, that this is one deal to get a few more MPs here by hand and that the government has as much stability as possible. Rodoljub Sabic may be a good minister. His mandate is slow as an MP, because we know that Vladan Batic registered it. Perhaps that fate awaits us, through Banet Ivkovic and Vladan Batic, but, I say, it is disputed that his status as MPs, and as minister, we will see. Mrs. Udovicski - quite clearly the proposal of the International Monetary Fund; our government must do everything the IMF says. Djindjic promised us a year and a half ago that he would not accept the IMF concept, and it is being implemented: the liberalisation of the capital market with the bankruptcy of businesses and banks has already happened; the market founding of prices -- and we have that. The price of electricity, municipal services, food - 40% is more expensive than in Europe, and all that is accepted. Hence my great mistrust with the lady who has been proposed. It is simply not a serious reconstruction, because it is hardly possible to improve something from what Prime Minister Djindjic said on January 25th. At that time, he said the government would do everything possible to achieve general political stability, and there is nothing of general political stability, I mean, first of all, on state issues, is getting worse; he promised construction and stability of democratic institutions, and there is nothing. Passing reform laws - if Zoran Djindjic thinks with this new government he will pass reform law, there is nothing, because for a year and a half, no reform law has been passed. He also talked about the dynamic economic development and employment of the unemployed, and today there are many more unemployed, there is no production, everything is caring. And finally, what Djindjic specifically said a year and a half ago -- it's going to be a better life, and there's nothing better than a better life, it's getting worse, it's much worse in all aspects. In the end, I think Serbia has exits for this government: not Congress, the exit is that the government resigns. Serbia is in one great hopelessness today and Serbia is a protectorate today. There's nothing in this government to ask. The difference between us and our brothers in Republika Srpska is only that SFOR arrests there, and here they arrest, unfortunately, our officers. I think the way out is for the government to resign, to discuss the election and to see what it is and what the effect of this government is. It's the only way out.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22203	The People's Messenger Pal Shandor has the word, and after him the Messenger of the people Peter Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22204	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues, sometimes present ministers, I've come to say two things. When we were in opposition, we asked that, at least once the government was there, so I have to stay principled -- it's my turn that sometimes they come, if we're asked to be regular. I called to say a few words about two things. First, since 1990, I have insisted on this and talked constantly about amendments to the Rules of Procedure, so that it would be good, in the capacity to strengthen the position of the board, that the committees in charge question candidates for ministers. That happened the first time yesterday. True, in an informal manner and without a business obligation, but Mrs. Michael was present and the members of the Committee were able to ask her many questions, and some were unpleasant. I think it's a good parliamentary practice and what we haven't done so far should really be installed in our Rules of Procedure, that the minister can't come, I would say, only to the mustache and trust of the Prime Minister and to the trust of the parliamentary majority, but to have the chance first to prove his, if you will, professional and political competence before that committee which is parent and thus to strengthen the function of those committees. Therefore, I think she will be unanimously elected and it is good that the government is opening that ministry again. I stress -- again; there were several environmental and environmental ministers, as was already called; I think the first one was Slobodanka Djordan, but also Jordan Aleksic of New Democracy, we have to admit (even when they were in coalition with the SPS), he was an agile minister in the ministry and he did a lot of things. Therefore, a small technical correction: it is not the first time that the ministry is opened, but simply the tradition continues. What I was about to say: I think it's a very good separation between the justice ministry and local self-government and the formation of a new ministry. I'd say that's very justified, not because the current minister of these jobs worked badly, but because it just increased the size of the business, and probably the tasks of one man can't do it all. What I should say, as I understand this task, is that the ministry would have to work on a new law on local self-government that would be Eurocompatible, in line with the European Charter of Local Self-Government, which would completely decentralised Serbia, not only deconcentrate the government, which means the existing municipalities, which are actually small, sometimes natural and sometimes unnatural cuts made thirty years ago, reduced to local self-government, at the level of the settlement. This would solve a whole series, if you want interethnic tensions, because you would not ask which people or minorities who are majorised in which municipality, but you would know that in one village the first man or responsible mayor was elected in the direct elections, and secondly, the Law on selecting a councilman would not be of any influence because the question would not be asked - and what now, if a party were not represented in a village, or a village, or whether they would choose themselves. In fact, it would mean that power is completely brought to the threshold of the one who needs to manage and who needs to consume the rights that come out of it. I think this example of a transitional solution to the cuts, which means the municipalities that have more settlements in them, actually exist nowhere in Europe. It should not be afraid that we are politically immature, if we give a little more power to those who are in the bar and that it will not work well, or that the state should keep some corrections and conditions when it can fix it, intervene, but should allow people not to feel that power as if they were alienated, but to really be with them; it means, not only to deconcentrate, but to decentralised power. And then the questions that are asked in style -- and where our money is -- would be asked in a different way. It is now said that the province is very important, and all those who talk about it are losing sight of the circumstances that the SFRY has fallen apart and that the simple foreign-political context of this story is quite different in this situation when Serbia is territorially organised as it is. Then when it is said -- our money should stay with us, that means that the Serbian majority wants to be in autonomy compared to the Serbian majority in Belgrade, and then that story gets an entirely immature one, I mean political context. The question -- where our money is, it's going that way: our money's in Temerin, our money's in New Sad, our money's in Somboro, I don't know which village, and they're not decentralised or deconcentrated in New Sad, so now we're going to fight for our money again in Novi Sad. I think it's one step that would be good to think about, and then that story gets a whole other dimension. What the ministry would still have to take into account is probably what's called modern regionalization; it does, of course, make sense and work on it, but retaining the political structures that were after World War II when all the other circumstances changed, I don't think God knows how smart. On the other hand, I think we should pass a new law on territorial organization. You have a situation that de facto you have some villages, settlements that are surrounded, if you want, are even economical continents, which are not in the list of settlements in the municipalities. I shall, for example, list one such village in the city of Vienna: these are Poles, with a thousand and some inhabitants. The Poles are part of the fourth local community in Vienna and people simply don't have their identity, and they have everything they need to be a village. There's probably other villages like that somewhere, and that's how the list of settlements should be introduced into everything that actually exists in life. Why didn't the previous government do it? This is a very different question; but if we put and implement such a territorial reorganisation of the government, then they have the right to consume on other grounds what belongs to them as a settlement, and they are not someone's pendant and are not a detachable part of a city that is 12 kilometers away or two villages that are connected, etc. Therefore, we would have to comply with our legal provisions in life. On the other hand, we must warn that this ministry will probably take care of the equal use of the language of national minorities, because you have a whole series of cases that are now passed new statutes of municipalities and in the statutes there is no name of Hungarian, Romanian, Russian, as we have agreed and as the Law on the Rights of National Minorities says: that the names of the units of local self-government, inhabited places, squares, streets will also be printed in the language of the national minority concerned, according to its tradition and spelling. A whole series of municipalities, and I know a few examples, say in Srbobran they will not write that it is the Sentomash, as it is in Hungarian or that Novi Bechej - Terek Vienna (Török Becse), as it is in Hungarian, but it is in various other ways. The law on the rights of national minorities is clear. Mr. Sabic, probably as future minister, can take care of it - although there are no criminal provisions in this law, because I don't think anyone is bothered by it, and we're going to Europe, then we should really sign up for the right toponyms, as they say in the language of the minority concerned and there should be no political dispute about whether or not it is, but simply that thing should be maximum liberalisation and the ministry should provide support for those who are loyal citizens of the state, but they think they should have any more special rights. There is, of course, the problem of using national symbols in local self-government buildings. It is said by this law that they can stand out during national holidays, but it is disputed to say that in the hall where the assembly sessions of the municipality can be held they can be prominent symbols and it is not regulated. I think, of course, it can, as approved by the state, etc. Therefore, the new ministry certainly has many new tasks, which is necessary. It is necessary to support its formation and, of course, take care of it, and we MPs are therefore there, as the ministry will function in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22205	The People's Messenger Petar Petrovic has the word, and after him, the People's Messenger Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22206	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, right at the start of saying that the Party of Serbian Unity will not vote for the proposed reconstruction of the Government, because we believe this is not a reconstruction or some of them are playing with expressions here. The government's reconstruction means saying which ministry did not work well, thanking the minister in question for his work so far and then proposing a new minister. These are only cosmetic changes, extorted by the formation of two new ministries and the extorted resignations of two ministers so far. On the other hand, in order to complete the presidency, namely seven SCOY secretaries, as they are called in the people of the vice-president of the government, since one is missing, we must select another Deputy Prime Minister to meet some of the small parties, which are not represented in the Serbian government, so that they do not rebel and that this parliament can support the government. I must say, I convey the opinion of the people as I come from Jagodina and the environment, I am constantly on the ground and tied to a slogan that you constantly place through your means of informing that Serbia is on the right track, know that the people say that Serbia is not on the right track; Serbia is on the right path to fail. Mr. President, it is best for you to resign, you and your government members, to call elections at all levels, because it is the only way Serbia can get out of the crisis it is in, and the crisis is economic, moral, social, political. In my presentation, I must remain at the motions of the ladies and gentlemen you propose to be ministers. When it comes to the Ministry of Health, I expected, as well as the MP club of the Serbian Unity Party, that the future minister of health of the Republic of Serbia will come out with the programme, so let's see how Serbia's health will come out of the collapse in which it is. Mr. President, just one piece of information, my wife was supposed to receive an injection yesterday and she had to buy a two dinar needle in Jagoda; and there's not that much money in Serbia's healthcare, and doctors and nurses can work. Come on, please, let that health minister do something that the citizens of Serbia and the patients who have to go to the doctor have to be treated. What's that patient who doesn't have the money to treat? There was a road ahead of him to the cemetery, far away. On the other hand, medical salaries are so miserable that doctors specialists work for 12 to 14 thousand dinars, nurses receive below 10,000 dinars, and those who are on duty, and those without them, the wages are even less. When we talk about the Ministry of Mining and Energy, it is obvious that the esteemed Mr. Novakovic was forced to resign after a year's visit, as he said himself, in the Serbian Government, and the lady who is to succeed him at the head of the ministry just say - may God help her; for, if she has had what Mr. Novakovic did not solve, it is the strike of miners, which will certainly continue to be the price of electricity that is abnormal; just one information, let's say, the consumer who had zero consumption in the past two months has received an account where he was hired by 7.58 and paid about 350 dinars. This must be resolved by the Ministry of Energy and Mining through its competent directors, which you place in Serbia's energy organisations. Finally, when it comes to the Ministry of Local Self-Government, Mr Sabic, I can only say that he goes to church first to pray to God, because only he can help him solve future conflicts between local authorities and local authorities in over 100 municipalities of Serbia. Namely, where love evaporated, the love that was between DOS and those who left DOS, the Democratic Party of Serbia, conflicts are daily, conflicts are obvious, which is why people, or citizens of Serbia, suffer. To conclude, as I watch out for time, once again I call on the Prime Minister and Minister to come out with honor to this assembly, to thank them for their trust so far; to fulfill that promise you made in December 2000 that there will be elections in Serbia in a year and a half. It's been a year and a half, so let's make choices and see how much the people love you. I note once again that the Serbian Unity Party cannot give confidence to this government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22207	The word is by MP Marijan Risticevic, followed by MP Bora Stanimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22208	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the Ministers, it is on the agenda that the government's reconstruction is on the agenda and at first to thank the minister who resigned for his work so far, because he had extremely difficult circumstances. Our energy system was in a state where it was found, thanks to some previous government, to the government of universal destruction, which today is represented as an opposition. This government wasn't just the government of universal destruction, it wasn't some shadow government they mentioned today, it was a government of darkness, a government of darkness and chaos, and it could be called something like that. Compared to this, the government did not have any results, so today's critics need to cover their ears and know that this government has done a solid job, that it has carried out reforms without reforms and the results of reforms going together. First reforms are being carried out, so the results of the reforms will be felt on the basis of the government's reform projects. I'm going to try to defend the government we've given our trust, so I'm going straight from the Minister of Agriculture, who's been attacked here by some underpants or whatever they call it, some black crows, I don't know what they're called. I know they live in Batajnica and have a pool. Right now, I'm gonna say that the situation in agriculture isn't exactly what we'd like, but it's far better than what we found. Just to remind critics that this government, for example, has abolished the sales tax on plant protection products, machinery, spare parts, variety seeds, livestock food, components for livestock, etc. We've been asking for it for 10 years from the former government, today's opposition, and we couldn't wait for it. I should also say to one of my colleagues, a respected colleague who often advocates agriculture here, whom I had to last session to convince that the crop was not in July, but that the crop was in October and November, and that the price was set back then in October and November by this government and that it was for the first time in history that we knew the price of wheat on the eve of the seed. I want to remind him and try to convince him that the price of last year's wheat was not seven dinars, but seven and a half dinars. I hope he understands that. Although I believe he enters agricultural cultures very rarely, usually when he is forced by a small or a great necessity. And to avoid debt, questions are asked here what individual ministers are going to do, so I'm going to say this peasantly, that the new Energy Minister will take care of energy, that the health minister will take care of health care, that he will treat, although after some of my opposition colleagues there will be no salvation for them. There's no treatment here. The Ministry of Ecology will look after the environment and immediately inform them that the environmental situation in our country that left us with the real disaster, and in order for us to prepare for the European Union, we need to take care of our country, to resuscitate it, to resuscitate the "ps" of oil, to resuscitate all these black spots, live at Panchev; in order for some international projects to pass, we need to have the Ministry of Environment, or the Ministry of Environment. Approximately, it's going to be ministers, and I'm going to conclude, which one here said the people were pulling out their hair, I think they pulled something under his hair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22209	The word has been issued by MP Bora Stanimirovic, followed by MP Slobodan Tomovic, and that is to say by MP Zoran Angelkovic as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22210	The Honorable Presidency, fellow MPs, respected members of the government, was announced and a significant reconstruction of the government was expected, and on the agenda we only have a proposal to elect a number of government members, although there was a proposal for a change of government or at least a larger reconstruction, came up with this proposal. I would just point out the changes that are being made: we were almost a year and a half ago in the election of the new government for almost one day discussing the need to form the Ministry of Ecology; it is interesting that people who were most opposed today insist on forming the ministry. All right, we can accept it, because it's very important for Serbia to form one of these ministries. However, a number of current regime officials, DOS, often emphasises that it is very important to prevent, at any cost, any choice of new government, or new early elections, as this would impair reform. I think that things are quite different: first, if reform implies what was done after October 5th, then it is better to prevent such a reform; secondly, why we are talking in advance about early elections that will stop the reform, if for sure, it is assumed that they are in the position of further reforms in Serbia; thirdly, you gentlemen promised to hold early elections for a year and a half at the latest; however, this did not occur on October 5th. Which are the reasons, we have heard a lot during this discussion. And in order to prevent the government from falling and calling early elections, you did a legal and virtual acrobatic that provided the congregation's majority. The assembly majority will be able to prevent some of the changes the people of Serbia are expecting right now, and possibly later. So it is easier for the government to propose new laws that are voted here practically and without discussion, because thanks to, above all, to this third Rules of Procedure, there is almost no point in discussing when time is limited, when warnings are kept, when they are not allowed to say the truth, what is thought and when the introduction of a new system of work in the Assembly has practically taken place. The only question is whether living laws and regulations, by taste and measure only one interesting sphere, can be amortised by everything that has already happened or suggests that it will happen outside parliament, on Serbia's political, party or economic-social scene. What was previously suggested is now being realized: the government is taking over parliamentary competences. It thus allows the Prime Minister to centralise power in the Serbian government and marginalise the parliament, which is in charge of adopting regulations, laws and all that is necessary for Serbia. So last week, thanks to that legal, virtual acrobatic, you got an illegal parliament, which is just a coup, but a weaker intensity. This government's behaviour will affect the abolition of the country's remaining institutions and the introduction of some forms of dictatorship. How else do Serbian Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, who was heard last Wednesday night in Sremska Mitrovica as part of a tour of "Serbia on the Right Way": "I will now say something radical. I don't have any hair on my tongue about it. Perhaps the decision was to disband the judiciary on 6 October and open competitions for judges on 7 October. Maybe the same thing should have been done for both the police and the RTS. If nothing happens in July in this country, there may be a law before the Serbian Parliament in September to regulate it." I would ask the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia what will happen in July, and what would possibly initiate the adoption of this law. It's probably the lustration law here. This law has been passed by many countries in transition and practice has shown that it has brought very bad effects; the exception is Spain, which gave up after dictatorship and civil war; they are the only ones in Europe to draw a line, and this is a thick line, to build for the common forces what Spain today is. Do these threats, expecting July, pointing to what's about to happen, prepare something worse. Here, first of all, I think of the law on lustration, which will worsen the country's relations even more, and even after 50 years, when we have persecuted and divided, precisely thanks to this law and these measures, we will continue to divide. This so much before it's just about the situation we're about to create. After 5 October, the government has contributed to this, major changes in justice, police, RTS, healthcare, businesses, education. What did we get? There are some people who are incompetent. Instead of joining forces, creating together what we expect, implementing reforms, I wonder who will implement these reforms, and isn't this an attempt to accomplish in some other way what is imagined!
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22211	The word is held by MP Zoran Angelkovic, authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group, and then by MP Slobodan Tomovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22212	Ladies and gentlemen, we have different conventions, and one of these conventions is here today in Parliament, when we listen to the need to reconstruct the government in this euphoria of names, names, terms, transparency, reforms and reconstruction. We have recently had several important reconstructions: first the state, then Parliament, and today we are discussing the reconstruction of the government. When it comes to the reconstruction of the state, I think we ended it at one of the previous sessions of parliaments, the Republic and the Federal, abolishing the federal constitution and forming a constitutional committee to adopt a new constitutional charter, which, in fact, abolishs the common state of Serbia-Montenegro. Given that this brings to an end one common state, the continuation was - Parliament's reform. A good part of the job was done: one part of the MPs was expelled, the other came out alone. Why? That's their problem. The third part in this parliament is trying in various ways, through administrative measures, to steal MPs and transfer them to the parliamentary majority. It probably ended the reconstruction of Parliament and the conditions for today to discuss the reconstruction of the government. When it comes to the reconstruction of the government - the prime minister has the right at all times and at any moment to propose changes to the relevant ministers, but I think that this proposal that we have received today and discussed in public for a year, has several elements or several segments, and certainly, should be observed in different ways. First, the government's reconstruction has been discussed since last June, from the moment the government adopted an anti-constitutional regulation, kidnapping its citizens and handing them over to other countries. Of course, by then, we had lost one minister, then we had no Deputy Prime Minister. In fact, the government has been working for over a year now, and every week since then, a statement came from the government, a statement, a statement, a stance, a view that, except for that, a reconstruction would be carried out. Meanwhile, we have heard different initiatives and suggestions on who will be vice president, who will provide the parliamentary majority so that the government can be in this parliament. Today, we heard from the president that we had Mr. Isaac for the Deputy Prime Minister. Its greatest value is that it will help to have 126 MPs here, which leads to one parliamentary group or a party that has several MPs, he will in the government, as I understand, do the job of the president of the political party and guard the parliamentary majority, in order for the government to be safe. It's his whole work cycle. If that is the criterion, then it would be logical and it would be good if the Prime Minister here suggested 16 or 17 vice presidents, that each of these political parties that has MPs also have vice presidents and that we know that it is a college of political parties, and not a government that should do the right jobs in the work of its obligations. Of course, when it comes to the draft law on ministries, which we had here, it's one thing that we don't think is legally adopted, but that's the issue of the Constitutional Court, since we see that it will finally be elected; another that is being introduced by the Ministry of Ecology. We were, as you know, a year and a half ago for the ministry and we felt there was no reason to end it. But after this year and a half of the government, objectively, there is no reason for this ministry to be filled and that it exists; because, not industry, workers are fired, businesses are not working, so there is no environmental pollution. If there is no environmental pollution, then there is no need for such a ministry. However, it may be useful for water streams, that there are more fish in the rivers, but objectively it is not useful for Serbian citizens because they are jobless and without industry. It doesn't matter a personal name if there's nothing to do. When it comes to the Ministry of Local Self-Government, it is obvious that the minister of justice did not have time to deal with local self-government, as he was engaged in the abolition and disbanding of municipalities. If you in one country have only a few months to introduce temporary measures into 20% of municipalities, then I guess it's logical that elections for these local authorities and the security of the municipal assembly that will work in the interests of the citizens are discussed on the whole of the territory, as is logical. This turns out that the minister of justice and local self-government did his job, introduced temporary measures into 20% of municipalities, in over 30 municipalities, ended things, and now the new minister of local self-government has nothing to do. What will he do when temporary measures are introduced into so many municipalities? We hear that even several new municipalities are being introduced with temporary measures down in southern Serbia. Of course, the minister of justice doesn't have time to deal with it. He is campaigning against the previous government, and forgets that one fifth of that time has already been spent by the current government, and this government is already one-fifth of the time former government. Of course, when it comes to the Ministry of Mining and Energy, I'm not entering this name, it's probably quality, but we'll see, the current minister is most likely resigned because during the election campaign it was promised to cancel the fee on the count. In the last ten to fifteen days, it has been constantly announced that there will be a new mechanism for introducing a fee on the count, only it will not be called that, but a tax on the TV machine, but it will be paid through the electricity bill; not the neck, but the neck. The minister probably disagreed and it's logical to resign and leave the post. The most important thing in this reconstruction is that the Minister of Agriculture has been preserved, because while the Minister of Agriculture we will have both agile and audible loop, more specifically, each week we will have one. Last week, we had a village strike due to twice the price of raspberries and blackberries (there at Milka), and now we have a peasant strike at the woodshed loop. Of course, it's known why! Because the Minister of Agriculture successfully protects agriculture by allowing cheap pickles, tomatoes and everything else to be imported, and not protecting our export products such as raspberries and blackberries. On the one hand, imports are imported at dumping prices of what we sell on our market, from which wooded peasants live, and on the other hand it prevents farmers from selling raspberries and blackberries successfully, at least at the price at which they sold a year or two days ago. That's probably why the Minister of Agriculture keeps himself safe. It was logical, if this reconstruction was already being made, to get a new Minister of Agriculture, who would take more care of the peasants. Given the overall relationship of forces, changes in parliament, changes in relations in the electoral body, we think it is necessary to create a new government; this government can be transitional, temporary, call it whatever you want, it would call the elections. You do not have to call these elections extraordinary, you can also call them regular, in order to create in Parliament such a relationship of strength that would be a real representative of Serbia's citizens' mood today and to continue to stop the closure of businesses and the dismissal of workers in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22213	The word is by MP Slobodan Tomovic, followed by MP Djura Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22214	Madam President, Madam Vice-President of the Assembly, Mr Prime Minister, gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I declare myself relevant for the proper reconstruction, I would like to retrospect the events which generated some of these proposals. I will remind you that on 23 January, we have passed the Law amending the Ministry Act and that, regardless of opposition from the SPS opposition, we have said that we will abolish the Ministry of Local Self-Government and organise these affairs within the Ministry of Justice. We also said, in addition to other things, not to elaborate them and not to waste my time and the time of my colleagues for further discussion, that we would also abolish the Ministry of Environmental Protection and add the affairs of this ministry to the Ministry of Health. One year after the adoption of that law, the Proposer submits a new law on the amendment of the Ministry Act and, apparently, not hastening by the adoption of that law - and the reason for it can be changes that are not essential, but caused by reasons of trade and contract of parties within DOS - so, one year after that, the promoter says - here, we have a new draft law amending the Ministry Act; and then, of course, a dozen days ago we adopt this new law in which we say - e, now we will return from the Justice Department's composition of affairs relevant to the Ministry of Local Self-Government, and we will also do it with jobs to protect the environment. It's a bit like a case, as well as among the government members, and among you, there are a lot of those who are interested in sports and express themselves in sports terminology, like when the coach pulls the player out of the team, and now he sends another spare to solve his game, and then replace him. It's not about the player anymore, it's probably about the coach. Erem, we then passed the Law amending the Ministry Act, we said again that there are these ministries, and that is why we need to discuss some of these proposals today. What is very clear here today, what were the reasons for these changes? First, in my opinion and conviction, it is the proposing surface and the elemental ignorance of the principles, rules and methodologies of the scientific organisation of work. I would like to point out that the axiom of good business is that they are organized in their area, complexities, scope and certainly with respect to the importance that we want to give to a job. It is obvious that this partial proposal does not have an account. Perhaps the reason may be unnecessary vanity, I would say, almost stubbornness in not accepting what we have proposed in time as SPS MPs; because, if our proposal had been adopted at that time, we would not be discussing today the need for at least two ministries, which we built ten days ago, and we are discussing these proposals again. But maybe there's a reason, and I'd say, first of all, it's a fundamental need to satisfy the appetites of individual parties for ministers from their own ranks, because it looks like the time has come to pay back the debts and to keep the promises, which may have been made to the leaders of certain DOS parties. If that's the case, then I'm afraid we're not on the right track today, because we're discussing the consequences, not the cause. The cause is therefore an incomplete proposal, based on the ad hoc need for reorganization, not on the need of a fundamental organisation that would firstly rest on the principles of the scientific organisation of work. We, the SPS MPs, are not going to deal with the consequences, we are pleading for the cause, and therefore we demand that on the principles of the scientific organisation, we make a fundamental reorganisation of the affairs and reorganisation of the government, so let's talk about it. About what results from an ad hoc attempt, we don't want to waste words or engage in personal solutions. So let's do one basic reorganisation and talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22215	The word has the People's MP Đura Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22216	I would not repeat what some colleagues have been saying, but I would like to express my opinion that the return of these two ministries is the result of an understanding of the error when they were abolished at the beginning of the term of office of this government, because I do not think that in Serbia the need for the operation of the Ministry of Local Self-Government and the Ministry of Ecology has ever ceased, that is, to protect the environment. I think that this empty walk, i.e. a year-and-a-half-day vacuum, has been unnecessarily made, especially in the area of environmental protection, given the consequences of NATO's aggression and NATO bombing of our country. By forming this ministry, I think it will contribute significantly to improving environmental protection and all businesses in the area. I would especially refer to some segments that are related to Kosovo and Metohija. I use the presence of the Prime Minister and a number of government members to ask - did this government in any way give up Kosovo and Metohija? Why would I ask that? For a number of reasons, and I'll only list a few. It is known that Serbia and Yugoslavia have invested in Kosovo and Metohija huge resources in creating and building economic capacity; and not only their own budgets, but also international loans. Thus, since funds from international credits have been invested, our country's obligations, our countries, to return these annuities. So there are huge, valuable and very significant economic capacities in Kosovo and Metohija. These are high-value capacities. Resolution 1244 of the Security Council allowed all state and social property to be protected and managed by international forces. However, recently, there have been indications of Steiner and other UNMIK representatives about the sale, or rather, the sale through privatisation and state property, or the property of the Serbian state, so I ask the government, whether it is doing something to protect the state property, i.e. the property of the Serbian state in Kosovo and Metohija, not only in the area of economy, but also in the areas of electricity, railways, PTT traffic, infrastructure in the fields of education, health and so on. Because it is truly incomprehensible that despite the provisions of Resolution 1244, we are not responding to such moves by Steiner and his associates, when it comes to the property of the Serbian state. Secondly, I'm glad that the Minister of Health will be elected today and I think it's a mistake that it's been this long, and we haven't had one, although I know the deputy could have done those jobs. However, the minister is a minister, and has unnecessarily stalled with the appointment of a health minister. Because, according to that folk, "when the cat is gone, the mouse wheel of water." It may also be because of the absence of the health minister that some, in my opinion, absurd things are happening in the area of health care in the area of Kosovo seams; I would say only some; I would like to know whether such decisions have been made by the Ministry of Health, the Co-ordination Centre for Kosovo and Metohija, or whether it is the wish of some individuals. What exactly is this about? First, representatives of the Health Ministry's Coordination Centre and people asked healthcare professionals to declare whether they wanted to receive UNMIK's assistance or salary from the Serbian state. All doctors, as well as nurses and others, have declared that they do not want UNMIK's assistance, or compensation, but that they want to pay the Serbian state, because they consider it their country and want to stay in the health care system of the Republic of Serbia. After all, that is also foreseen by Security Council Resolution 1244. What happened? Health care representatives in Kosovo said: "No, you receive that compensation from UNMIK"; some advocated not to take it. I believe that UNMIK and KFOR are responsible for the persecution of Serbs and non-Albanians from the cities of Kosovo and Metohija and that these people are left without property; many have been displaced from cities, their apartments have been kidnapped, houses destroyed and now they are staying in the area, working hard on the health care of that people. And now individuals come forward and say, "Take that compensation, but give it to us in the register; until you hand over that fee we give you only half of your personal income." So, first, they pay half of their personal incomes, and when they bring compensation, or assistance from KFOR in euros, only then do they pay them the second half of their personal incomes. It's absurds, it's racketeering people who put their heads in a bag wanting to protect and heal that people, and someone's manipulating them. That's strange stuff, and I'd like to ask the new minister and the people of the health ministry to remove you from irregularities and absurdities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22217	The word has been given by the MP Nebojsa Jovic, and then by the MP of the people, Živodarka Dacin.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22218	Dear People's MPs, Mr. President, Mr. Ministers, today is the turn of a proposal to amend a number of members of the government elected in January 2001. Why is the government being reconstructed? It's probably done because what was promised in the 2001 government election was not done. And the government has promised us: respect for the Constitution and the law, rule of law, building democratic institutions, economic development and prosperity, better life, equal co-operation with the world and great economic assistance from the West. The government has pledged a uncompromising fight against organised crime, primarily in the area of kidnapping, racketeering, drug trafficking. On that occasion, the Prime Minister said - our keeping an account with the former regime's crime will only be credible if we build instruments to control our own government. Control starts with public denial of privileges; there is no buying-in of functional dwellings; there is no dealing with private affairs through the state; there is no membership in well-paid boards; no receiving expensive gifts; no interventions in the economy etc. But it's all there is, somewhere more and somewhere less. The biggest defeat the current government has experienced in Kosovo and Metohija. At the time, it was said that the then government is the Balkans' locomotive and that Albanians must be moderate in achieving their interests, otherwise they will be on the blind track. After all this I ask the question - who is on the blind track, are Albanians or Serbs? The adoption of a new ministry law has led to the division of the justice ministry and local self-government. And when the government was formed in January 2001, the SPS parliamentary group was to separate the ministry into two -- the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Local Self-Government. What did we get from that joint ministry? We didn't get anything. We have not received the promised reform of the judicial system, and this reform comes down to the shift of people who are other political beliefs. Political loyalty is a basic criterion in the judiciary. Serbia is increasingly moving away from the rule of law and becoming a political state. It is governed by decrees, political decisions, regulations, which put the government above the National Assembly, the Constitution and the law. The Constitutional Court has been deliberately blocked to avoid constitutional judicial control over the work of the Assembly and the government. At a local level, physical and legal violence, the government annulled the citizens' will and imposed temporary measures to more than 20% of municipalities. And that is one of the reasons why the Ministry of Justice and Local Self-Government should be separated - which is why I welcome today the formation of a new Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, with Minister Rodoljub Sabic at the helm. The key function of the state is to provide the citizen with conditions for normal work and civilised life, and it is essential to be healthy. If that's not there, you need to provide health care. The situation in all areas of health care of health insurance has deteriorated. So the question arises - why hasn't the health minister been elected for a year? Free doctoral protection has been abolished, participation has been introduced - payment of health services; it affects the elderly, the sick and the ones with the lowest incomes. There are major drug shortages, although the drugs have accumulated 200% and more. The financing of health care services is not planned on the basis of real source indicators, but on the basis of donations coming from abroad. People who do not cooperate are involved in the creation of healthcare. The health ministry and the Health Insurance Fund do not agree with the health care measures, but have been dealing with only issues since 5 October on the shift of directors in health institutions, not taking care of expertise, but political belongings. That's why I think the new health minister will only deal with those issues that are of interest to this country. And the question arises: did DOS have an ecological policy until today? If he had, he would not have abolished the Ministry of Ecology in January 2001 at both republican and federal level. Protection, development, improvement of the environment, are left to a large number, so-called NGOs. There are no reliable data on the consequences of NATO's environmental bombing; the government is covering up the consequences of using a missile with impoverished uranium in NATO aggression in 1999! This was discussed by the European Parliament, the Council of Europe Assembly, governments and parliaments of many countries. It's the only thing they didn't put on the agenda of the government and the assembly of our country. Why? Will the newly elected Department for the Protection of Natural Resources and the Environment do so? The responsibility is for the minister we choose today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22219	The People's Messenger, Dacin, has the word, and after her, Miomir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22220	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, respected fellow MPs, I would say, in all the stories we've heard today, that there was another point on the agenda, approximately - a review of the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and its ministries; I think that this part of the agenda is actually just filled in the vacant posts in the Government. Why do I say that? Last year, during the first change of the Ministry Act, when the Ministry of Environment Protection was attached to the Ministry of Health and to local self-government, the Ministry of Justice, we were Socialists and then said that this should not be done, that it was a very serious and responsible ministry and that everyone has a very responsible and extensive work. Of course, there was no one to hear it in this room at the time, and I would say that you all understood what it was about; it was simply then a political assessment that it was affirmative because in this way the new Government of the Republic of Serbia would show the god of saving people's money; it was certainly the result of the euphoria of the newly established government, in the changes that came, and also the euphoria that existed in the people; and what is today? I'm glad we have the appointment of new ministers today, although you practically did so before last week by the Ministry Act. As then, today I think it is necessary for the Ministry of Environmental Protection to exist. It existed, and if it hadn't, it had to be done today; not one but to invent two ministries because of all the consequences we will have, especially after the bombing and NATO aggression on our country, when we know that, for example, the time of half-life of certain radioactive matter is 25 and more years. It also means that, unfortunately, our population will have health problems in the future; therefore, in addition to the great work of the Ministry of Environment Protection, great responsibility will be reflected at the Ministry of Health. I really need to remind the Prime Minister here, if you don't believe me, all MPs have a copy of the exposé you put out here last January, there's really only one sentence of education, and not one word of health care. As then, today, I think it is impossible that this is a state that will not pay attention to the health of its population; but unfortunately, about that kind of relationship the Republic government had towards the health of the population; and of course I'm not talking about health workers, because we are all here primarily in the interest of our patients. I want the Minister of Health to really make some radical change, but Prime Minister, I don't know how if he except for the logistics support, he doesn't have that real financial support in view of the state of the economy; unless there's a possibility that they're left in the reserve of some donor funds, which will be invested in health institutions, so the treatment will be more adequate. Otherwise, the minister can only assume the role and say what already exists in the public: that 30% of us are employed in healthcare; I say it is still not; from town to city, including here in Belgrade, there are missing health personnel and medium and high profile. He can also publicly say that there is no money for health in the Republic of Serbia's budget, that the ministry has no money, that, of course, health institutions have no money and that simply patients, who have nothing to treat, will not be able to be treated. It is a very dangerous thing because many governments in Europe have fallen to these issues, and I think it will happen with this government if the health of the population is not put first. I have to say one more thing; it is clear to all of us that these reform transformations and transitions are painful; in their performances, above all, you Prime Minister, and of course by reputation of you and your ministers love figuratively to use various medical concepts to explain how it is something that is difficult, as if it were a shock therapy, so surgery without anesthesia and so on. I'm afraid this is the way we're headed right now, that there will be fewer and fewer options, because patients don't have enough resources to adequately treat themselves. Regardless of the pain of all these times that we are in, to transition and to reforms that are truly inevitable, just in health care nothing has been done in these sixteen months; unfortunately, no reform has been done. Now something's being made at the Ministry, about a draft of the medical chambers; and where's the health care, where's the health insurance? Don't forget that human disease hurts a lot more than any transition or any reform of this government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22221	The People's Messenger Miomir Ilic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of Rada Bajić. The SPS parliamentary group has a total of 7 minutes, with three registered speakers.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22222	Dear People's MPs, I cannot address the prime minister and ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia with --respected, because the government of the Republic of Serbia is not respecting us socialists and other MPs from the opposition, but I will just welcome them, and I think it's fair, as a former athlete. Why do I say that? This is why; in his opening statement on 26 January 2001, the prime minister used a sentence that I often use in my exhibitions, and it reads: "This government will be a government of speed, expeditionivity, a government that will not lie and will not steal." I don't want to talk about words at all - lying and stealing, but I want o-speed. Why is that speed? I would share this speed of our government in two sub-points: one is real speed, and the other is fast speed. The right speed is reflected in that, over a year and a half, in the first six months, our government has shown what the right speed is: it has done to a series of regulations what is in the power of the legislative authority i.e. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia; so, among other things, what is a fact, has arrested the former president of the SRJ and our President Slobodan Milosevic, which should serve her honor, but I think time will show that it will not; we will surely remember it, we will not return it, but in any case when we come back to power again, we will use it. The right speed is seen in disabling the legislative authority, which puts this assembly in a position, as it takes place this year and a half of Parliament's work, that it has been shown that the legislative authority is not in office at all, but has been taken over by the executive authority. The third, judicial authority, was also taken over by the executive authority. If that were the case, I could argue with a few facts about the laws that have now been passed. Let's just say, just a month ago, on May 23rd at a regular session, we passed the Ministry Act; in the Official Messenger, it was published, in article 31, the ministries are listed, see which ones are divided, and it certainly needs to be in this government reconstruction to get their ministers. That executive power is being taken over, is reflected in Article 32 of this law where it is said - Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government, Ministry of Protection of Natural Resources and the Environment and Ministry of Agriculture and Water Management. I would agree with MP Sheschel when he asked whether the Ministry of Justice and local self-government should be separated to appoint a minister of justice; I believe that there has been a breach of the legislative authority because here in the reconstruction of the Government, Article 32 paragraph 3), the Ministry of Agriculture and Water Management is not covered by a proposal for the appointment of a competent minister; this is a typical example of why it is the right speed and why it is being misused. Now let's go to point b, what's fast speed? She looks at that it's really fast; but the people say what's fast, it's also short. Here is another example: in the adoption of the Ministry Act, on a proposal from the DOS composed of DS MPs and other parties representing the ruling coalition, an amendment, with the support of the government, was adopted to form the Ministry of Agriculture and Water Management. In recent days, we have received a document from the Government of the Republic of Serbia that says that, already only after a month, it proposes to change, or return to the old state, what was once, which is the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management. I think that this is fast speed and that you who have proposed this, and especially the Minister of Agriculture, who should know that in the period since 1999, in the areas of Sava, Velika Morava, Mlava and Pec, Tamis, such floods have caused huge damage to the economy and citizenship, and that these damages exceed the revenues of municipalities' budgets and even the budget of the Republic of Serbia in relation to the development of agriculture, forestry and water economy; therefore, I think that this is too much speed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22223	The word has the People's MP Rada Bajic. The time for the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group is two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22224	Mr. President, Mr. Ministers, honourable Members of the People, there are two minutes left, but simply, to repeat that story -- when the ministers were established and elected by the Socialist Party of Serbia MPs, they made it clear that it is unacceptable to throw out certain ministries, such as the Ministry of Ecology, the merger of the Ministry of Sports with the Ministry of Education, and also to undermine local self-government under the Ministry of Justice. It is clear then that there was no Ministry of Ecology, that it should have been introduced; because, due to the destruction of our country, it has not been polluted in many places but poisoned and it was really necessary, had it not been, to introduce a new Ministry of Ecology, because such problems are that not only one ministry, as my colleague Zivodarka Dacin said, but two ministries would not have solved the consequences that were left behind. When we said it was unacceptable to drown the Ministry of Local Self-Government into the sea of the problems of the Ministry of Justice, we said it was a rigid, repressive form of the ministry and should be abolished as soon as possible. What a repressive form it took when it entered the Department of Justice you could all see for yourself. From this pay phone, we have indicated the introduction of temporary measures into 18 municipalities of local self-government, although these municipalities have worked by law, formed all bodies by law and regulation; they held regular sessions of the executive body and the assembly; however, led by crisis headquarters, which were mainly attended by troubled people who had no competences, the municipalities were abolished and the voter's will was lifted. Thus, the ministry of justice headed by its minister took over the repressive method and, unlike the previous one, turned completely against the purpose for which it was to be elected. It was realized that it was necessary to separate both, to form special ministries, and then I also advocated that the Ministry of Sports must be special. Some federal and republican states did something about top-notch sports, but when it comes to the most massive form of youth gathering, which is amateur and sports in small clubs, it's also left to the enthusiasts to lead those children. It's simply no concern of the state for that, and the Ministry of Education is burdened so much by its problems and so many shortages of funds that there's no time to think about sports. (President: three minutes, MP. ( ) Just one more sentence on the Ministry of Health. I would ask the Prime Minister why much has been expected to choose a minister; because, health homes are in an extremely difficult situation -- they are on the verge of existence, i.e. providing assistance, which is what they were founded for; many are excluded phones, have no funds, although the participation for medical examinations has been introduced... (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. Just wait for your time. I think it's been a long time and this segment is very derelict, and it's gonna be hard for the Minister of Health to make up for everything that's been missed.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22225	This is a exhausted list of speakers. Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate come forward for a word? The word is made by the Prime Minister, Mr. Zoran Djindjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22226	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this really, if I speak for the Government, refers to all the MPs, all the MPs' clubs, and I really think that there are a bit of an exaggeration about some kind of disturbed relationship between different types of government. What the parliamentary majority in the Republika Srpska Assembly brings in a vote is an expression of the will of the coalition that won the majority in the elections. That's not what the government does. The fact that members of the same coalition are present in the government is natural. In some countries, even the entire government is in parliament. For example, in the Federal Republic of Germany, almost all MPs in the United Kingdom are ministers at the same time, i.e. Almost all ministers are MPs at the same time. It is not about the separation of the two authorities, that they are against each other and that parliament is ashamed of the government or that the government is avoiding parliament. The point is that some people make laws, that others enforce laws, and that the judicial authority oversees the way the law is implemented. I think that in our country there are more problems in understanding this co-operation, obligations and mutual responsibilities than there are attempts or opportunities to influence each other in an illegal way; in so far as this government has not humiliated parliament, not MPs, but the parliamentary majority, in accordance with the decision of its coalition's political authorities that won the elections, has made certain proposals and they have been voted; thus protecting its political image and simply defining what it means to be part of the ruling coalition that won the elections. You can't be in a coalition that won the election and act like you went to elections as an independent opposition. I think it's good for political culture in our country as a whole and it's good for future situations, to watch out for anyone who goes to the coalition with whom he's going, so if he's not able and can't stand those coalition partners, then don't go with them. I don't think it has anything to do with the government and parliament's relationship. It's a matter of nature for all democracies. A lot of questions have been raised in these three or four hours, because the nature of things is when you talk about only one minister on the agenda and the government in general; I would like to answer most of these questions, even briefly or just comment on them, respecting everyone. So it doesn't matter that most of them don't refer to specific ministries, but surely the government is a whole and one ministry cannot be viewed separately from the government's work in general. So, there are several procedural questions about how the ministries are defined, why is the choice of self for some ministry, and not for another, with the idea that now, with the ministries that have been divided, the proposal is here for the other part, even the same minister. However, in Article 31. The ministry law is clearly stated which ministries continue to work and their work has been defined on the basis of these changes. It has been said that the ministry in the changed area continues to work with a changed name. This applies to the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Water and Forestry, so that according to the Ministry Act, it is not necessary now for all ministries to choose new ministers, as well as in the future if a ministry is separated and if the central section continues with certain powers. It is only necessary to define which powers are exempt from it and to hand over to a new ministry, and then a choice is being made for the new minister; of course, if the proposal has passed previously through parliament and become part of the Ministry Act. This isn't a government reconstruction. In fact, the reconstruction of the government in some legal sense doesn't exist. There is a choice of ministers and government members. The reconstruction is a political category envisioned in case within the ruling coalition there has been some agreement on new relations that could be called political reconstruction, but eventually a proposal to elect a number of ministers would come before parliament again if it were not for the majority and if not for all. I don't see these places of objection, it's not about reconstruction, it's about selecting a number of ministers; it's really about that. On the other hand, he objected that the government failed to fulfil its legal obligation and did not submit an annual report. All the ministries in all the relevant assembly committees, defined within a year, submitted reports and all these reports were voted on by the assembly committees. Whether it will be placed in general on a discussion in the Assembly, it depends on the president of the Assembly, and that probably depends on the Parliament's decision, but we have been the first government since the law, which has submitted a report within that deadline; each ministry has submitted the report, so that there is no objection in that case that the government does not have a correct relationship with parliament. One question referred to the vice-presidents of the government; then I will move on to another remark on the number of members of the government, the number of members of the vice-presidents and whether it is effective, whether it is expensive, more expensive than anything else in our country. The Vice-Presidents, under the very Law on Government and Rules of Procedure, are not and do not have their powers previously defined, so that it is necessary to say what the vice-president will really be responsible for, unlike the ministries that have their own defined competence. In this case, Mr. Mile Isakov should primarily be in charge of harmonising a new package of media laws with other regulations and laws that exist in our country; it is expected at the next session, in June or July, the adoption of laws on broadcasting and telecommunications, which seriously alter the way in which we regulate the situation in our media. I thought it would take one vice president to do just that, so that this new package of laws will be brought into line with a whole series of other relationships that exist, and they are related to the old way of editing that area; it will primarily be his function, along with some others, as other vice presidents have received certain functions, along with others who then carry out them. That's the first thing about formal objection. I think I answered them. Secondly, the government proposed this item of the agenda and requested an emergency session; however, since the previous DOS parliamentary group had a request for an emergency session, this was attached. Of course, the government is the initiator of this proposal, and it is not a parliamentary group, but this is an emergency meeting scheduled at the request of the DOS parliamentary group; I do not think it is that important. The question arises of the size of the government, its efficiency, the intention of the ministers and their profile. I can say that most ministers are not political activists, that they are chosen as people who understand work and can do what is necessary and are not chosen in any inter-party arrangement. So I expect them, as well as most of the ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to act as professionals, in accordance with the law and with the programme adopted by this assembly as a government programme. This way, with so many changes and redeployed, this government has 25 members, if I haven't miscounted. The previous government of Mirko Marjanovic had 35 members. So those who resented that this is a large government and are sitting here, they supported the concept of the previous government, which is, of course, their political right. The previous government has indeed had far more members than this one has. She was much more expensive, of course. I have data here, but maybe it was in the past tense and I wouldn't want to brag about how cheaper we are than some expensive previous government; we've already been instructed several times. There are some, not in this session today, who resent that this is one of the largest and most expensive governments in the world. On the Internet I tried to find the costs of governments in Europe and in the region: this is the cheapest government of all whose expenses I could find. So, maybe someone can find a government that spends less, but this government spends the least on the head of the population than anyone I could find. If we compare the institutions on our internal stage, I can say that the budget for the president of the SRJ is almost half the budget for the entire government, with its 25 members. So much for saving in our country in general. So let's get this question off the agenda. There are a whole series of concrete topics - in the end I will return to the most painful ones, which is economics, unemployment, pensions, crime, social situation, wages, etc. - and now about a few short remarks. Someone said there's fear here; it's proof that people, though difficult, don't dare protest; so there's a lack of protest and demonstration of evidence that there's fear here. My impression is that the greatest fear of that principle is the government in Sweden and Switzerland, because there are least protests there. How much they fear their authorities when they can't protest, because they almost never protest. The second question was about the election; it is natural in the world that the opposition always wants elections. When we were opposition, we wanted elections. Of course, who about what, the opposition about the election. I understand, that's how it is everywhere in the world and in our country, choices are avoided by those who have something to lose. But I don't understand why in our country the most wanted by those who have no chance in the election and have nothing to gain; that's a little unusual. Then the question arises as to what it means to control RTS; indeed, I also said at this inaugural cabinet session, that if a minister or someone from the government calls the court, police or state television to intervene -- he can call to ask for a case, a certain case -- but if he interferes in some court, police case and in editing a diary, he will be fired, replaced. [[Applause]] So far, I have a variety of complaints, stories -- the government is influencing; but there is not one single case that someone said: this and that minister or that and that deputy called the court, the television, the police, asked for some news to be thrown out or thrown in. So, in that sense, they're independent. It's our program. It's not some emergency we've accepted because we can't influence her. And to settle that, we chose a board of directors that really consists of independent people. None of them are members, or activists of any party. They, like radio and television, do their job professionally, according to our assessment. They managed to, from, I don't know, 12% of the ratings they found on October 5th to raise to 30% of the viewer's ratings, as it is today; it's a very high percentage of ratings and can be measured with other world televisions that have very high ratings. Serbian citizens want to watch the diary; and on that diary, believe me, there are often comments about the work of the government that I am not satisfied with. I am not pleased when last night in the middle of that diary, without the possibility of the other party saying something, such as the Ministry of Social Affairs, let the NGO say: there is a worse social situation than during Milosevic. On which basis, based on which data, based on which research was made, such an impression. Maybe he's worse. During Milosevic, he was getting money from various foreign states to be an NGO, and now he's not getting it, and now he's getting worse. Whether it's objective when the state diary releases the news; though, I say, it's their right; if this issue hadn't been raised, I certainly wouldn't have mentioned it now, nor would I have started it publicly. Like you, every night I have objections; I would like my work and the work of the government to be respected more, as you would like your activities to be monitored more. Everyone from your corner must be right somewhere. I think that this balanced injustice that we all suffer now is better than that one-sided justice, where only one was satisfied, and all the others were dissatisfied. We will have, you will vote on this very quickly, a European law on broadcasting, which will serve as a public service for RTS, where the Serbian Parliament will elect a regulatory body, composed of representatives of the most important institutions of our country and of our society -- will be two candidates from each of these institutions. This regulatory body will also be responsible for the RTS programme and, practically, the government will not have any influence; I think it is a good solution. I hope we can get that issue out of the agenda. We have several very concrete comments on scholarships, on health care. School fees are actually minimal for all who meet the conditions of the college for regular study. These, these scholarships, are defined by the Government, and they are really minimal; these high-level scholarships that have concerned people refer to potential students, who have not met these conditions; we need to be aware that colleges are very burdened, that they can hardly meet, and especially these technical, study standards. If you look at medicine, engineering sciences, there are labs, real costs -- we're not able to isolate so much from the budget, that anyone who wants to study, and not meet the conditions of the admission exam, could study under the same conditions. Of course, it shouldn't be a shock; now from misreading that practice, if you're not enrolled in college, you're not a full citizen of this country, we don't have to go to another country and say: studying isn't so important. Yesterday I read some statistics, again mentioning Switzerland, it's a country with the least academic citizens in Europe, but with the largest gross-social product per capita. So, Switzerland has the least people who study and the richest citizens, because they do other jobs. You can't have these people, of course, from today to tomorrow to reorient, but you need to gradually direct people and say: studying is not the only thing to earn bread, to do what God created you for, but there are some other professions and they are just as important as these academics. Anyway, what's published as some tariffs and taxes, that's a thing for further alignment. Certainly, we, as the Serbian Government, will try to find some measure with colleges. Otherwise, it was a college decision; the government had no influence on it. There have been concrete remarks concerning health care; I agree, healthcare is also one of the most endangered social systems, especially in transition countries. The adoption of the health care law is one of the most sensitive things, because it needs to regulate the rights in line with the opportunities of the economy. We have an obvious case of rights being inherited by far richer economies and now there is no possibility of real implementation in a much poorer economy. From this arises confusion, it leads to the fact that neither the rights that could be financed are implemented; since the situation is in heaven or on earth, there are nominal rights for which it is clear that they cannot be realised, then some people for basic health rights demand additional money. Is that called corruption, a racket? Whatever it's called, it's the state of the mess in our system. We're gonna try to get some order in this summer. The government has allocated no means to establish a mandatory healthcare network in Serbia. I think at the end of this year the state of health will be much better than at first. But it won't be ideal and many people won't be able to satisfy what they think is their right, because that right has no more to fund. Now we come to the hardest part, which is the course of funding; how long is our leper and how long we can stretch as a people; are we on a bad or on a good path; who measures and how; how should we live to live in harmony with reality, with our productivity, with the state of our economy and to be satisfied. So you can imagine anything. Since we humans are inventive, in terms of awareness at the level of Europe, but it is a question of whether what we imagine is real; whether the economy is also a matter of agreement, of settlement, of voting in Parliament or something much deeper than that, which cannot be changed by political decisions. Is October 5th, by changing the political system, changing the economic system? Not only is it not, it couldn't have happened. October 5th is happening in the economy every day: every day since October 5th, so five, six or seven years has had to take a great mobilization of forces and people to get the economy out of that disaster, in which it has been pushed not only in the last ten years, but in the last 20 years. I said that once in this House -- the first stand-by arrangement with the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund was signed in 1982; it was the first day that we as a country said we couldn't return the capital, but we only returned interest; in 1990 we signed a decision not to return no interest. Practically, we were a country beyond all financial world systems. It was a voluntary declaration of the country's bankruptcy. This means that for 20 years, the insolvency of this economy, caused by many reasons: not only for poor governments, but also for many international circumstances, the way this entire region is treated in the world and many other international events. But those are real facts. Now we can't just close our eyes and say, what do we care that ten thousand days before that thing went one way, we want you to pull it out in 100 or 1,000 days, as long as you're here? It's just not possible. I'd like to hear what we need to do instead of impossible; what we're not, and we could have done in this year so that, with the real situation that we've found, we can achieve our goal better and faster, and that's to get out of that economic crisis as soon as possible. Someone says you promised me a mid-European salary a year and a half ago. That's not true. That must be a misunderstanding. The moment we came as a coalition, which is two months before the government was formed, the average salary in our country was 70 German marks, and the average gross social product per capita was $1,150. By comparison, the average gross social product per capita in Iraq is twice as large, in Slovenia it is 10 times larger, in Hungary it is seven times larger, in Romania and Bulgaria it was two and a half times larger. So it was a real situation. The gross social product is not to sell Telecom and share salaries, win elections, and then spend those salaries, but rather the ability of the economy to produce something. The ability of the economy is divided into thousands and thousands of enterprises, thousands of organizations that support these enterprises, thousands of social systems -- education, health care. It doesn't come overnight and pumping money on the side. Bosnia got six billion dollars and no more dollars in Bosnia. So it went through desert sand because there were no economic structures to keep that money, to keep it in the economy, to stay in the system and to increase. Only 1,000 dollars each to get, in order to have $2,250, and Iraq has 2,400, we need $10 billion. If someone wanted to give us 10 billion dollars, that would only mean double our gross social product, which would not have reached Iraq in that one year. The next year, it's gone. Then we'd get used to having someone give us now, and that's not good. I think the story of how we need a lot more money on the side isn't good, because we don't have the structure of the economy in our country that can use that money without it turning into a habit of being supported, being a patient on machines. We must put our country on its feet. She's struggling now, we're all struggling together, but when she gets on her feet, she'll go on her own. We don't need crutches, because then those crutches can cost a lot in the future. The one who gives you five billion dollars on his terms, he certainly doesn't give it to you in a good way. That doesn't even lead to the healing of the country. As much as the donations and loans we're taking now, it's some measure that's not small and shouldn't be bigger. We make very careful priorities in taking credit and only take them for infrastructure. There's no way we're getting some pay credit. Half of Serbia can strike, they can't pay out of the budget, out of donations. The donations can only remont the electricity, repair the roads and possibly go to health care and school; in facilities, not for wages. This is the basic principle of sound economic policy. Someone says it's imposed by the IMF. Okay, if the IMF says it's gonna be Wednesday tomorrow and we know it's gonna be, should we say, since it's imposed by the IMF, it's not Wednesday. No, there are some things about the IMF's access that are fine. These are: budgetary discipline, deficit reduction, gradual liberalisation of prices; so that there are no subsidized branches, which then cannot be adapted tomorrow to the real market and to the real atmosphere in the economy, but are constantly supported. It's okay. So it's not that this therapy that the IMF prescribes is wrong; it's unilateral. There is no doubt about our disputes with the IMF is known both in the world and in the IMF; we have certain reserves, our own approach; this approach is respected and the IMF in our country does not implement any of its policies. We conduct politics, separating what we think is universal and good, and that's financial discipline -- so spend as much as you can produce; don't subsidize what we can't stay and let everyone get for their product a real price, so we have market relations; so that the state doesn't now decide which industrial branch will be worse, because it will be subsidized, which will sink because it has unfair competition. I don't think there's any reason for us to have any idea of evil forces and conspiracy against our country, because in these last few years, the collapse of the blocks has established an expert consciousness at the level of the world. It's no longer so ideologically one-sided, so if it comes from the Western hemisphere, then they have some interests, some of their own from the east. No, there is now both in the World Bank and the IMF, and with representatives of Russia and other countries one specific approach, a set of instructions and standards that apply to the world economy as such. Since we want to be part of the world economy, we want to apply all of this as soon as possible and get out of any international financial organization's intervention zone, that we don't need loans under that favourable status; although they're very good, because they're 30 years old and because they're interest-free, and only inflation at the world level is a quarter of those loans to eat. But we want us not to be a country treated as poor and getting loans under such conditions. There's so much reason to open the front line, where it's not there. We have many other problems in the world -- containing, their demands and various other conditions -- but compared to the IMF and the World Bank, we have a very correct relationship. Now comes the subject, also listed here three or four times, which upsets me very much, which is the independence of the judiciary; what does independence of the judiciary mean? Can we in the same breath complain that some perpetrator, who was caught with a weapon, has been proven to have committed an act, defends himself from freedom, and then we say - but we need to stop putting pressure on the judiciary; so I guess the judiciary let it defend itself from freedom, the government didn't let it go. I think we must here, and you as legislative, and we as executive authority, clearly define the criteria of efficiency: in the way laws are passed, in law enforcement, but also in the functioning of judicial authorities. No one can be out of responsibility in this country, because these judges are paid out of the budget. You bring the budget here; so they are responsible for both you and the citizens of Serbia. There is statistical data that in one of the most risky areas of Serbia, which is part of Belgrade, in 1977, the percentage of prison sentences was 65% -- when you could open the door or get out of the car without locking them up and nobody stealing them from you -- and today is 16%; that means there are three times fewer thieves who deserve to go to jail, but 20 years ago. Can you believe that? I don't believe it. If you find that people, caught smuggling a kilo of heroin, get a year in prison, and that's what they'd get life in America, 20 years in Europe, and then after six months they let them go for good governance -- is that the efficiency of the judiciary; I don't think so. Are they independent? Of you, of us, Serbian citizens are independent; whether they are independent of those interest groups that are related to this type of crime, I don't know. But if you look at that of the 500 convictions that were passed last year for the works of heavy drugs, there were 250 paroles, and 250 prisons, the biggest prison sentence was a year, and you had three or four kilos of cocaine, a kilo of heroin, I'm worried about this country and all the government and parliament's activities to counter organized crime. Because drug-crime funds all other organized crime. I stress the problem of criminal policy, not to say - condemning it with a kilo of heroin, but asking the question - is it possible that only in our country are drug addicts lost souls, that society is wrong that they are drug dealers and that there is evidence for all of them that they wanted to use it themselves, so it's an extenuating circumstance. I don't agree with that, and I'm going to ask for the right explanation. Regardless of the organised lobby of the judiciary, I think these citizens, this government, have the right to receive an answer to the question of the efficiency of the judiciary. I don't think it's a interference in the work of an independent judiciary; it's a replacement of thesis. We're talking efficiency here, we're not getting involved in the decision itself. So this topic, for now, to get off the agenda, but of course, we'll deal with it both in June and July. To answer the question -- what did I mean when I said July; I expect some progress to happen here in July on this subject. Major crimes, that means armed robbery, that means heavy drugs, that means kidnappings, they can't be treated as the most harmless crimes, for which parole is imposed. I expect the judiciary to understand that we are living in a period where there is a danger of the spread of organised crime and that there is a consensus in this country of all parties in parliament that organised crime should be contained; it is neither party, nor ideological, nor any other idea, but in the interests of this country as a whole. If the independent judiciary, whose independence I respect, doesn't understand it, I think this parliament will have work to do in the fall, to find a cure for it; or to hand over the battle, to raise its hands and say -- in this country, the criminals have won the drug race. I don't think that's going to happen, and I hope that the judges, a lot of them, will support this, in the next month really show that they have understood the request of most Serbian citizens. We now have that last block, which had the most comments and objections, and that was -- there was no business activity, there was no production movement, there was great unemployment, there were threats of layoffs, there were rising prices, the situation in the social sphere was never worse, pensions are getting smaller; these are about those objections that were being referred to. Now, there are two or three inherited misunderstandings. One is - what it means to start production. With us starting production became a slogan that is always positive, because we are a working country and we had this ideology that production was very good. However, profits are accounted for in the economy. Production that doesn't bring profit leads to bankruptcy. It is, unfortunately, the fact of economic life and it has not been respected for 50 or 60 years. It is not appreciated because production has always been financed in part and on the side, from something that was not profit from production, so large factories were created; where there was no basis for it, business branches that were not competitive were employed, people where there was no reason for it; from 1945 until some time ago it was happening, because because of the geo-political relations in the world, because of some other dynamics of that society we could actually invest enough to cover its costs. So the other day I read that the United States gave more financial aid to Tito than to all of South America from its 350 million inhabitants; and there the Americans had Brazil, Argentina, Colombia, strange countries, hard countries, on their doorstep. To them it was so important, Tito, to keep it between the East and the West, that they invested for 20 years, I didn't find the data as much, but since it's more than for all of Latin America, it means a lot. Of course, part of that money, perhaps the biggest, went to the economy, to raise new facilities, new capacities, to start production, but this raises the basic question -- was it from the point of view of the world market, where we should sell it, was that justified? And then at the end of the month, at the end of the month, you draw the line, so you see -- did the rock one euro, the dollar, or the money you invested, get enough to get it back, pay the cost of capital and earn something? If you are not, then it is not good production; it is not production by itself ideal, but an economy competitive on the world market, whose products can be sold, which can bring profit and from and you get then you can make health care, education, pensions or whatever your social priorities are. Unfortunately, in our country, there's not a lot of such an economy, that you can give calmly and say -- it's just a problem in money, and otherwise, if we had money, they could produce, pay back money and make some money. Fortunately, there is a part of such an economy, but it is not a major part of the Serbian economy. One part of the Serbian economy is still shackled with old chains, where it's thought to be -- give credit, which we won't return, and in return we'll start production, whose products we'll put in storage or sell below the price; and we won't count on the real price of electricity, transportation, contributions; we won't make contributions to pension and health insurance, we'll do all that somewhere and we'll say -- here, we could produce, why the government won't give us money. We'd better split their money without them producing, because they're making losses. Now the question -- and whose money to share with them; the American -- there's no more American money; we're destroying infrastructure and substance, like Milosevic did for 10 years, by actually reducing the value of social capital and everything that exists in the country, and then buying peace with fake money. Where does that lead? So, taxpayers' money, real money for real people. Do we have the right to take real money from real people and to give to someone who doesn't actually produce, but to lose? Who can do that, stand in front of the people and say, "I'm taking you through traffic tax, somebody there goes to the factory and pretends to have a job?" It's a real situation of our economy today. What is the solution? To facilitate the financing of those parts of the profit-making business; fortunately, there are plenty of them. Last year, between May 2001 and May 2002, around 400 million German marks of real domestic investment were realised through the government and the Development Fund. I heard the other day from the World Bank that 300 million foreign direct investments were invested. This means that about 700 million marks of direct investment over the course of the year have entered a part of the economy that can repay that money. That's not enough. A few months ago, I said, by our estimates, we need two billion dollars of clean investment a year to raise our capacity according to the size of the country and population. But that's a start. There's a healthy part of the economy, and it's not bad for him. Otherwise, Serbia's average salary could not reach about 300 German marks. Of course, someone's 20, 30 or 50, but the other one's got it up to 300. I know several factories where the average salary is 800 to 900 marks. So it's not exactly like that -- it's all going down, there's no perspective. It's just that we found a part of the economy that isn't worth investing in because it's a waste. That's our citizens' money. Let's try to restructure these companies, get them in a position to use money to start business, not pay, and then show up in front of this or another government tomorrow. The main issue of all reforms is how these capacities, human and business, buildings and machines, are torn from this old economy that cannot survive and transfer to a healthy economy. If that was simply a question, the transition wouldn't be painful in any country; if you could get points there, those governments would get a Nobel Prize. No government that conducted the transition remained in any country. That's no problem for us. We're not here to be re-elected. We're here to do a job: bring this country a step closer to Europe. That's what I said several times -- there are unpopular or unsuccessful reforms. There are no popular, but successful reforms. Because if the situation were good, then it shouldn't be reformed; if you didn't have to cut anywhere, then the situation wouldn't be bad; it's just that it's just that it's just that it's just going to be going from one side to the other, what's going on in England, Sweden, under the reform company is just, in fact, redesigning the system, redistribution. Reforms are when you have to cut where it hurts. Whoever wants to be popular in the reform block is a hypocrite. So today those who have credibility in the people need to tell them the truth about the condition and the path that we have to cross, because the people will believe it if they tell him the people they believe in. And if the people they trust want to be popular with it and say no, it doesn't cost anything, we're for reform, but it doesn't hurt; we're to move, but to be carried on our backs; it's not right. We have a lot of problems with reforms because our citizens are confused because they hear controversial messages from different sides. Some tell them: it's the sea, it can't be simpler, we're still going as well as others. And another: - whatever, it could go faster, it could be easier, better, cheaper. They just don't say how. Let them tell us how, and we'll discuss it here. And who's going to finance it? If they find out who's going to finance it and eventually lead to the healing of this society and these industries, then why should we be against it. But I'm afraid there's no answer to the question -- how, but that there's some demagogy and pulsism. As for this data where we are and how we stand, there have been a lot of complaints that the situation is very bad, now I'm going to tell you that we are at an average salary level of 280 to 300 marks or 134 euros in SRJ. When we took office as Government on January 31st, the countries in the environment directly ahead were Romania and Bulgaria, which had a double standard of living than we did. Today in Bulgaria, in May, the average salary of 135 euros, in Romania 132, in Yugoslavia is 134. So, in a year's time, we arrived two countries that were twice as far away. We can't reach Slovenia, because it's not that simple. But if we say we have a direction, then there's no doubt that we have him and that he's ahead. We didn't fall behind a single country according to the condition that we found; we didn't go anywhere to minus, we went everywhere to plus. Of course, somewhere not enough, somewhere we'd like it to be more. But again, the question arises -- what means, what way and how to keep it permanent, and not just to temporarily pump up some unhealthy money and disappoint people when that money goes away. Our inflation today is less than in all the former countries of socialism; only Slovenia is better with 0.3% per month, with us 0.4% per month. All others, Croatia, Bosnia, Romania, Bulgaria, Ukraine, Russia, go over 1% per month. So we did it in an important sector. That means, don't print the money, no matter how much they push you. We were able to maintain discipline. It's painful, of course, but it creates a healthy basis for later. Because if you don't have healthy money, then he, like blood, sick all the organs; our problem was that every government used to give in; when she had problems, she said, let's give in to this one -- we'll print the money. I'm sorry about the raspberries, but the government can't buy raspberries. I feel for tomatoes producers, but the government can't determine the price of tomatoes. The government can't be a cash register that intervenes on the market. It's a reality that all our citizens must get used to. We don't have enough money to intervene as many other countries, to support subsidies. The United States gives a billion dollars a day to subsidize agriculture. But they can. Their agricultural products can be even cheaper than ours. We need to find a mechanism to partially preserve our market. It's a very complicated thing, you have to understand, in everyday life, producers in our country, after many years, even decades, have been discriminated against by their competitors from other countries, because they couldn't invest in technology, in development, and therefore their products are a little more uncompetitive and expensive. If we say - we will protect consumers, and then we will import oil from Hungary, or meat from Romania as some ask, then it may happen that someone's subsidized products, because they started 10 years ago and they can subsidize a little bit more, bring it into our market and destroy our industry. It's one danger. Another danger - our safeguard prices and levies can lead to our industry not going fast enough to restructure because it has a monopoly position; that's what we have today. When someone says we have much higher prices than we should, it's because part of our industry has a monopoly position, because we protect them. But we protect them not because they have a monopoly position, but to give them time to recover and to have a national industry of milk, meat, processing and that's one complicated thing. We can't order them -- modernize; or -- don't share wages, but invest in machines. But we can gradually, as a society, a local community, through you who have influence in these environments, tell them -- another year, two or three, you have time; if by then you do nothing in your production, we will have to open the market for cheaper products, because citizens can't be hostages to any branch of our industry. The same MPs here first say -- the prices are high; and then, because we don't introduce protection duties for some products, why we get cheap products. He can't do both. If you want to protect your industry, then you only protect it from cheaper products on the side. Then you must agree to a slightly higher price. It is in the national interest, because we need our industry to be able to be competitive. We can't let cheap foreign products destroy our industry, so tomorrow they raise our prices and tell us -- since you don't have a food processing industry anymore, now we're going to raise your prices. But it's a much more complicated process than they say - the prices are high, the wages are low, the government is bad. If we talk about liberalized prices, they are the most relevant to municipal services and food. But these are our domestic products; that doesn't apply to Mercedeses, to "sony" televisions, which some Japanese will charge and take away. This refers to our municipalities, which for 10-20 years subsidized heating, water and everything else, so they sank because they couldn't even get a minimum economic price out of it. This relates to our agricultural producers, who for 10 years were the Ministry of Social Policy, so now that these prices are rising, they are being obtained by our citizens, and the money is being paid by producers. You can't separate it and say, as an EPS worker, I want to have free electricity, but I want a big salary. You can't because you're a citizen of a country. We are all mixed, both consumers and producers. When you have an average of about 300 marks in Serbia today, even if all that money was spent as two years ago on the same products, that means that someone in our country actually got that money, that's hundreds of thousands of people -- producers; they're going to invest that money probably in production because it's being paid back. It's the gradual healing of our country. Unemployment - I can swear on the Bible here - no one who has a job will lose it; no one. And the fact that some people are not told that in 1992 and 1993 they lost their jobs, so they think they have a job, and they only have a job, it's really not my fault. We can continue with the illusion and say -- all people who have jobs in all systems and factories will remain there, regardless of whether they produce anything, whether they create anything. But it's expensive; it's much more expensive than telling people the truth in the eyes -- there's a number of jobs behind which there's no job, but there's a certain right behind it. Our economy has dropped 50% from 1990 to 1993; therefore, our country's product has fallen by 50% in those three years. The 1992 Law, which passed this assembly, which I was an MP, prohibited the dismissal of people as long as sanctions persisted, and I don't know what, isolation or war, as it was then called, so that the reduction of production and economic capacities did not follow the natural reduction of the number of employees, but remained disproportionate. Now, when we really need to finance all of this, when there's no more hyperinflation as a way to finance all of it, the question is: is the part that really works and manufactures really going to fund that illusion that all these people who have jobs are economically useful at the same time? Why would we do that? I like facts, even if they're unpleasant. So if that's true, and it is, let's put it together -- that's our national problem. It's not my problem, because I didn't create it; it's not your problem, and you didn't create it. Let's say -- it wasn't created by this party or that party; it's simply the consequence of the whole web of circumstances. Today in our country, I don't know how many, maybe three hundred thousand or more than one hundred thousand people are actually today, while we're talking about this, don't create excess values, and their salary is being financed and it's some of our other citizens. We don't have the right to do that distribution. We can pass a law on that, so let's make a statement there and say -- we want a part of the people to finance from the budget, although it's not any found and acquired rights and it's a very difficult decision; I think citizens who pay their taxes and contribute would say, "I'm sorry, and why don't they work somewhere?" It is said that there are 800,000 unemployed, and 200,000 in the past year have arisen; that is not true; this is the first one, and this second is not true. It is true that we have about a similar number of unemployed over the last few years and that is between 770,000 and 800,000, but it is true that from May 2001 to May 2002 we have 180,000 open jobs that are not being filled because people do not work in these jobs. So, from the City Greenery in Belgrade, where 250 marks are paid, you cut bushes and arrange parks, to the location of a pharmaceutical technologist in Galenica, who needs 100 or 200, where the salary is 700 marks and where no one is employed. So there is unemployment, a grey economy, a market inflexibility problem, a housing problem; there are no doctors in Bor, and in some other place there are five doctors more than necessary; but to pay for the Bor apartment and to live there is not enough pay for it. There are indeed these disturbances in our labour market, but it is not true that there is now a larger wave of layoff, loss of jobs, closes a good economy, doesn't bother the government. I don't think that's true. As for the economy, last year we had real growth according to international standards between 5% and 7%, and that difference between 5% and 7% refers to a grey economy that wasn't recorded; let's say, in construction we have a registered decline, and in the sale of construction materials, a registered increase, from which we conclude that this decline is not quite real, but probably not reported in the industry. We estimate that there was real growth between 5% and 7% in our economy and we are the only country that in the first year of transition records growth. No other country, including Slovenia, has seen growth; it has had two or three years of decline, and some have now fallen, like Russia. The Czech Republic is still below its 1990 level, and these others returned to 1990 level. They had a three or four year drop at first, so about 1995, slight growth, and stable growth in 1998 and 1999. We have succeeded, along with all the crowds we have with Yugoslavia and The Hague, with this and that of the World Bank and the Paris Club, to prevent this recession, forced for all the countries that change the system. This year we may have 4 or 5%, hopefully a little bit more, but that means that we're a second-year, second-year thinkers on the side, heading towards their stable growth and development. It's up to me -- pensions; for farmers, ordinary, all kinds of pensions, I've recorded it somewhere, we're out of the budget, we're out of 46 billion dinars. Pensions should be paid out of pension contributions. We are a relatively old population, 38 years old is the average age in Serbia. When some other countries started to develop, say Singapore, Ireland, they had an average of 20 - 22 years old, which means little pensioners, little health care expenditure, a vital people who wanted to work and fight. We want the same goals with a much older population, and the number of people who pay pension contributions is much less than the number of people who use pensions. Since we think it's acquired and primary law, where people have invested for 30 or 40 years, it's not their fault someone spent it, we think it should be paid out of the budget. We don't think we need subsidies for the economy to go out of the budget, because they're people who can work, but pension subsidies should go out of the budget and that's a huge 46 billion dinar, almost half of the total pension fund. I think that's what we should continue. It's probably not according to the law or any of the world's economic systems, and of course we're having problems with the IMF. But I think it's a question of the social solidarity and social credibility of this country whether we're going to give people who've worked their lives honestly to retire or say, because you can't rebel, you don't have a party, you're out of our priority. The question of how to calculate pensions; we were the only country in Europe that had a direct bonding of pensions for salary growth. All other countries have a combined mechanism and with us now combines: 50% binds to salary growth and 50% to low cost growth and that is a normal mechanism. Given the huge amount from the budget, which means from the citizens' taxes, we're out for pensions, we can't go any different. For agricultural pensions, 2.4 billion dinars per year are allocated; it does not pay a little more taxpayers now to make it all and later, than Serbian citizens add for that. There are far fewer people who pay than those who receive, and that is a question that we will have to solve systematically; I hope that the economy will be more active, which is going to make more people out of gray into the legal economy and pay contributions; by filling in the pension fund so as not to finance from the budget. It was said that the social situation was unsustainable and that it was never worse; I heard it on the diary last night, and I was really upset; because, look, we paid back all the debts in the fields of children, social, martial and disability protection in a year, and that cost us 257 million dinars. In total, we singled out 39.2 billion dinars for the area of social protection from May 2001 to May 2002; so almost as for all pensions. I am truly sorry that the Ministry of Social Affairs actually replaced the Ministry of Economy, because the only real social programme is a successful economy. If you have an economy that can give people a job, then it can also give taxes, then from those taxes you can finance those who fail to find a job. But if you don't have an economy where there's decent employment, you can't say there's a social programme in that country; someone has to finance it, too. If you don't have an economy that drives this momentum, like most countries, we don't have a transition, then we have to concentrate on these social cases that are really pronounced. I'm not saying anyone who thinks he's sick and who's really bad can go to some counter and get some money. That would be nice, but it's not real. There's a question of the social map. We haven't found any databases to determine which families are at risk. We've been trying to figure that out for a year. If we had a precise social map of the population in Serbia, where it would be said that there are 300,000 families, that we know exactly that they live below the level of existential minimum, we would find many more ways to help them. However, in a state of gray economy, someone has 100 dinars a month, and earns another 50,000 in the flea market, and someone else has 5,000 or 10,000, has no other source and sends three children to school; this other one is socially endangered, but if you use official data, you will give this one first, and you will not make a mistake in both cases. You can't give it to each other, because you'd give it to most of the population and you don't have it. It's a terrible job that I hope we end up with a census and large polls that have been going on lately. These actions can lead to a much better situation in the allocation of as much resources as we can realistically collect from taxes and various other budget revenues. The last question, the perspective; whether we're on the right track, whether we're on the wrong track, whether this government has or doesn't have a vision. This government has a very clear vision and will, and it is that this country is competitive, that it can defend its interests by being strong enough; it means that its economy, its society, will be comparable to modern societies; it will not be on the arm, on the agitation, on campaigns, on everyone, so when we come across the obstacle, let's all go back, rather than be a country that will have real power contained in its economy, in its society, in its culture, in its values, in our education- it's our vision and our way. Since the European Union is one place where these standards are now concrete, we want to move towards it. Not to be a member at all costs, but to be comparable and to say at some point - we have institutions, economies, living standards similar to in some European Union countries, as in Greece, as in Portugal, as in Hungary, and that is our goal. That goal is very simple, and I don't think it needs to be repeated every day to make some people realize it's our goal. If someone in our public, some analysts who have doctored socialism and self-government, and now they understand nothing else, it should be explained every day that from their institutes and NGOs they could understand what politics is, I'm very sorry, but it's neither mine nor your business. This government has a clear concept of the way, and that's where it's headed. After a long series of decades, I can tell you with great certainty that for the first time the earth is moving in a clear direction. I think that direction, the direction I've just pointed out, is correct. Someone may have some other idea about it, but no one can say that direction is not clear. We have been wandering since 1914, 1915, 1918 between Scylla and Haribdi, between various ideologies, between various international positions; for the first time we have a clear direction and we are moving towards a specific goal. I have the impression that there is a consensus in our people about it and that no one disputes it. There is, of course, a question of how fast we're going. Personally, I'm not satisfied with the speed. Someone says it's too fast. It's not too fast, it's slow, and a lot of things that could be done by hiring people aren't done well. It's just that a lot of people are waiting for someone else to do it; they think that observers are in a game where they play themselves; they think that the kibitzers are where they should make their own move. It is not possible to implement reforms in a relatively large country without the engagement of a large number of people. Currently, there are not enough people involved in our country, from farming cooperatives, small property and small factories, to EPS and large systems; even to some ministries and their services, found and inherited, where they think Saturday and Sunday are unworkable days, that they are not working on holiday. Yes, if you are not in government; yes, if you are not in a position; but, then don't be in the Serbian Government. In the Serbian government, it is done every day; of course, it is not easy to explain to people, a large number of people will not accept it and that is why we are not going fast enough; but, to go in good faith, I am sure of it. What we watched in this country for years was a sale of the future. It was spent a day to buy something, at the cost of making compromises at a lower and lower level in a year or two. What we have to do now is invest resolutely in the future. When you say investment, then it means we can't share and spend everything we make, because investment is investment and that's, of course, painful. We make very little and we make money as an economy, and if it takes 10 billion dinars to invest in EPS, 20 billion dinars in roads, it hurts. All that can be divided into wages and elections can be won on that. And what after that? We could say -- let's go elections in six months, and instead of investing those 30 billion dinars in Electro-price and Roads, we'll raise the wages; then 500, 600, 700 thousand people will have twice as many salaries as they have now, and they'll say -- well, here comes Tito's time again. That's not good. We have to discipline ourselves and say, this is, despite everything we've been through and still, the time of sacrifice. I know it's hard for people, that they're tired, that the batteries are drained, that they'd like no one to disturb them, and I don't want them to move them; that they don't ask them to work, that they're fighting, because it's natural after these 10 years; but if as citizens, as a political option, we're going to lose a unique historical opportunity, which, in 20 years' time, we're going to find one way to cross, one shortcut to Europe; this is a rare historical opportunity for that. We've had several times in history, first of all in the early 20th century, that opportunity and we haven't taken advantage of it; then there were forces outside our country, international relations, wars that we didn't start; we could say, and today we can, that others are guilty of us sitting in this position. Today is the first time we've had a chance and we're the only ones responsible. If we miss it, it's all our fault. I don't know who's supposed to take on that responsibility and say, "I'm going to make compromises, court public opinion, get a little popularity, but I know what we're wasting the future of this country." I'm not the one and this government isn't. We will be determined to do what we've done so far, aware that there are many mistakes and inexperiences, but also that it's not a government programme, that we haven't invented it, and that there's not much wisdom in that program to come up with. The thing is, you have the determination to carry it out, and he writes it in books. There are thousands of books about it, and everybody knows it. I think all parties know that. Whoever reads those books will know how to perform surgery in one country, but the question is whether you have enough determination to do so and take responsibility for yourself. We have enough determination to do so, and I am sure this country will look much better after the term of office of this government is over as soon as this government has taken office. That's why I suggest you vote for the ministers I suggested.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22227	I'm setting a break by 4:15. They have the right to take part in the debate by other members of parliament groups and Mr. Borislav Pelevic reported. If you don't mind, let's listen to Mr. Pelevic and conclude a search on this agenda point. After the break.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22228	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please insert identification cards into your MPs to determine the quorum. I find that we have a quorum and we can continue to work on the government's proposal to elect a number of members of the government. Whether the Presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, who have not used this right under Article 89, want the word. Rules of Procedure? Yeah. Please, the word has been made by MP Borislav Pelevic, an authorised representative of the Soviet Parliament group, another announcement.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22229	Dear citizens of Serbia, the Honorable Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, the Prime Minister of Serbia spoke for an hour and five minutes about the government's proposal to supplement members of the government, but only in the last sentence did he mention the proposal. That is why I ask you to be tolerant of the opposition, because I will refer to the prime minister's presentation and the overall proposal to elect new members of the Serbian government. I thank you for your understanding. First of all, I cannot agree with 99% of what Serbian Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic said in his presentation. That, of course, is my right as leader of the opposition party and that right is shared by the MP club of the Soviet Union. The prime minister says Serbia is on the right track or at least that's what his tour is called, which I think is quite unsuccessful. If nothing else, because, say, in Novi Pazar Suleiman Ugljanin, who rules the New Market on behalf of the SDA that has local authority, he wouldn't even allow the prime minister to hold a rally in the home of culture. (From the O.R.: It's democracy. ) This is not democracy, because this culture home was built by the people of Serbia, all citizens of Serbia and the government of Serbia. It's just destroying the authority of the prime minister of Serbia. As Prime Minister, I would never let Suleiman Ugljanin do that. I argue that Serbia is not on the right track, Serbia is on a bad path, and Serbia is going on Saturday under DOS authority. If it is a good way for Serbia to sell the best Serbian businesses, if it is a good path for Serbia to sell Serbian heads to The Hague tribunal, if it is a good path for Serbia to treat Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija and Serbs who have escaped from Kosovo and Metohija, not to worry about the realization of Resolution 1244, not to worry about the return of Serbs to Kosovo and Metohija, then it is not a good path to Serbia. If the good path that Serbia is taking is to worry about the south of Serbia, because the problem of southern Serbia is not solved, because it would not have been resolved for Serbs to sell houses, apartments, properties in southern Serbia. That's how he solved both Kosovo and Metohija's problem. We can't allow the same scenario. Also, Serbia's government's concern over the Raska area, where foreign language, Bosnian language, was introduced, officially at SO Novi Pazar. Against it, the Serbian government has not raised its voice, which is an anti-constitutional and anti-legislative act. So Serbia is not on the right track and Serbia is on the wrong track, as long as the government is in power in Serbia. By mixing the executive authority in judicial and legislative power, all three branches of government that exist in all democratic countries have been violated. As you know, there is a legislative, executive and judicial authority. The executive government of Serbia, or the Serbian government, has shown several examples of violations of both legislative and judicial authority. I will give you an example of a violation of the legislative authority, i.e. the cause of the parliamentary crisis: DOS deliberately makes two parliamentary groups from the SPS and divides the opposition party into two parts. It's made up and it's true. [[growls]] Second, contrary to Article 88. Law on the election of MPs, DSS MPs were expelled, only to win the parliamentary majority of the DOS. She's got it, but it's just obvious. This has created an even deeper and bigger political crisis in Serbia, and this is really not good for the citizens of Serbia, because it has violated the electoral will of Serbian citizens. I don't care much that the DSS left parliament, because they still declare themselves DOS. It's not quite as if the president of a state who won the election is a shadow government. The government in the shadow of the world is making opposition parties, and not those who win. However, the Law on the Selection of Members of the People has been violated. Also, the violation of the judicial authority has been manifested these days by the incursion of executive officials with cameras in courts. This is unrecorded in the parliamentary practice of Europe and the world. The prime minister also mentioned that he has no influence on state media. I'll give you an example. It has been 18 months since this parliament was established. In those 18 months, only once was the representative of the Soviet Union a guest at RTS, a few days ago, with four other parties. Only one time. We can see Prime Minister Djindjic in every diary at least three times. I have to conclude that Joseph Broz Tito didn't show up so much in public television logs. This is where we come to freedom of the media in Serbia. No resolution minister, please, has filed a report on the work in his portfolio. I am sorry that Mr Dusan Mihajlovic is not here, whom I called today and who has not responded, which is why no murders and abductions in Serbia are being solved. Why buy "pejoi" and not solve the housing issues of police and police officers? Why are these same cops being scolded, not only by cops, but also by soldiers defending Kosovo and Metohija, by revealing mass graves? His assistant, Carlos, found several more tombs yesterday. The police minister said that the overturned sky and country will find the killers of General Bosko Bohe. As he turned the country around, he found tombs of innocent Albanians, as he claimed, who killed Serb forces...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22230	Mr. Pelevic, please return to the agenda. This is the seventh minute and you haven't talked about the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22231	The Serbian government president has asked for advice on how to solve the problem and whether there is any better proposal to address these problems found by the Serbian government. I have a proposition. If you asked for advice, Mr. Prime Minister, let me give it to you: resign, both you and the members of your government. Take off a burden you can't carry. Only by calling elections at all levels that you promised Serbian citizens in the election campaign; you promised it -- a year and a half after winning, we call elections at all levels. Don't laugh, Mr. Prime Minister. Please, on all levels. That's how it is in the contract with Serbia that you signed as DOS candidates. You're avoiding the election. Why? Because the fake polls that you design every seven days via television and the media say that you are still a stable majority, that you are a stable government and that you will win. Then why don't you call the election? So let's see if that's the real will of the Serbian citizens. You're avoiding the election because you know you won't win that election. There are all kinds of crises in this country: both territorial, and political, and parliamentary, and political, and economic, and social. Almost all classes of the Serbian population are at risk. The only way out of all the crisis in which Serbia has found itself is by calling elections at all levels. That is why it is my advice that you resign and save Serbia, leave the government and discuss elections at all levels. This will test the will of the people of Serbia, the will of the citizens of Serbia, and if you win, keep on ruling. Rest assured, the will of the citizens of Serbia that you are designing through your state media is not right and is not true. The people didn't get what you promised them. The people are deceived by your promises, the people are disappointed, and the people want you out of power as soon as possible. I want it done as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22232	Are any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, answering for a word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a search on the Prime Minister's proposal to elect a number of members of the Government. According to Article 187(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I schedule on 19 June 2002 as a day for voting on the Prime Minister's proposal to elect a number of members of the government, starting at 10.00 hours. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: - The proposal of the President of the Republic of Serbia for the election of the President and Judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia has been received by the President of the Republic of Serbia for the election of the President and Judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia, with the biographical data of the candidates, as well as the consent of the candidates to accept the candidacy. I remind you that, in accordance with Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time for discussion, is five hours, and it is allocated to a relative number of MPs in the parliamentary group. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to present me with a list with a order of registered Members of Parliament. According to Article 174(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a hearing on the proposal of the President of the Republic of Serbia to elect the President and Judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word at this point? The word is from MP Rajko Baralic, authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22233	Ms. Micic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, members of Mr. Djindjic's cabinet, respected journalists, the SPS has since the constitution of this parliament indicated that a state in which there is no state or for any reason does not operate as a dictatorship. Any state that cannot guarantee its citizens the protection of constitutionality and legality and is a dictatorship. This is the material evidence that best speaks of the character of the government that DOS performs and implements in Serbia, which speaks of how the government of the Republic of Serbia and the parliament of this country function. We are the only state in which the Prime Minister can announce at which point the Constitutional Court is being established, the only state in which the Prime Minister announces when there will be presidential elections. We are the only state in which the Prime Minister has one-fifth of the mandate of Members of Parliament in the Republic. (Milka Marinkovic: Don't lie, Rajko. ) I ask the unfettered members of the Women's Network to act as if they were Members of the Parliament and to dress up the images of Parliament and the calling they wear. We are the only state in which the Constitutional Court serves to prove that the functioning of one regime is legal and legitimate at a given time, not to provide citizens with what the citizens of each state need to ensure. At least a thousand times from this pay phone at least a hundred MPs in various occasions demanded that the Constitutional Court finally begin to work and perform that function that belongs to him under the Constitution. Why hasn't it been appropriate so far that we have a Constitutional Court? Because a whole series of decisions, procedures and everything else that has followed and characterized DOS regimes to date, in that court (if there is a fundamental honesty and expertise of the Constitutional Court judges, and I do not want to doubt that), it should be assessed as unconstitutional and fall, and this calls into question the legitimacy of the authorities. Has the Government of the Republic of Serbia violated the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Constitution of the SRJ and the Federal Constitutional Court decision of 28 June 2001? Whether or not Article 47(2) has been broken. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which is prescribed that a citizen of the Republic of Serbia cannot be deprived of citizenship, exiled or extradited, as well as an appropriate member of the Federal Constitution, Article 17(2). Whether this and a number of other issues, which we can ask long before you, the Constitutional Court, which will obviously be elected in 19th, can give adequate interpretation and satisfaction to the citizens of Serbia, who obviously know that this is not about the intention of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the parliament of Serbia to provide citizens with what belongs to them, but to provide something else that will, in a functional sense, make it easier for DOS authorities to function in the next two projected years of their term of office. What is proposed as a solution? We, as an extraordinary measure, which for you had the character of a certain rehabilitation of Mr Vučetic, abolished certain decisions of this assembly in the previous term. My intention is not to talk about Mr. Slobodan Vučetic, although, of course, for many years, from what was his public exposure, we know in which political waters he's been moving, what he's done in the last few years, and how he's earned to be today a candidate of your authority for president of the most significant judicial establishment in this country. It is hard to believe that, as you like to say, it is about independent candidates, top professionals and people who will do their job in accordance with the Constitution and the laws and will thus try to mitigate the disastrous consequences of your government over the past two years. Mr. Slobodan Vučetić - his profile, professional and political, was created at another time, in another kitchen. It belonged to the authorities as it belongs, completely and finally, in a different ideological system, from which you today wash your hands, although unsuccessfully, because then you would be left without at least three-quarters of the staff you have today. One of the proposed judges of the Constitutional Court is a man to whom you also owe special gratitude, because he is in the so-called The Gonzales Commission for your account performed certain services and made these services available to the public, in a way that was not usual. Your problem is that we know all this, but I think it's better for the state to have any constitutional court and any President of the Constitutional Court, than that the court and the president of the court are gone. Will you be able to respond to the citizens of Serbia whether in a constitutional way the Republic Election Commission and the Administrative Committee of this Assembly applied to the mandates of the MPs you were re-emphasizing, kicked them out, when you took away political parties, when you transferred them, and when you included them in your parliamentary club. It's invisible and outrageous, whatever you think about today. These things are not done in the world, they are not done, it is not correct and it is not in accordance with any of the laws relating to the choice of MPs and the functioning of a state and of any government. I want to say the next thing, Mr. Djindjic, you're wasting taxpayers' money in vain to atomize, decompose and make a meaningless political impact of the SPS. It stands before you, the SPS who, in a way that is only possible and legitimate, will send you to the opposition in the first elections to be held in the fall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22234	Are any of the other representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? No, I don't. We continue the debate according to the statements of the MPs for the word. The word is from MP Velimir Simonovic, the DOS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22235	Ladies and gentlemen, I will, of course, vote in favour of this proposal, for all judges and for Mr. Vučetic, with one note regarding Mr. Vučetic. There's no doubt that it's one great lawyer, that he wrote more books, which is for every praise, that he's a member of the Association of Lawyers, the Society of Judges. But I don't think he belongs to the G17 Plus and the CeSID, as the Constitutional Court judge, and especially as president. I also noticed, reading his articles or watching TV some time, etc., that he often has a habit of making statements about day-to-day political events and even commenting on the work of certain political parties. He doesn't have to do that as a judge of the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22236	The word has been made by MP Milos Lukic, the SSJ parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22237	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Prime Minister, is today on June 18, 2002, and I don't think there's any excuse that by this day, at 1700 hours, we don't have elected Judges of the Constitutional Court and we don't have a President of the Constitutional Court. I don't think there was any reason to wait this long, but what's here is better than ever. Today we are in a position to get this significant institution, of which the people look forward to and should bring additional seriousness into the work of this state and its functioning. Speaking of the election of the Constitutional Court judges, I must say that people often have a habit of mixing some concepts, so they often accuse lawyers and legal professions of being guilty of the state of affairs in the state of the country, the state of the law, etc. There we must once say that it has always been in all systems so that the regulations have been written by politicians, and that the lawyers have had this ungrateful role to apply, in one way or another, and that it is later commented and that this profession is very easy to take as something that everyone can criticise and call. In any case, when rights are entered and someone wants to study the real ultimate goal is to become a judge, and if someone becomes a judge of the Constitutional Court, I think it's the height of a fellow's career. Because of all this, I don't want to comment on the individual suggestions that are ahead of us, because I think there's a lot of it and there's no point in commenting here on personal biography. It is certain that this state has many prominent lawyers and experts and perhaps it could also strengthen the composition of the Constitutional Court to form, however, I think this is a good move and it is a good thing that we get the Constitutional Court. I would like to tell the newly elected judges and the President of the Constitutional Court to be aware of what awaits them in their careers, that is, a close period ahead of them and before all of us. Namely, I would like to remind myself of the provisions of the Serbian Constitution, which states what all the Constitutional Court decides. The Constitutional Court shall decide on the consent of the laws, the statutes of autonomous provinces and other regulations, and on the consent of the regulations and general acts, etc., on the conflict of jurisdiction between courts and other bodies. However, we are now coming to a set of several powers, which will likely be the topic of the work of our Constitutional Court, which is the consensus of the statutes or the second general act of the political party or other political organisation with the Constitution. I think there will be pressure on the Constitutional Court judges to intervene in this part, that there will be problems with the statutes of individual parties and that this will be one way to make the ruling coalition deal with certain opposition parties. Then, the Constitutional Court decides to ban the political party or other political organisations from working. It is certainly a theme that will be set before these honorable people, and they will surely have a great dilemma about how to act, whether by conscience, whether strictly respecting the profession or respecting the ruling oligarchy. I'm afraid this third one is going to be the strongest and it's going to stretch. Then there are electoral disputes; in front of us, we wanted to admit it or not, elections, and in series. There will certainly be choices at various levels, and surely the Constitutional Court will have a lot of work to do in this matter. Therefore, electoral disputes, which are not in the jurisdiction of the courts or other state bodies, are within the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court. And I would say one more thing - the Constitutional Court assesses the constitutionality and legality of the regulations and other general acts that have ceased to apply if more than one year has not passed since the expiry of the procedure. We already have a lot of regulations that could be covered by one of these interventions. For many of them, however, the deadline has already expired. It is certain that the Government should seriously consider what all the regulations have served us, how much of the rules that we may have brought here in the Assembly, and that they are contrary to the Constitution; I think that this constitutional court will have a lot of work to do, but I am expressing hope that it will restore order and restore dignity to this state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22238	Since MP Bosko Ristic has given up his application for the word, the word has been given by MP Vojislav Seselj (I find that he is not present). The next person registered for the word is MP Rajko Baralic (the ambassador giving up his application for the word). The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22239	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I must tell you that I was pleased to see, in one act finally, the signature of the President of the Republic of Serbia, Milan Milutinovic, which proves that he is still in shape, and then regretfully, I must conclude that in this country, the Constitutional Court, as the Supreme Court, was blocked by the fact that in February of last year, by leaving certain members in retirement, in any case, there are only three of them left in that court, which, of course, is not enough for the decision and for the work of that court. But there is one much bigger thing going on here, which is behind all these events, behind blocking the work of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia. In line with the principle of power-sharing in legislative, executive and judicial matters today, Serbia is in a position to try to compromise the executive authority both over the legislative and judicial authority. With regard to the sub-premation of an executive over the legislative authority, the fact is enough that this House has passed a law on the ministries for a short minute, and I would not talk too much about it. I would just like to remind you that it is truly a shame that the state parliament has been placed in a position to literally become a voting machine, without any possibility of declaring itself on the views or on the most important issues concerning the state. On the other hand, the executive power, therefore the government, under DOS authority, is trying to achieve a compromise, also to exercise control over the work of the judicial authority. This is trying in a number of ways -- it is clear to everyone that by the recent incursion, on June 10th, at the Second Municipal Court in Belgrade, with BK cameras, the government has tried to exert one pressure on the work of judges, who, I remind you, should be independent in their work in accordance with constitutional provisions and only respond to citizens. I must also remind you that one of the types of pressure and subsuppression of the executive authority is over the judicial authority and the fact that the Constitutional Court could not do due to the lack of sufficient number of judges to decide in that court. In accordance with Article 125. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, I would remind you that the Constitutional Court is deciding on the consent of laws, the statutes of autonomous provinces, other regulations and general acts with the Constitution, and here I would stop, so that we could all ask ourselves together - whether one such important organ should really not work for almost a year or a half longer. At the same time, I welcome all distinguished colleagues and invite them to come out for a pay phone if they have anything to say. There's really no need to throw each other away. You have the right to come out, as well as Mr. Minister, I suggest you hear my arguments and draw your conclusions in accordance with them and vote on the election and the empty seats in the Republic Constitutional Court at the end of this exhibition. Therefore, since the Constitutional Court, in accordance with Article 125, decides on the consent or disagreement of the law, the statutes of autonomous provinces, other regulations and general acts with the Constitution, this is one of the reasons why it was possible, or allowed, to obstruct the work of that court in the sense of non-fulfilment of the judicial posts. Point 2 says the Constitutional Court decides on the consent of the regulations and general acts of the Republic authorities with the law. This is about a lot of government regulations, which, I must say, are very suspicious in accordance with the Constitution. Then, the Constitutional Court decides on the consent of all other regulations, collective agreements as general instruments and other general acts with the law and other republican regulations; on the conflict of jurisdiction between courts and other bodies; on the consent of the statutes or other general act of the political party or other political organisation with the Constitution and the law; and - in particular, I will draw your attention - to the ban on the work of a political party or other political organisation; also on election disputes that are not in the jurisdiction of courts or other state bodies. I must conclude that all these above-mentioned powers of the Constitutional Court are sufficient reason to suspect that there really was an obstruction here, a deliberate obstruction of the work of this organ. Also, I have to ask you - was it possible that the obstruction of the work of this body was the reason why the Constitutional Court of Serbia did not declare itself on the proposal for a law to repeal the Government of Serbia's decision, namely the Government of the Republic of Serbia, No. 713-64-83/01, since 28 June 2001, which violated the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Constitution of the SRJ and the decision of the Federal Constitutional Court of 28 June 2001? I will remind you - that decision violates several members of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia: Article 47(2), which stipulates that a citizen of the Republic of Serbia cannot be deprived of citizenship, exiled or extradited, as well as an appropriate member of the Federal Constitution, Article 17(3). A decision has been broken - a resolution of the Federal Constitutional Court of 28 June 2001, prohibiting the application of the Regulation on co-operation with the International Criminal Tribunal, as well as all acts and actions related to this, while also Article 129(2). The Constitution of the SRJ which stipulates that the decision of the Federal Constitutional Court is general and enforceable. In addition to these provisions, the Government of the Republic of Serbia has broken other numerous provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Constitution of Yugoslavia, federal and republican laws, and ratified international contracts. [[Sagar.]] In addition to these provisions, the government has violated the freedoms and rights of all citizens, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, guaranteed by a republican and federal constitution, by its decision, the exercise of an anti-constitutional and illegal decision and the surrender of former President of the Republic of Serbia and the SRJ Slobodan Milosevic to the UN tribunal....
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22240	Mr. Todorovic, I warn you to return to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22241	I remind only all MPs in the hall, and those who may be following the session through TV transmissions, which are possible reasons for the deliberate obstruction of the work of the Republic Constitutional Court. The other kind of pressure on the judiciary and on the judicial authorities is this hack that's being run in the media today, but so I don't get off the subject that's on the agenda today, I'm not going to talk about it anymore, I'm going to talk about it more when we have a set of justice laws on the agenda. In public, therefore, there have been numerous speculations that have not filled the places previously. Whether coalition partners within the DOS could not agree on who would be the most eligible candidate for membership in the Constitutional Court, until it was really necessary to obstruct and block the work of the Constitutional Court of Serbia. Of course, the time before us will bring answers to all these questions, and today, when we already have concrete proposals by Mr Milutinovic, with a brief look at them, we can conclude that these proposals are clearly made by some other criteria that are not primarily related to the profession. Since it's a Constitutional Court with very high jurisdiction, and I'll remind you that the Constitutional Court does have very great powers... Mr. Minister, I'll cut back when the time is up. You've limited your time for discussion, opposition, to minimum, and now your warning is to cut short, which is really not relevant. Madam Chairman, please note those present in the O.R.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22242	Please do not interfere with the speaker's exposure. And the speaker please stick to the agenda theme.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22243	Thank you. It is absolutely today's topic -- proposals to fill the seats in the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, given the great powers and great importance that the Constitutional Court has in each country, it is natural for criteria to be chosen by people who should be members or judges of the Constitutional Court to be prejudicial expertise and evidence in long-term practice, which in the judicial bodies, which in the judiciary, or otherwise. Unfortunately, I have to say, with all due respect for the proposed human resources, although my smallness is no great expert in the field of justice (at least I don't consider myself), in consultation with some of the prominent people of the legal profession, I have tried to find out whether among the proposed candidates for members of the Republic's Constitutional Court there are really prominent lawyers, those who have proven themselves by their work. Unfortunately, I have not received a positive answer in any case, but I hope by doing my work the future judges of the Constitutional Court will prove their expertise and justify their trusted trust. Also, I can't help but say a few words about a proposal for the President of the Republic Constitutional Court himself. Namely, I remind you that Article 126, paragraph 4, states that the Constitutional Court judge cannot perform another public function or professional activity. The proposal for the President of the Republic Constitutional Court, which envisions Mr. Slobodan Vučetic, states, in addition to other things, that he has actively participated in the work of more professional associations and organisations in recent years: Association of Lawyers, Association of Judges, G-17 Plus, CESID, Ledge, Palgo Center and so on. He is now a member of the Board of Directors of the Society of Judges and Co-President of the League of Experts - Ledge in Belgrade. Here we have to stop to wonder if this is another example of G-17 plus, an NGO that has not published its sources of funding by this day and day; so far we have not been able to find out who is funding this organization, but we have been able to figure out that this, called non-governmental organization has the largest power in this country. So, next to the governor of the National Bank of Yugoslavia, next to the vice president of the federal government, G-17 plus, so on. The NGO is now winning the position of the President of the Republic Constitutional Court of its candidate. Really, isn't that the reason for all of us's concern? Don't think it's not because you're in power now, so that's the situation. It's a big system problem that needs to be solved in the future. However, today you are in power and today you need to think about it. I also have to point out the fact that Mr. Vučetic, under some unexplained circumstances and under some procedurally suspicious actions, has been resolved and removed from the previous judicial function, but I would not spend too much of my words on it. For all of these reasons and for not making it impossible for my fellow MPs who probably want to say a little more about this subject, I will bring my discussion to an end in the belief that I have convinced you with enough arguments, and especially you, Mr. Minister, that it is really necessary at this point for the Constitutional Court to function, but not in any way. I hope that despite the fact that there will likely be numerous pressures on future Constitutional Court judges, they will do their job with honor. Also, due to the fact that in the Constitutional Court after a year and a half of breaks, blockades or whatever you want, more than 450 old and newly admitted cases have accumulated, I want the future judges of the Constitutional Court to have many successes in their work, but for all these reasons, I declare that the SPS parliamentary group will be abstained. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22244	The word has the People's MP Joca Arsic - not present. The next reported MP, Toma Busetic, is not present. National MP Branko Ruzic - not present. The word is made by MP Ljubisa Maravić, a parliamentary group of SPS, and we end the debate of the MPs according to the application for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22245	Dear fellow MPs, Mr. Minister, as a Serb from Kosovo and Metohija, I am pleased to conclude that the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia will finally be established which has not been in office for 16 months because, it is said, there is no need for a quorum for work, and that among the proposed candidates for the Constitutional Court of Serbia is also a person born in Kosovo and Metohija, in Kosovo Mitrovica, who is a regular professor of the University of Pristina. I say, especially because he is also a regular professor of the University of Pristina, because we all know that education, health care and some other small state institutions of the Republic of Serbia still operate in the territory of the AP of Kosovo and Metohija. In addition, all those citizens of Cosmet who feel the citizens of the Serbian state were extremely bothered that there was no highest authority in our republic to address with a request for the protection of basic civil rights. These rights, as we all know, are massively broken and denied by the Cypriot separatists, but also by a part of the international community that helps them. One of the open, key issues for all Serbian citizens and all of us living in Kosovo and Metohija are constitutional solutions that will bring us the Constitutional Charter of the future common state of Serbia-Montenegro. From the personal composition of the Commission working on the Constitutional Charter, it is noted that among the proposed candidates there are none from the space of Kosovo and Metohija which would and would be vitally interested in resolving the constitutional and legal status of this part of the state of Serbia, which is now called the AP Kosovo and Metohija. That is why all of us Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija are concerned about our national but also about our personal existence and the future; for each of us this issue is extremely important. Unfortunately, the practice so far shows that the state of Serbia, whenever it came to a situation that openly violates its Constitution and the conclusions of its state authorities, has always yielded to the direct and indirect pressures of the Cypriot separatists that they have carried out alone or through international institutions. I will give just a few examples: the flagrant ignoring of the Resolution and the conclusions made by this assembly about a year ago, then giving up the conduct of local and regional elections on the territory of Kosovo and Metohija according to our current regulations, and the latest fact that the census of the population is not being conducted on the territory of the AP of Kosovo and Metohija. Thus, those living in the territory of the AP of Kosovo and Metohija are deprived of basic human, civil and constitutional rights as a citizen of Serbia. We also know that Kosovo and Metohija are under the UN Security Council resolution, but I hope that the Constitutional Court will find opportunities and ways to deal with this issue. That's why I'm going to end this brief presentation with a quote from the "Gorsky Wreath": "If he had a brother to regret, he would've helped."
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22246	There are no more entries on the lists of MPs for the word. The word was requested by the minister of justice, Mr Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22247	The Honorable Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honored guests, when discussing the Constitutional Court, it would not be bad for MPs to read the Constitution sometimes and see that the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia is not in charge of either the Ministry of Justice or the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The Constitutional Court, judges of the Constitutional Court, the President of the Constitutional Court, proposes the President of the Republic of Parliament, and parliament elects them. So you could have tried to read the Constitution at least that much because the government is constantly being accused of infunctioning the Constitutional Court of Serbia. As far as I know, the president of the Republic is still a member of the Socialist Party of Serbia, so you should have sought the answer to that question with him. As for the collapse of Serbia's Constitutional Court institution, the previous government has led to the collapse. All over the world, when members of the Constitutional Court of Serbia are elected, only two types of attributes are taken into account. One thing is to be the highest legal experts, and the other is to be a person of unsullied moral values. It's so everywhere in the normal democratic world. What did you do? You chose not a lawyer as the President of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia, but an economist for years, and he has been the President of the Constitutional Court of Serbia. You elected a prominent member of the JUL, a man against whom several criminal proceedings are being conducted today, in one period for the President of the Federal Constitutional Court. So that is the answer to the collapse of the Constitutional Court institution and there is no responsibility nor the Ministry of Justice nor the Government of the Republic of Serbia, simply, it is the relation of the President of the Republic of Parliament. Of course we all care that there is and the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia functions normally. There have been several remarks here, completely out of context, off topic and off the agenda, concerning alleged interference or alleged attempt to submerge the executive authority over judicial authority. It's just a little bit more to read the law. The Law on the Regulation of Courts and Rules of Procedure has established in what way, for example, the Office of Judicial Oversight controls or controls; there should be no legal expert there, because the very name results in what the Office of Judiciary is doing, which is totally in accordance with the Law and the Rules of Procedure. So also the president of Serbia's Supreme Court at a meeting, held right here, said there was no pressure from the executive authority on the judicial authority. That's what Mrs. Shkero said in her address, there's no pressure. The impact of an executive on the judicial authority may only be in relation to the decision. If the executive authority asked someone to be charged, to be tried, to be punished by a sentence of 10, 20, or I don't know how many years in prison or to get rid of punishment, that's an influence in decision-making. When it comes to work, order and discipline, so the judges aren't polar bears legally protected that they can't work, that they don't come to work. They have to come to work, they have to work. Changes have been made in parliament; we have chosen a new legislative authority. The changes were made in the executive government and we chose a new government, and changes are necessary in the judiciary as well. You can't do justice reform with old obedience personnel. Serbian citizens, when it comes to the judiciary, expected three things. First, that those who defiled him, compromised him, should be removed from the judiciary. There have been electoral thefts, there have been mounted political processes, there have been hypocrisies, nepotism, corruption, there have been catastrophic results of work, and these people have to leave the judiciary, no matter how much they take away, and how many several speakers are trying to get out of their easy positions to stand in their protection. It's false solidarity, and no one's gonna give it up. Therefore, citizens expected them to leave the judiciary, expected people who robbed the country and the people to lead him to the beggar stick, to find him on the indictee's bench and where they belong. And it will be found where they belong; I can promise it, because it is necessary, because there are a lot of criminal charges, a light of accusations that must be done, acted and decided. Finally, citizens expected it to be significantly more up-to-date, significantly more efficient, and not that marathon disputes would continue to continue which, after a certain period, a certain number of years, would lose completely every meaning. The question is, the cameras came in. The cameras entered with the agreement of the President of the District Court in Belgrade. Why would the work of parliament be public, why would the work of the executive authority be public and the work of the courts secret? In addition, the Rules of Procedure provide for the possibility to even monitor the course of a search if the confidentiality of the proceedings is not particularly limited, so the search course cannot be recorded. So, theoretically, any search can be recorded, but it can also be entered with cameras and seen if the judges are working or not. So when the worker doesn't work, he gets fired, the clerk doesn't get fired, when the MP doesn't work, he can't be an MP, and when the judge doesn't work, he won't be a judge. So behind that, we're not going to bow down to any blackmail or attempt to turn an independent judiciary into some false metaphysical category. The judiciary isn't some celestial body that has some kind of galaxy and some kind of orbit. It must function in a constellation with legislative and executive authority, because these are three authorities that must synchronise and coordinate their work. The executive authority, as the Supreme Court President and the President of the District Court have said, will not interfere with decision-making in courts, but will seek order, work and discipline from all other citizens of the country. We have a catastrophic criminal policy. The number of convictions and sentences imposed is four times smaller than 30 years ago when there was an expansion of crime. We won't interfere, but if the same two judges decide to lift custody in all possible cases, then you have to ask yourself why. So there's no interference, there's no influence. With checking whether or not the justice ministry's judicial oversight services will continue, because when all Serbian citizens can come to work on time, judges must do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22248	Do the presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, want the word? The word has been issued by MP Rajko Baralic, the authorised representative of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, the second entry for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22249	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, when the minister of justice wants a press conference, he can always organise it, both as minister of justice and as president of the party. It is unnecessary to do so for a congregation speaker and to abuse and replicate our time by the President of the District Court, who is not present here. That's the first thing. The second thing, Socialist Party of Serbia MPs did not ask for the election of the president and members of the Constitutional Court to be a matter initiated or initiated by the government. Members of the Socialist Party of Serbia are well aware of the procedure concerning the choice of judges and president of the Constitutional Court. We talked here not about institutional, but about informal supremacy of the executive authority over judicial and legislative matters. That's what you see with your naked eye, that's what you see every day, and with that, we can always talk about it in a qualified way with each and every one of you and talk you out in that story. It makes no sense for the president of the Republic of Serbia, Milan Milutinovic, to quote as a small child when it suits someone, for one or the other thing, and you have previously been blackmailed by the Hague indictment and it is only a matter of days when you will hand him over as a suitcase, when you no longer need him. He is a member of the Socialist Party of Serbia only when it suits you. That's the full truth about it. National MPs of the Socialist Party of Serbia will abstain from voting, not because they are against the election of the Constitutional Court judges, who will finally ensure the constitution of this court and the election of the President of the Constitutional Court, but because they do not want to give the legitimacy that the Constitutional Court and the President of the Constitutional Court are elected when it suits you, and you are responsible for that court's failure to function for 16 months.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-18-0.u22250	I ask if any of the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, are answering for a word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the search on the proposal of the President of the Republic of Serbia to elect the President and Judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia, and the National Assembly will decide on the election of the President and Judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia in the voting day. You will be informed of the day of the vote. This would be the end of today's work. Good-bye and good-bye. To avoid confusion, tomorrow at 10 a.m. is the vote on the first item of the agenda, on the choice of government members on the proposal of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. So tomorrow's the day to vote on that agenda item at 10 o'clock. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the Third Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, the session is attended by 165 MPs and I ask you to insert identification cards into MPs to determine the quorum. I find that using the electronic system has established that we have a quorum to work with. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Mirko Rosic, Vlasimir Budimovic, Jelena Milenkovic-Orlić, Slobodan Pavlovic, Vladimir Garčević, Milorad Jaksic, Milos Nesovic and Branko Besevic. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. Also, according to members 83 and 84. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that I invited representatives of the Centre for Free Elections and Democracy, the People's Movement "Resist" and the National Democratic Institute to this session. I welcome the guests present. I remind you I'm in agreement with Article 187(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, scheduled today for the vote on the Prime Minister's proposal to elect a number of members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Since the National Assembly has carried out a search on the proposal of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia to elect a number of members of the Government, before moving to a decision, I remind you that, according to Article 187(1), Article 1 The Rules of Procedure shall decide on a proposal to elect members of the Government in general by a secret vote unless the National Assembly decides to vote publicly. I propose that the National Assembly vote on the Prime Minister's proposal to elect a number of members of the government, using an electronic voting system. I'm putting a motion to vote. For 131 against 40, the abstentions are gone, all voted, out of a total of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided to vote publicly on the Prime Minister's proposal to elect a number of members of the government, using an electronic voting system. Since the National Assembly has decided to make a public vote on the Prime Minister's proposal to elect a number of members of the government - using an electronic voting system, the National Assembly will declare this proposal as a whole. I remind you that, according to Article 92(2), paragraph 2. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 187(2). The Rules of Procedure, the decision on the election of members of the Government, is considered adopted if voted for by the majority of the total number of MPs. I am voting on the proposal of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia to elect a number of members of the government as a whole. I ask the Members of Parliament to plead with the vote. For 133, there are no 37 abstentions, one of the 171 MPs did not vote. Since a total of 133 MPs voted for the proposal of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia for the election of one number of members of the Government, representing most of the number of MPs, I find that the National Assembly accepted the proposal of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia as a whole, and chose for the new members of the Government: Mr MIODRAGA ISAKOV as Vice-President of the Government of the Republic of Serbia; 2. Mr RODOLJUBA SABIĆ, Minister for State Administration and Local Self-Government; 3. KORI UDOVIKI, Minister of Mining and Energy; 4. Dr Tomislav MILOSAVLJEVIĆA, Minister of Health; 5. Dr ANGELKO MIHAYLOV, Minister for the Protection of Natural Resources and Environment. Let me congratulate, on your behalf and on my behalf, the elected members of the government. I ask the elected members of the Government to comply with Article 6. The Law on the Government of the Republic of Serbia approaches to take an oath. [[Applause]] I will read, and elected members of the government will repeat the text of the oath. "I swear that in my work I will abide by the Constitution and the law and that I will perform the duties of a member of the Government with responsibility and security." I ask the elected members of the government to sign and give the text of the oath. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2002. I would like to remind you, in accordance with Article 90, that, before the opening of the joint principle search, that, in the light of the amendment of the Law on Taxation on Financial transactions, the Joint Principled Search on Law Proposals proposed by Parliament of the People's Republic of Cedomir Jovanovic. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time to discuss five hours for all parliamentary groups, and it is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs that the MP group has. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to hand over lists of registered MPs who want a word on these points of the agenda. I am opening a joint principle search on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia in 2002 and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Tax on Financial transactions. Does the representative of the promoter, finance and economy minister Mr Bozidar Djelic want a word? Yeah. )
