ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16857	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, the session is attended by 152 MPs. Please, in order to determine the quorum, insert identification cards into MPs. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that we have a quorum and that we can continue to work. I would like to inform you that they are prevented from attending the following MPs: Stevan Lilić, Meso Omerović, Jelena Milenkovic, Srdjan Sikimić, Vladimir Dobrosavljevic, Nebojsa Leković, Ljubodrag Grbić, Dusan Tubić, Ratimir Svirčević, Dragan Jočić, Milos Radivojčević, Radomir Naumov and in the morning Zoran Novakovic. I am informing the National Assembly that they are invited to attend: the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia; the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislatory; Nenad Canak, President of the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina and Dr Predrag Filipov, Vice-President of the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, acting as the authorised representatives of the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, who has submitted a bill laying down certain competences of the Autonomous Province, whose consideration is under way. Also, according to members 83 and 84. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia inform you that I also invited representatives of the People's Movement "Resistance", as well as representatives of the Association of Families Kidnapped and Missing in Kosovo and Metohija. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: - PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON THE DETERMINATION OF THE DETERMINATION OF THE AUTONOMITY (addition) I remind you that the debate on the bill on the determination of certain competences of the autonomous province in particular was interrupted during the review of the amendment to Article 14, which was submitted in the same text by MPs Milan Stanković and Dragan Marković. Also, I would like to remind you that MP Milan Stankovic, MP of the amendment, Prof. Dr. Branislav Ivkovic, president of the Socialist Party of Serbia and Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group, participated in the search for the amendment. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? There is a word from MP Tomislav Nikolic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16858	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, yesterday the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia was severely injured, and today the session continues in the same tone, so it will remain quite unclear what we were doing yesterday, or what we are doing today and what we will ever vote on when the debate on this bill is over. Article 146(4) The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly make it clear about the fate of amendments not accepted by the Government or by the authorised legislator, and he says: "The National Assembly specifically decides on any amendment that the legislator, the committee or government did not accept." We decided yesterday on an amendment to Article 16, i.e. the amendment number V of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the amendment did not go through. After the break here, one of the proposing representatives came to us and told us that the Vojvodina National Assembly had accepted all amendments to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, including the amendment number V. The information funds reported last night that the promoter had accepted all amendments to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, except for one that the Government had withdrawn. It is completely unclear from the stenographic notes what about the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to Article 16. The bill, i.e. it is clear: the amendment was not accepted by the National Assembly, regardless of its subsequent acceptance by the Proposer. On the other hand, I think the president of the Assembly for this speaker should make it clear that the amendment has not been accepted. On the other hand, public information funds this morning reported that the gentleman, who yesterday on behalf of the Vojvodina Assembly, accepted all amendments to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, did not have the authority of the Vojvodina Assembly to make excuses for the speaker of the National Assembly and that an emergency session of the Vojvodina Assembly would be called in which the Vojvodina Assembly would declare the overall situation. I warned you yesterday, and we have warned you about a case like this before, that we do not have any reports in front of us of the Vovojodin Assembly, except for that written, certified seal of the Assembly, which states that the Vojvodina Assembly accepts 17 amendments to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and 13 does not accept. We remain to determine whether the National Assembly will play legislative action or whether it will pass laws here in accordance with the legal order, the legal system and in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Does Mr. Filipov, who appeared yesterday at this pay phone, have the right to change the position of the Vojvodina Assembly? Do you have so much authority and do you accept that he has so much authority, when the president of the Vojvodina Assembly, who was first appointed president of the bill, is now advertised, and says that his deputy in this assembly and deputy vice-president of the Vojvodina Assembly, Mr Filipov, had no right to accept all amendments to the Government of the Republic of Serbia on behalf of the Proposer, not on behalf of the Vojvodina Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16859	Mr. Nikolic, I'm warning you, you're out of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16860	I'm sorry. I ask you to determine if Mr. Filipov had that authority, so that we can tell those in Vojvodina that Mr. Filipov had the authority.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16861	As for the first remark, we discussed it yesterday. Twice the same thing the Assembly shouldn't be discussing. The congregation has already made a decision that we have not hurt the Rules of Procedure and that we have acted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. As for the second objection, to your request, it is my pleasure to tell you that today we will be given the consent of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina Assembly. I received a notice in which Dr. Predrag Filipov was authorized to accept the amendments to the government. Anyone else answer for a word about the amendment to Article 20? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 49, against 100, 32 abstentions, 9 did not vote, out of 190 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 20 of the amendment. The proposer's representative accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 20th amendment was submitted by MP Goran Cvetanovic. Representative, Government and Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There's a word from MP Goran Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16862	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there's been a lot of confusion with this bill on determining certain jurisdiction of the autonomous province, and it's just amazing that the President of the Vojvodina Assembly isn't present all the time, that some dilemmas, which apparently the National Assembly has here, are being resolved. It is obvious that he thus shows his attitude toward the National Assembly, and often we have here persons who are either authorized or not authorized, and as usual, the president of the National Assembly knows in advance what and how it will be. Article 20 is about health care. We have adopted the previous amendment of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, so I am really asking you, given that a longer period of time does not have a health minister, who, on behalf of the Minister of Health, signs these amendments when it comes to health care? Now I'm going to give you a few definitions of health care, just so you have a clue about it, since it's obvious that unauthorized persons are doing a job that they shouldn't do. Health care is a set of measures that cover the first healthy population, its environment, and then diseases and disorders in all development stages, both individual and population groups. Health care represents overall measures and activities, both communities in general and its integrated part of health work i.e. Health services and the man himself, promotion, preservation and improvement in the field of health care. Health care is an integral part of all measures to improve human health and health and can be divided according to the measures to be taken and the levels at which that protection is provided. Health care consists of the following components: 1st improvement and preservation of health; 2nd prevention and subsidisation of disease, i.e. protection from disease; 3rd early detection of disease; 4th treatment and 5th rehabilitation. The scope of healthcare varies from country to country, depending on socio-economic relations in general, the material opportunities of society, its degree of development and organisation of health care and health care. The aforementioned Article 20 calls into question the functioning of a single health care system in the Republic of Serbia. State authorities would no longer have the authority to enforce this law in the field of health care, contrary to Article 72(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The health care of Serbian citizens must be regulated in a unique way. The Serbian Radical Party advocates the preservation of a single healthcare organisation system in Serbia. Therefore, the amendment of the Serbian Radical Party and proposed to delete points 5 and 7 in Article 20. Point 5) reads: "instructs a committee to pass an expert examination of healthcare professionals and health associates with high professional training and a commission to pass a specialist examination"; point 7) reads: "contracts the prices of certain services, i.e. the health institution programme". Dear counterpart Dr Blazic of the Serbian Radical Party explained to you yesterday, given that he was from Kikinda, how he passed his state exam after the completion of the medical school at a time when the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina had greater authority, and how it was done then, which is obviously not adequate and similar time. Some conclusions should be drawn from the fact that health care is indeed fully functioning in the entire territory of Serbia. I'll also remind you that health care is really in very bad shape. Is it because for several months the Ministry of Health has not worked at all; whether because there is no consumable medical material in hospitals, there are no medicines intended to treat diabetes, asthma, cardiovascular diseases, cancer. And not to mention diagnostic tests, like scanners, color-dopplers, ergotests, magnetic resonances, ultrasounds, which is what we've been waiting for for a few months. It's obvious there's no money for drugs, but that's why there's been a door set up a few days ago with sensors, so it's obvious that only makeup is what, when observed on the side, is some progress, and what interests patients, such as drugs and diagnostics, is still out of function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16863	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Nobody. I put this amendment to the vote. 53, against 97, with 25 abstentions, did not vote 18, out of 193 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 21. The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Stankovic. Representative, Government and Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There's a word from MP Milan Stankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16864	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, on behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia on behalf of Article 21. I have submitted an amendment to the law proposing that Article 21 be deleted. Article 21 speaks of sanitary surveillance. It says: "Autonomic province, through its organs, in accordance with the law governing the area of sanitary supervision, performs the tasks of sanitary supervision; the work of the 1st member's position is carried out as confidential." I will remind you that according to the Constitution of Serbia, sanitary supervision is being carried out exclusively by the state, which means, at least for now, the Republic of Serbia, not an autonomous province. The execution of certain tasks can be entrusted to an autonomous province, but the supervision of law enforcement, under the Constitution, is done by the state. Trusting certain businesses in this area to the Autonomous province of the Socialist Party is quite acceptable, but it is not acceptable for surveillance to be carried out by an autonomous province, because real responsibility has a state, not a province. For example, someone may be suing the state, because certain shortcomings in the sanitary supervision of the province's authorities have been made, and the punishment will in that case be paid by the state of Serbia, not by the authorities of the autonomous province. The relevant Republic law has already regulated this area. It is correctly established, in accordance with the Constitution, whose jurisdiction is which. As a result, it is much more celery to amend the Republic's law first and only then, if necessary, to pass such a law. The laws are usually brought to order society as well as to make it better for everyone. How is that going to make the citizens of Vojvodina better if they skip the constitution and the laws - I don't know. There may be fewer trihinosis, but I'm pretty sure the answer can be given by Canak and Djindjic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16865	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Nobody. I put this amendment to the vote. For 55, against 96 abstentions, 29 did not vote 14 out of 194 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 21st Amendment were submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic. Representative, Government and Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There's a word from MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16866	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is no system at all that we want to achieve by this bill. In some areas, the government of the Republic of Serbia abolishes the rights of the autonomous province to exercise control, and in some areas it has left the surveillance. What's surveillance? Oversight is done by one who has jurisdiction. And you, or a representative of the promoters, have accepted the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to Article 20, which has not been given supervision of health care, and now the Government of the Republic of Serbia has not had any continuity, so to say - and in Article 21, it is not possible to entrust the sanitary supervision of the autonomous province, but - here, we will not give health supervision and we are giving sanitary supervision. What's the difference? That no one, nor the legislator, nor the Government of the Republic of Serbia, can explain it to us. What does it mean to give sanitary supervision or to control the enforcement of regulations and health care to the autonomous province? First of all, according to the Constitution, you can't do that, and this job cannot be entrusted to an autonomous province. Then why do we need the Government of the Republic of Serbia? Let's reduce the number of members of the government and write in the Law of the Government - the government of the Republic of Serbia has no jurisdiction in the territory of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina, the National Assembly and the jurisdiction of the Autonomous Region itself has passed on. We don't need so many ministers then, and we don't need that kind of machine, because Vojvodina is going to have to build a new machine for the competencies she's got. We're doubling the organs. What does that mean in the triquinosis case? Who controls now, when you adopt this bill -- the sanitary bodies of the autonomous province. The whole of Serbia could not prevent the appearance of the trihinosis, and now the Republic Minister of Agriculture, before coming by at night to the place for which they had warned him from the Democratic Party of Serbia, will go to see the meeting and they will say - what you are looking for here; this surveillance is entrusted to the Autonomous province and that is done by our province's Minister for Agriculture, our provincial health minister; you return to Belgrade and wait for the report, so if you don't like the report suing us with the Constitutional Court; you have said here as a member of the Government of the Republic of Serbia that all of this is possible, and when possible, don't go over those bridges to cross us. Maybe someone will tell us -- that they didn't take down those bridges and so the Socialists wouldn't come and radicals to rebuild them, to stay DOS, and never to rebuild them again, just like only two left you in Novi Sad. Here, you're nagging, you've been messing around for a year and a half, you're not looking from the shore, you're looking at each other, what's going on there. You think this is a toy, that one little kid, an unworthy expensive toy, was given an expensive toy and was told to do whatever you want, ruin this toy. We made it so you could ruin it. It wasn't made by those who wanted to live in one country, it wasn't our country that they made it so that you could talk it out any way you want. Just don't go and don't dig trenches between Serbia and Vojvodina. It is difficult to cross the trenches, and the threats already exist that we will either give whatever is sought or there will be a conflict between Vojvodina and this other part of Serbia, which without Vojvodina will not be worth anything, nor will the Vojvodina without Serbia be worth anything. So I suggest you stop with this bill, do nothing anyway, do nothing, do nothing serious, and do nothing serious; find first in the Vojvodina Assembly what the Vojvodina Assembly wants, and not what individuals from certain political parties want in the Vojvodina; get information here what the people of Vojvodina want through the Vojvodina Assembly and then approach it, and not like this - we accept this, we did not. I warn you, Mrs Micic, that the amendment to the Government of the Republic of Serbia was unable to accept the proposal. Read the stenographic notes. You accepted Mr. Filipov's argument that the motion for acceptance of Prime Minister No. V. That amendment no longer existed, it was rejected by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16867	He accepted the amendment to Article 16 in accordance with Article 145. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, due to the acceptance of some previous amendments, have been amended to Article 7, 9, 11, and we have discussed this two or three times already. The next time you open that question, I'm gonna have to take the measures that I'm about to take under my Rules of Procedure. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 56, against 94, abstentioned 24, 15 of the 189 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 22nd amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Dragan Markovic and joint MPs Ljubisa Maravic and Toma Busetic. Representative, Government and Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Do any of the applicants of the amendment want a word? The word has been delivered by MP Toma Busetic as a representative of the amendments proposed by MPs Toma Busetic and Ljubisa Maravic together.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16868	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia, I have proposed that this member of the law be deleted. Why? The education of the province's authorities in the area of social security is an eclectic example of the takeover of the authority that only the Republic of Serbia can have. The draft law, through the education of the Regional Institute for Health Insurance, lays down the right of the Regional Institute to exercise professional control over the work of branches, to have a sub-account through which payment and payment of funds from the Republic of Serbia is made and, for example, to appoint the directors of branches in the area of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina. If all this belongs to the District Office, then what are the authorities of the Republic Institute? In this area, in the region of Vojvodina - none. Professional control is primarily a state function and cannot be removed from the jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia. It is unacceptable and unnecessary to open the sub-accounts of the Regional Health Insurance Institute, because the sub-accounts already have existing branches in Vojvodina, and there are seven. In order to avoid confusion, it is necessary to know that the participation of Vojvodina in the total revenues of the Republic Institute is about 20%, and the same sum returns to Vojvodina, with a possible variation of a few percent. We all know that Vojvodina is an area of very significant agricultural production, but a large number of MPs in the Assembly do not know that the participation of agricultural producers in the incomes of the Republic Health Insurance Institute, but also in other funds, only 2% or 3%, which is negligible. From there, it is clear that there is no big spillage of funds from Vojvodina to Serbia without talking about some kind of economic robbery. Many have spoken here, and the Prime Minister also said that decentralisation needs to be carried out, and they have particularly apostrophe of human resources policy, all in style that Belgrade should not place directors in the interior. Please, all written political people know that Belgrade has never set directors in the interior. They were stationed in these cities, and only a formal solution was written in Belgrade, whether it was the health minister, the minister of education, etc. Who decided about the directors in the interior? Local self-government and party authorities decided. That was before and that's how it is now. What's the difference? The difference in our time was that it was decided by the SPS, radicals, for example, lately, and now the directors are, in fact, deciding on them by the DOS members, so we have a situation that two schools control New Democracy, two Democratic Parties, the Democratic Party, etc. Why does Vojvodina want this to be formalized by signing? The minister is a member of the government, the minister is a symbol of statehood, and that is why Vojvodina wants solutions signed in Novi Sad. We are against the regional authorities, because the current model of triage is both in the area of social security and in all other areas quite good with existing districts that represent a particular continent. The model is good because it came from a democratic constitution. The 1990 Democratic Constitution is not only about us socialists, but also about the respected lawyer Aleksandar Vukic repeatedly spoke about the democratic structure of the 1990 Serbian Constitution and the SRJ Constitution in 1992. The proposal now offered by the DSS is much worse. He envisions Serbia's further simmering and crushing. It's like someone from the IMF or the government of the Western countries wrote it. (President: Mr. Bushettic, please return to the topic. ( b) Why the warning? We are against this law in general, because we know that it always begins with economic requirements and requirements in the area of the economy; then the requirements for re-editation in the field of culture and education, so that in the end there are decisive demands that the province has state attributes. (President: Time. Our experiences are bitter. Where's Vojvodina going? All we can think of is Kosovo and Metohija and 1981, when the Cypriots had a riot and when the Serbian police asked for permission, was in Kursumlia and asked permission to come to Kosovo and Metohija. That's what's going to happen to Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16869	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? What a replica, for a "honorable lawyer." Please, that was commendable. He just mentioned "honorable lawyer." Please, if this is an insult, the basis for the replica is "the esteemed lawyer Alexander Vukic".
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16870	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I thank Mr. Bushetic, but I must say, there is something that is not true. That's what you didn't listen to and that's what you don't understand, Mrs. Micic. It is true that the 1990 Constitution is incomparably more democratic than any previous constitution. That's certainly true. It is quite true that the 1990 Constitution is a step forward in relation to the 1974 Constitution's criminal solutions and the amendment that preceded it in 1968, 1969 and 1971. This is what I think, in the Serbian people, and not only in the Serbian people, but also in all lawyers there is no doubt. Why did I talk about it earlier, and what Mrs. Chairman doesn't understand? I was talking about the 1974 Constitution as a criminal solution; I was talking about a solution that gave the right, even before the amendments, to make the highest constitutional act of the province a constitutional law. The good solution to the 1990 Constitution is that the highest legal act of the province is the statute. That's absolutely true. Of course, we Serbian radicals cannot agree with all the solutions of the 1990 Constitution, but in any case it is an incomparably better solution than the 1974 Constitution. Those who are talking today about restoring jurisdiction, especially those of the autonomial or separatist political parties that are today talking about restoring jurisdiction, some allegedly kidnapped by the province of Vojvodina, must say they are returning to the worst constitution ever in this country, which is the 1974 Constitution. I'll remind you of the so-called. The Blue Book, for those who remember or for those who learned it. Professor Najdan Pasic, in his own time, made an analysis of the operation and functioning under the new 1974 Constitution, and in particular how the Republic of Serbia, which was then composed of three constituent elements, two autonomous provinces -- which even until the adoption of the constitution had no meaning at all, but one was an autonomous province, and the other autonomous area -- so on. Serbia. It's all about the devastating nature of such a constitution. Then they beat those currents that rule Serbia today. Draža Markovic, a 1978 titoist, remembers when he was appointed head of the Federal Assembly when he removed all his opponents; and those who wrote to him "Blue Book", all of them were removed and were no longer able to return to these communist parties. You rule today, you rule today. It's not history, it's today. (President: Time. Today Draža Markovic is the largest DOS. That's the point. We are fighting against it, and therefore the 1990 Constitution was incomparably better than the 1974 Constitution, but also the previous constitutional solutions. This constitution had shortcomings and had many shortcomings in the process of adoption itself, it had some other shortcomings as regards the state and national issues, as well as the 1992 SRJ Constitution, but all these were incomparably better solutions than those of the solution you are returning us to, in the time of Draža Markovic and some other time we thought had passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16871	Are any of the authorised participants in the debate coming forward for an amendment to Article 22? Please, MP Stevan G. Guduric, authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group for this item of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16872	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, an amendment that has been proposed by two colleagues from the SPS parliamentary group, says Article 22 is deleted because it is health insurance from the Social Insurance Corps that is regulated by federal regulations and it is not normal for a republican body to transfer other powers from federal regulations because it has not received them from them. Otherwise, this article first says it is the establishment of the Regional Health Insurance Institute, and says it is an organisational unit of the Republic Health Insurance Institute. However, everything that continues in this article's proposal does not seem to be an organisational unit, but rather looks like an organ to itself. If it's an organ for itself, then he has the attributes of statehood, and we've been talking for days that autonomy isn't exactly a state, even if it seems to be how some people understand it. They figured it out in 1974 until they lost it, so now they think it should be that way again. It's not normal for a lower organ to coordinate the work of a higher organ, at least so far it's not normal. It reads in point 1) "coordinates and exercises professional control", then writes point 3 "implements the procedure for issuing and using health books". Does this mean that Serbia will then be asked for health books and that we will have to look for some special instructions when we go to treatment from Vojvodina somewhere else like when we go abroad; will we have legislation that is different from others? They say in this article: "The district office has a sub-account through which payment and payment of the funds of the Republic Institute in the territory of the area of the province is made. " As it says, it should mean that everyone pays directly that money and that money from Vojvodina doesn't go to the Republic. Then again it means that the Republic gave up and gave the province something that did not belong to it. It is said: "The Director of the Regional Institute shall be appointed by the Governing Board of the Republic Institute, on a proposal from the competent authority of the Autonomous Province". Then, we have some other advocates, some amendments, some other parliamentary groups not to be appointed by the Republic Bureau but others, which in itself says what it is. Then it turns out that this director is being imposed on the Governing Board of the Republic Institute, that he is standing there as a supervisor and exists. All together, as well as a dozen other points and members of this law, it speaks of being a first step, as some of the parties and the legislators of this law have declared to the republic and the state of Vojvodina. Well, let the promoters check this out in the elections, because in Vojvodina, the majority animal has no special intention of moving from Serbia. Some may have, but let it be made plain and loud about it; let it be made plain and loud, and Mr. Kasa, whether he wants the property on this side or on the other side of the border, to be united, and to be all in the same state. So, you need to make it clear and loud and show it, not write some pamphlets, because at the end of the day, it basically didn't work out... (President: Mr. Guduric, I warn you to return to the agenda and have two warnings already. I'm saying that this wasn't even good in the basic part, and now it's with these amendments and nothing's been mutilated, and then it's got something that's really not worth it. We don't know who's going to need such a law at all, and we who live in Vojvodina -- thank you very much, no.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16873	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) I put the amendments to Article 22 to vote. For 56, against 93, abstention 19, was not voted 18, out of 186 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 22nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ratimir Svirčević, Zivica Predojev, Teodora Vlahovic and Karolj Kermeci. The proposing representative and the government have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does a representative of the applicants of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 12, against 119, with 19 abstention, 36 of the 186 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 22 of the amendment. The proposer's representative accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. Representative, Government and Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. The applicant of the amendment wants a word, please, the word has by the MP Veroljub Arsic, amendment to Article 22.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16874	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, it is already known from earlier presentations what Article 22 is about. Proposal for a Law: "The Regional Institute for Health Insurance is established, as an organisational unit of the Republic Health Insurance Institute", which has its specific competences listed in this proposal. The question is, how will health insurance work in the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia? There are known lists of medicinal products that are critical for patients. How will these medicines be obtained; will there be two lists, perhaps one list of the Regional Health Insurance Institute, and another list of the Republic? That it might not happen that the same drug in large quantities is being obtained by both institutions, and the other drug is missing? How will the health care system work on the issue of prescriptions and fees, because it can happen that, for example, a prescription issued on the territory of the AP Vojvodina drug is obtained on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, as Kardelj called it, when the Slovenians were setting up the country, along with the lamb brigades headed by Draza Markovic, and you are now trying to push the country through our country again according to the Slovenian principle. So, will it be possible to get such a cure in the territory of the so-called so-called area? Serbia's rope or vice versa, whether or not a drug that is, or a prescription issued on the territory of the so-called Serbia's rope to get a cure for him in Vojvodina? Will there also be compensation between the two institutions, the District and the Republic? Therefore, the SRS also suggested that Article 22 delete Article 4: "The district office has a sub-account through which payments and payments are made to the Republic of Slovenia in the territory of the AP". How unarranged you are in lawmaking, just to remind you, when the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Act was passed, you have abolished a special tax, a federal tax for the army of 3%, explaining that it reduces administration. Now you're passing the law and you're opening new sub-accounts. Aren't you reducing or increasing the administration now? Not to mention, when it comes to bank costs of 0.15%; that only on behalf of bank costs will health insurance pay three or four million dinars. Isn't it better to focus your money on getting drugs, sanity materials and hospital equipment? These are all questions that the legislator of this law must explain. Is that how our health insurance works? Furthermore, the regional office should have a director appointed by the board of directors on a proposal from the competent authority of the Autonomous Province, and that director of the Institute shall appoint the directors of the branches of the Republic Office who are educated in the territory of the Autonomous Province. That's article 7 of Article 22 of this law, for which we Serbian radicals have also suggested that it be deleted. By the way, the Director has unlimited authority. The funds financed by the Regional Institute are from the Republic Fund. The resolution minister will have no impact on the appointment of proposed directors, nor will he be able to replace them, unless the Director of the Regional Fund agrees, and he pays them even if they do not perform their duty, and if they are in the protection of the Director of the Regional Fund, their rights are unlimited. I think this amendment should be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16875	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Yes, MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16876	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I spoke a little longer than the Rules of Procedure and the President of the National Assembly allowed, so I couldn't respond to the threat of the National Assembly president taking action. That's why I am informing the MPs of the SRS, if Natasha Micic says, "Jozo, give the water," get out of the O.R.... (Milka Marinkovic, from the place: It's not water, it's macho! No, it was, "Jozo, get some water," but you don't watch TV, you didn't watch Milka 20 years ago kill the Chetniks. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, now the question is, what did the legislator want with this bill? Be careful, in article 22, the Proposer asked for great authority, authority, and set it up as a system throughout the bill. Then he accepted an amendment to the government of the Republic of Serbia, which destroys that Article 22 so that it was not necessary at all in this bill, even the health books can no longer be issued. The question arises, why did this bill, as a kind of trade, come to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? Whether it is told to the Proposer - asks for much; some MPs will jump to defend that it does not go so much, then we will find some balance, you will accept it and wait for a new constitution. What stems from this bill -- Serbia's decentralisation, obviously, but also the centralisation of Vojvodina, which is also obvious; the homogenisation of Vojvodina, in opposition to Belgrade. Because why would you say it's unnatural for the directors to be appointed by a headquarters in Belgrade, a board of directors in Belgrade, and it's natural for the directors of Vojvodina to set up a headquarters in Novi Sad. What's the difference, then, in those 80 kilometers? Is this about the principle, or is it about 80 kilometers? If it is a principle, if Belgrade was the centre of power, you say now -- let Belgrade be the centre of power, there will only be another power centre that will be called Novi Sad, and from the centre of power to the border between those two centres of power, it is a very short path. This whole law is centralizing the Vojvodina. Did you commit to, when you accepted different conditions from Europe and the world, to break Serbia and to remain a single Vojvodina? Well, how can a single Vojvodina remain, if you even adopt a bill like this? Will 100% of the population of Vojvodina be for this? Does Milo Djukanovic think he has consent among the citizens of Montenegro when he focused his hostility on Slobodan Milosevic and turned him into animosity towards Serbia. So, what now, where are we now? Do you have some liberal Vojvodina alliance that pushes you, and you as less sharp politicians, less rigid, find a measure in autonomy. Where there are measures in autonomy - no. There's no such thing as a measure. Every day, he looks for another field. There's no age or escape that's satisfied with what he had, but he's looking for another one, then another one, then another one. That's why I'm warning you-- you better accept these amendments, get the bill promoter crazy, get rid of the government and give up all this. Make at least one more bold move, like yesterday, or pointlessly, as some yesterday saw, that some of their DOS members were voting pressure on a particular color, even those who were intruding, because they were not thinking about anything. They ruined the bill yesterday. Let's once again hold back the National Assembly and think for ourselves, make these so-called. big, as they're already squatting on the embassies, they just temporarily came here to hold our letter, to seriously think about the country that the people, I admit, trusted them last year. But the people never trusted anyone forever, so neither DOS nor DOS parties. So, accept this amendment of ours, and let's see what the rapists do after that.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16877	Is anyone else answering for a word from the authorized participants in the debate? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 54, against 88, abstentioned 16, 26, a total of 184 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Petar Petrovic and MP Slobodan Tomovic. Representative, Government and Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There's a word from the applicant for the amendment, MP Petar Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16878	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the one who wanted to read this bill of restitution could see that all members here were alike, except for four or five members, 22, 23, 33, 51, and, I think, another. What's the difference? This numbered four members, as well as a member of the 23rd that the Soviet Union has proposed to delete, begins with: "A circuit fund is being established... "and so on. So, this law does not allow an autonomous province to do something, in accordance with the law and the statute, but this law immediately establishes the District Fund for Pension - Disabilities Insurance. I think, as well as the MP club of the Soviet Union, this is in direct contrast to the existing Republic law governing the area of disability and pension insurance, as well as the direct opposite of the Statute of the Republic Fund of pension -- disability insurance. And the second question here is -- what about the Republic Fund for Farmer Insurance; is it united or not covered here, because it is not seen from this bill. If further careful consideration is given to what is the jurisdiction of the circuit fund, if established, he - point 1) - performs "preparation and production of materials for negotiations with foreign pension and disability insurance carriers". Now, there's a rabbit, and then the Duke wants, through the circuit fund, to take over the powers that are in the exclusive jurisdiction of the Republic, to negotiate with the ino-security bearers, pension disability insurance. On the other hand, the question arises - what will it do, how will it work and to whom the current funds, which exist in the territory of the autonomous province, whose directors have been appointed by the Director of the Republic of the Pension and Invalidity Fund and which correspond directly to the Governing Board of the Republic Fund. Besides funds, there are, as is known, smaller places and others, lower forms of organisational units. Whether they're units, they're already out of departments, or whatever they're called, it doesn't matter. There, pensioners exercise their rights under the Pension - Disabilities Insurance Act. Is this how the circuit fund will create a new organisational scheme for these units in the AP Vojvodina? On the other hand, point 4 states: "The district fund has a sub-account through which payments and payments are made to the Republic Fund on the territory of the Autonomous Province". Does this mean that pensioners from the territory of the AP Vojvodina will sooner or later receive their pensions in relation to other users from the territory of the rest of the Republic of Serbia? If there's any money in this fund, maybe they'll get it sooner, and if there's no money, then maybe they'll get their pension later, which they've earned. On the basis of everything, it is obvious that, through the establishment of this fund, the AP is gradually detached from the Republic of Serbia, to get all the attributes of the Republic, so that the next day will make it easier to take that final step and separate one inalienable part of the Republic of Serbia from its queen. I don't think that, ladies and gentlemen, it's going to be that easy. The Serbian Unity Party guarantees to all Serbs in the APV territory that it will fight with a hearty struggle for Vojvodina to remain who it is, and that is an integral part of the indivisible Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16879	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? There's a word from MP Stevan G. Guduric.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16880	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, MP Slobodan Tomovic of the SPS parliamentary group, said in his amendment that article 23 was deleted because he stepped into an area not listed as the province's normative jurisdiction; he even stepped into the sphere of legislative jurisdiction, the federal state. It is particularly unconstitutional that with this member and even a draft of the law on autonomy and under the Constitution of Serbia, there is no property of state where businesses that can only be done as state are entrusted. Autonomous province, according to its constitutional being, cannot be the bearer of such a business, i.e. These jobs can't be in her normative work. At the beginning of Article 22, it says -- "the rural fund for pension and disability insurance is established... ", then it is further said "that the circuit fund, alongside the affairs established by law and statute... ". How can he do that when he's writing it in law and statute? That fund needs to be established. So he doesn't know the Republic Fund, and there's supposed to be something changing. Here, it's decidently said, "The district fund, along with the law-set jobs... "He can't do it first, because something needs to be passed on to him. Once again, we have the same story as in the previous article, with an unexplained dilemma whether all the money from Vojvodina comes to that fund, because that's about what it says. There are already branches of the Republic Fund in the current member; the establishment of another organ between the Republic Fund and the subsidiaries. There's nowhere to be proposed that branches be abolished and another level of administration is created that is inevitably costing, because no administration has ever done anything for nothing, so neither will this part of the job. The question is, if someone basically asks, as a legislator of this law, where is our money, then every segment in Vojvodina could ask the same gentleman, according to the 1974 Constitution, where is our money? Because it was no simpler to get to our money when we were looking for them in Novi Sad than when we were looking for them in Belgrade. No one understood in your election campaign that you would just move the centres of power from Belgrade elsewhere, that they would be centralized and served for something else, but you were telling another story -- that the state would decentralised. That should go towards the municipalities, not the province. The new Sad is just a geographical concept and the name of the city. If we say we're going to pick up money in Novi Sad, it doesn't mean the city of Novi Sad, it's to the province institutions and where money can't be made either, as it couldn't have been for all those times when money was in second place. So you're not advocating anything new, you're advocating something we didn't even like back then. Therefore, it is not a question of economy. The duke is in a unique Serbia. When that part is proposed by some normal law, then we can decide or support it. You hardly have any support in Vojvodina, and you keep drilling your chest with some success in 2002, when there was no 48 seconds of silence. Go back to the election.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16881	Anyone else want a word? The word has been given by the People's Messenger Zivica Predojev.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16882	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, after two days of harassment, I had to go out for a pay phone. There's always a lot more where that came from. The first thesis, which the previous speaker just said and re-placed here, is that the motioner of this law is unauthorized. That's absolutely not true. The proposer of this law is very legal and legitimate. There are representatives of the citizens of Vojvodina who are free to vote, or whatever you want, they win. They were assigned to protect the interests of the Vojvodina and that task was defined by this law. That's a fact. Also, you are calling for elections, as far as I know, in that House you have two representatives. It's normal to count that you can't get less. Here some appear as great defenders of the Vojvodina, who also demand elections. I think it's very important when deciding on a law like this. I think that's very important, dear gentlemen. I don't understand your calls to the election. It's normal if I don't have anything, I can make a constitution. Don't throw it away. [[Zagor in the O.R.]] Another thing here is trying to break one thesis. Everyone's bothered with the founding of the circuit fund. The circuit fund existed. Because he existed, Vojvodina did not split from Serbia. It is said that this is how Vojvodina is secededed from Serbia. It's absolutely incorrect. It is not an occupation zone here, it is part of Serbia that became part of the decision of the Great National Assembly, with the free will of Vojvodina and Vojvodina joined the Croatian and Slovenian communities. Let's get out of here. (Glass: not true. It's true, gentlemen. (President: I ask the speaker to return to the amendment and Article 23) I think the amendment is absolutely ridiculous.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16883	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the 23rd People's MPs Petar Petrovic and Slobodan Tomovic to vote. For 59, against 79, abstentions 14, 29 of the 181 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 23rd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ratimir Svirčević, Zivica Predojev, Todor Vlahovic and Karolj Kermeci. The proposing representative and the government have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 9, against 124, abstention 14, 33 of the 180 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Stevan Kesejic. The proposing representative and the government have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There's a word from MP Stevan Kesejic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16884	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legal; of course, he could not say otherwise. Why? Because this law is not legally possible at all. This law is counter-constitutional, and so is this member I have submitted the amendment to. Before I explain what this amendment is about, I must say that I am really ashamed to belong to the people of Serbia, the northern part of Serbia, and that at the same time I have to blush when another representative comes out and tries to share us in Serbia, to share us in Vojvodina, especially considering this 23rd member of the pension and disability insurance, where it is said about one really trendy intention of separatism, the division of Serbs into Serbs, the Serbs came to Serbs from the south, Serbs from the north, etc. Why should these members be divided by Serbs, pensioners and disabled insurance, who through their work have achieved their pension and disability insurance throughout the territory of Yugoslavia? Why would any Serb in any part of Serbia be privileged? Therefore, the headquarters of the province's New Sad fund would be a body that would have the fund, while at the same time we have the southern province of Kosovo and Metohija that would not have the fund. Not only Kosovo and Metohija, but the rest of Serbia would also not have some separate total fund to hold. That's what it's all about right now is the intention of separatism. It is one of the most obvious examples of the proponents to - as they say - where our money is taken from other citizens because of some egoism, without taking care of the rest of the citizens living in Serbia, and they created the same conditions, working and creating pension and disability insurance, i.e. those funds. In particular, I need to look at point 1), where we are talking about preparing and making materials for negotiations with abroad and the holders of pension and disability insurance. It is obvious that it is about the proposal to take over the powers and powers that do not belong to it, and these are the powers of the state, where autonomous policy in one of the most cynical ways is trying, perfidically, to a small door to come out of Europe. Nenad Canak, with some MPs from the Democratic Party, has already done so by going to Osijek for the bowing and apology of Ustasha chiefs, the mayor of Osijek... (President: I ask the MP to take care of the extent of the culture of speech he uses for the speaker, of qualifications relating to other persons. These are the facts. Even the media published a visit to the mayor of Osijek by Nenada Chanka. Which is why it would now offend you if I were to say about this, because Nenad Canak seems to want to continue through this law to go to Mesic and Kucan, to apologize for being expelled by Serbs, for killing Serbs, and for doing this in a propaganda, or anti-propaganda against the Serb people. For these reasons, this member speaks of something else; not only about selfishness and the desire to create an economic separatist fund, but about a political claim to create a Republic of Vojvodina. For all the prerogatives listed in Article 23 in paragraphs 4 and 7 are in favour. Therefore, Serbian Radical Party MPs believe that the powers belonging to the Republic of Serbia under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 72, cannot be given into the jurisdiction of the province of Vojvodina, because these members are not talking about trusting certain businesses, but are talking about the powers to be taken over by the District Fund for Pension and Disabilities Insurance. (President: six minutes. I therefore propose that MPs of the Republic Assembly accept this amendment and thus demonstrate the patriotism and will of the entire Serbian people not to allow a small handful of the Social Democrats of Vojvodina not to break Serbia, as she tried to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16885	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? There is a word from MP Tomislav Nikolic, a representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16886	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have heard everything and everything in the reasonings of this law, especially from those who have proposed the law, almost as if they hadn't suggested it - don't read it as you read it, but read it and interpret it as we suggest in the pay phone exits, and how we behave in Vojvodina, these are controversial cases. It is that every one of us in these controversial cases participates, but don't be so intimidated by it, don't let it bother you so much. What's going on with article 23? The Regional Fund for Pension and Disabilities Insurance is being established. Well, I guess you're here, at least you've been involved in some law-making or law enforcement. There are you who have the duty to point out to the National Assembly that one fund cannot be established in this way. What else is missing here? When a fund is established, there is no view of what its organs are, who chooses the authorities, who are its acts, who adopts acts, who gives consent to acts. And this isn't Prcilovica -- a circuit fund is being established. I ask you - does this circuit fund have a board of directors; does it have a board of directors; does it have a statute? Who will now, when it is not a law, and it is in the establishment of a fund, to predict, and who will now and by what act to provide that the fund has a board of directors, how many members, who proposes members on that board, whether whoever chooses the board of directors chooses immediately and the chairman of the board of directors or board of directors chooses the president himself. Who's going to declare the statute? Who's going to give consent to the statutes? A circuit fund is being established and we have satisfied those who are talking about money according to Vojvodina and, here is the Regional Health Fund, social security, for the fight, pension -- disability protection. In four members, you start one fund and it starts working tomorrow. Tomorrow the funds arrive at the fund's expense, tomorrow the funds are paid off from the fund's account, and you don't know who pays them, or what decisions they make, or who makes the decisions about it. Who is it that will continue to resolve the fate of the fund - the authority of the autonomous province? You've even dared to say "autonomous province's competent authority" in a few members here. You're starting a new fund and you're saying "the competent authority." Now who's the competent authority when it's something new? Who's going to judge who's the competent authority? It's legal matter, and it's all regulated by law, not by the decisions of the Duke's Parliament. Does the congregation have that fund? It refers to many citizens of the Autonomous Region. No, it's enough for you to write four members, and then you'll discuss those four members, so that the Vlachs don't know, and then everything will go the way you want. Here's a story about this proposal to protect the Duke's law. From whom is it protected by the Duke? In the Republic of Serbia, DOS is in power, there is DOS in the autonomous province, in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, DOS is in power. Lucky for DOS, and an accident for all those in possession of DOS. Who are you protecting yourself from now? You're on your own. Stand in front of the mirror. Are you so suicidal you'll kill yourself? Stand in front of the mirror, slam your head a little bit. You're telling us here that, when DOS came to power, Vojvodina must be protected, and I'm telling you -- ever since DOS came to power, children, students, students, workers, soldiers, unemployed, patriots, citizens, journalists -- everyone has to protect themselves from DOS, you've hit everything equally.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16887	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 51, against 80, abstentioned 16, 27 of the 174 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 23 of the amendment. The proposer's representative accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Members of the 24th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Dragan Markovic and MP Zoran Radovanovic. Representative, Government and Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. The word is Zoran Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16888	Dear Presidents of the Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the basis of Articles 142 and 143. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have submitted an amendment to Article 24. The draft law laying down certain competences of the autonomous province, and I asked that this member be deleted. Among the specific issues listed in the 24 designated areas and in other areas that would be entrusted to an autonomous province, which in reality can be more favourable at regional level, means at the central level, a central issue is being raised which cannot possibly be in the jurisdiction of the autonomous province, which is the issue of administrative and general supervision of the application of the relevant republican laws. Autonomous province, whose laws are not, cannot control the legality of the application of these laws. Through Article 24. The bill shows all the perfidence and hypocrisy of this proposal. As the one who reported us here on this proposal -- Nenad Canak -- says it's so bad that you can't accept it, but it would be even better if you didn't vote it, so that I could handle my problem by some other means. The explanation given along with this proposal says very naively: "For the sake of better and more effective exercise of the rights laid down by law and the functioning of the social protection system, this law proposes bringing rights in this area closer to the beneficiary of the right... "and so on. This explanation and planting to the citizens of Vojvodina, where they should think that if we vote against this law, we are also against the autonomy of Vojvodina, and we will certainly vote against this law. I repeat once again that the Socialists have never been and will never be against the autonomy of Vojvodina or Kosovo and Metohija as a province, but exclusively in the interests of this country, the countries of Serbia. Article 9. The constitution of the SRJ, and you all have constitutions, but you read them weakly, Section One says, "The SRJ is founded on the rule of law"; and Section 2: "The laws must be in agreement with the Constitution. "Article 65. The Constitution of the SRJ says: "Every one is obliged to adhere to the Constitution, the law, other regulations, as well as general acts"; and Section 2: "Every one is obliged to perform his function with honor and responsibility." I'm particularly an apostropheist. I'm asking you whether it's honorable and responsible when a man, an interpreter of this bill, breaks the table of RTS -- and with some words -- "creep," etc., who told you here that this bill, this same omnibus, is very good. Let's go in order, Article 24. point 1) says: "The closer it edits, in accordance with material possibilities, other rights in the field of social protection, greater rights than the rights laid down by law and more favourable conditions for their achievement... "and so on. Both the constitutions, the SRJ and the Republic of Serbia, guarantee equality to citizens throughout our country's territory, and here, through greater scope of rights and more favourable conditions, offers absolute inequality to citizens, which is absolutely unacceptable to me. Article 24(2) says: "the province is founded... "; point 3) says: "names administrative and supervisory committees... ", it represents something where it once again enters the direct jurisdiction of the Republic. Point 4 of Article 24 of this proposal states: "it gives consent to the proposal for a decision on a network of social protection institutions for the accommodation of users... ". I repeat that it is clear to the trainee, not to the lawyer, that the lower body cannot give consent to the higher body. Point 5) as well. Points 7), 8) and 9) of this article are again anti-constitutional. I think the government has submitted an amendment to this member and as such has been adopted, because the lower authority cannot give some consent to the higher authority. What does Article 24, as well as the whole bill mean? I'll try to explain it simply. For example, my local community is looking for autonomy. I have all the prerogatives for it: I have a scarf, I have a primary and a high school, so we've solved the problem of education. We have a word and a transformer, we can buy electricity and, what's important, we have a few acres for agriculture; we have me as a personal physician; we will be recognized by the European Community and the world and we will be one big and powerful state, and I will be the first man in that country. (President: By the way, I warn you that you have exceeded your time. Why am I saying this? In the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 26 states: "It is forbidden to perform on a man without his permission, without medical or other scientific examinations", and in my opinion, neither one who proposed this has the right nor is allowed to conduct experiments on the citizens of Vojvodina nor on all of us in this Serbia. What I'm trying to say and I'm ending up with -- the people of Vojvodina, if Canak is leading you like he sings and as he drives the engine, we've all rewarded together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16889	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Here you are, MP Stevan G. Guduric, authorised representative of the SPS for this item of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16890	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, an amendment has been submitted to Article 24 which says that the member is deleted. When we read certain points a little more carefully, then we see that simply the promoter could not take the impression and write that he wrote it or maybe copied it from 1974, because even then some things in Serbia were given consent in Vojvodina and Kosovo and Metohija. We can hardly consider it normal for a lower body to give consent; so the province's authority will give consent to the Republic's authority. That's what we saw in that 1974 constitution. We also saw in practice that it was only in the Constitution. Since there were some illusions here, I didn't want to, and there's enough coming out and no replicas, no one has ever disputed that the Vojvodina Assembly is legal, but, hardly, it's legitimate, because the assembly of MPs in the Vojvodina Assembly is images of October's events. That picture is not a reflection of politics, nor political forces in Vojvodina, nor national or religious schedules, nor anything else, so it's said as it is said, let's check ourselves. When you're so confident, we socialists can go worse than we've been through -- try us; and I just think that this fate that you're talking about, that it can go worse than not having one time, it's waiting primarily for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16891	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 49, against 83, abstention 16, 25, a total of 173 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. The speaker accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic submitted to the 24th amendment. Representative, Government and Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16892	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS Parliamentary Group has tabled an amendment to Article 24. A bill of law, which I now explain here. In that amendment, we ask for the word "consensus" in Article 24(1) in points 4 and 5) to be replaced by "thinking" and that the position of this member of the bill be deleted. We believe that the amendment achieves the unity of competence in the regulation of this area throughout the Republic. Article 24(4) says: Autonomous province, through its bodies, in accordance with the law governing the area of social protection: it gives consent to a proposal for a decision on a network of social protection institutions for the accommodation of users who are taking the Republic, in a work relating to the network of institutions in the territory of the Autonomous Province." It is clear that if the province gives consent, it means that the Republic cannot affect that network of institutions until the province decides. Then why is it not fairer to write that the province decides on a network of institutions, because ultimately, it all comes down to the same thing. That's right in point 5 of this article. We think that there really should be some autonomy because of the speciality of Vojvodina, and that autonomy, that autonomy is sufficient to the extent that any solution that applies to the territory of the AP Vojvodina requires the opinion of this autonomous repentance that is being discussed, and therefore a final proposal is being made that will be good for all citizens of the AP Vojvodina. This is too much independence. We are coming back to the same situation as Serbia was limited by two then self-government Autonomous provinces and that no decision could be taken without the province's consent. Often the provinces voted against the interest of the entire Republic. So, in principle, the rest of Serbia was then an autonomy within two independent areas: Kosovo and Metohija and Vojvodina. I would remind you again, in front of the SRS, Madam Chairman, that Amendment number V, which the Government has submitted to Article 16. The bill could not have been an integral part of the bill and could not have been accepted by the proposings, since the National Assembly refused the amendment. I call on Members of Parliament to vote in favour of the amendment submitted by the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16893	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Here you go. National MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16894	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is one in a series of amendments that we have submitted, which also regulate very similar matter. I see that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has read our amendments and, in part, one of our amendments has accepted and included in its proposal, which was first rejected by the Proposer, and then changed his mind within an hour, carried out all the necessary consultations with all the authorities of the hunting grounds in Vojvodina and decided to accept. It is points 4 and 5) of Article 24. To remind you, the promoter requested that the Autonomous Province give its consent to the proposal for a decision on a network of social protection institutions for the accommodation of users who are bringing the Republic into the work concerning institutions in the territory of the Autonomous Province, as well as to give consent to the appointment of the Director of the Centre for Social Labour in the territory of the Autonomous Province. The government intervened at point 4) and demanded that it be not a consensus but an opinion, because only point 4 of God is threatened by the unique space of the Republic. The government notes that certain facilities for the accommodation of persons at risk are not only on the territory of Serbia or only Vojvodina, i.e., the government says - if there are no facilities in Vojvodina for the accommodation of disabled persons, there is, for example, in Petrovac at Mlava; do not build in Vojvodina, let us make one amendment so that it is just an opinion, not your consent, because there is a facility for the accommodation of blind persons in Vojvodina, that we do not make it in Serbia. I'd say a man, all reasonable and all useful. That's how the whole law was to be combed. These are the departments of authority reviewed, and here, the minister of social protection found something to be resented, and if they wanted ministers, they could say, toss this paper because it doesn't look like anything. Point 5) reads "Autonomic province gives consent to the appointment of a director of a social work centre in the territory of an autonomous province". What kind of consent is that now? The one who has the right to appoint a director, he doesn't need any consent. That appointment is subject to legal control after all, but if you empower someone to appoint a director, what kind of consent does he need? Then let the one who gives consent appoint the director. What degree these are, and how many administrations will be in the autonomous province, because they will name one, the others will give consent, the third will review consent, the fourth in a second-degree procedure will solve more citizens from the Vojvodina territory, who seek protection on certain issues, will have no right to move beyond Novi Sad at all. There will be both the first and second degrees. Why didn't you set the dishes up like that? You will, you will. (On pitches, probably, Z. Micovic. It's easy for you from Ariel, easy for you, hills all around, until they get to you, we're all gonna die in the woods, and you're gonna die easy. You're gonna go do the trick and throw, and we're gonna go work and die. You've never come out here to say anything human. You don't have to talk to me, you tell the people of Serbia. It would be good for you to come out and see who they chose. What's this about? Good, I like you to use all your organs, including the organ of speech, even by getting out of the bench. Sometimes I feel like you don't have any organs, some I see to you, but the ones I need to...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16895	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 37, against 78, abstentioned 16, 37 of the 168 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 25th amendment. Representative, Government and Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Do you want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16896	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, an amendment which, in front of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted to Article 25, is in line with the concept and, above all, with constitutional provisions, for which the parliamentary group of SRS has been uninterrupted since the start of the debate. Namely, this is where you're asked to get into art. Delete paragraph 2. Article 1 states: "Autonomic province, through its authorities, in accordance with the law governing legal protection, family and custody, performs tasks of the second-degree body in relation to the solutions of the custody authorities from the territory of the autonomous province". So this is just a follow-up to that story from the beginning where we say that jobs from this first position, as well as many of the jobs you've listed in the members of this unconstitutional law, can't be determined in this way by giving jurisdiction to an autonomous province. Here, an autonomous province appears as a second-degree body, and in many members of this law, positive legal regulations, hence applicable laws, appear both as first-degree and second-degree bodies. There will be a complete erosion in our legal order, there will be one chaos that no one will know anymore, and you of the Dossovite majority do not want to know for yourselves, nor are you interested in how all this will work legally and what will be done by the AP Vojvodina, the circuit assembly and the Executive Council, to accept as laws of the Republic of Serbia, or the Republic of Serbia, and what they will do on their own. However, from all of this it is quite obvious that it is not acting in accordance with the powers that the AP Vojvodina has under the statutes, which is its highest legal act, is only possible, as we keep telling you, that the jurisdiction of the Autonomous Province is determined in accordance with the statute; this is about a general kidnapping of jurisdiction, and it is known what it introduces us to. This introduces us to the goal that all of Broz communists, separatists, traitors of the Serb people in the northern Serbian province, are in a hurry to come out with their constitutional solutions as soon as possible and to declare the constitution, as they say - the Republic of Vojvodina. All of this is, in fact, all of these provisions of this kind of super-secessionist law, which you called - the omnibus law, the introduction to it. The very fact that this law gives administrative oversight, which was referred to, in higher schools, in colleges, in conducting an expert state exam, etc. It defies the provisions of the Constitution, Articles 71, 108, 109 and 110, and speaks in favour of what concerns not only Serbs in Vojvodina but Serbs in the territory of all Serbia and the SRJ: what will happen to the northern part of Serbia after the adoption of such a law? And, look at the irony, this Article 25, is subdued under a chapter called the Legal Protection of Family and Custodials. Which of you can today, who is serious and normal, and belongs to the DOS parliamentary group, explain to us that Nenad Canak and his click in Vojvodina will protect families in Serbia and make sure that the law that should apply on the territory of the entire Republic of Serbia is applied, not that they will take everything they need to have a state in the country and that they will quickly separate Vojvodina from Serbia. Who's the one who can explain to us how far this is going to lead us, and what's going to happen after this law is passed? Yesterday, a call from the SRS foreign group to consider, if you have at all, your actions, not to press routinely against the only real amendments submitted by the SRS and other opposition parties, but obviously you are not interested. As the day goes by, you are getting tired of this debate, not because you are constructively involved in it, but because you want the time to pass as soon as possible, and for Vojvodina, for Serbia, for the Serbian people, you don't care.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16897	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. 43, against 83, abstention 17, did not vote 25, out of 168 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Markovic. Representative, Government and Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. The applicant for the amendment is not present. Does anyone else want a word? He doesn't want to. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 41, anti-80, abstention 17, 30, a total of 168 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Vucurovic. Representative, Government and Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He has the word National MP Bozidar Vucurovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16898	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS parliamentary group has tabled an amendment to Article 26, which the legislator, the Government and the Legislative Committee have rejected, explaining that it does not comply with the concept of this law. That, believe me, is for me the biggest compliment I've had from our dear government, the secretariat and the bill promoter ever since I entered this assembly. Of course it is not in line with the concept of this separatist law, but it is therefore in line with the concept of the SRS. From the very title of the law, which we have asked for to be changed and called a law on the confidence of certain matters in the Autonomous province, it is that Article 2 in this article is unnecessary, because, if the law were called what it is called, attitude 2 would not be at all. However, another thing that is incorrectly explained and incorrectly expressed in the explanation of the applicant for this bill is that it will not be necessary to provide additional funds in the Republic of Serbia's budget, which is simply not true. Social care for children in this republic, among other things, is being carried out by the Ministry of Social Care for Children for the time being, and the Ministry exists. In Vojvodina, as far as I know, there is no such regional secretariat, and there is no similar service at the level of the autonomous province. So it will be necessary to form a new service, a bureaucratic apparatus will be multiplied, normally, and all will require additional resources. Whether the newly-formed institution will now be called the province's secretary of social care for children, or will be called - a commission for the social care of the Vojvodina County, it is not a matter, but it will therefore be necessary to provide additional funding from the Republic of Serbia's budget. Regardless of what I think any of the ministers of the current government are doing their job wrong, I must say that I think that Mrs. Matkovic can and does this job much better than any of the people who brought us this paper (I can't even call this a bill, this is a simple paper) for adoption. Who will take care of the children of Vojvodina whose president is Nenad Canak, and against his system of autonomy is 80% of the population of Vojvodina, and that will say, in his words, 80% of the Nazi children live today in Vojvodina, because all those who are not for his concept of law are Nazis. How's he gonna take care of those Nazi kids in the camps? Or how will they take care of the children of those who, among themselves, in the press, call each other thieves, criminals, frauds, etc.? (President: Mr. Vukurovic, I warn you to return to the agenda topic. Ma'am, I'd really like you to point me to a place where you learn a high-frequency speech spoken by your MPs here, because you obviously don't hear them. I'd like to talk so that you don't hear me, too, so that you don't warn me, because when someone comes out here, and then the amendment to Article 22, which has no mild connection with the Great People's Assembly, talks about the Great People's Assembly, you close your ears very nicely or tells such a frequency that you don't hear it. They would take care of the children, as some party officials would say (if I didn't remain in your debt): "I would take care of the children, honestly tell you, but I prefer two children, I won't lie to you."
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16899	Is anyone else answering for word on this amendment? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 43, anti-80, abstention 21, did not vote 28, a total of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Representative, Government and Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There is a word from MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16900	I would therefore like to draw attention to the fact that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is being torn down in the most harsh way, as some powers are being given to the AP Vojvodina, which the Constitution does not foresee at all. First of all, when I have invested this amendment, which concerns martial law and disability protection, I have in mind the constitutional provision of Article 68, that this area is exclusively governed by the Republic of Serbia. Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which speaks of the rights and duties of the Republic, stipulates, among other things, that this area is exclusively regulated by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and that it falls under the jurisdiction of the state of the Republic of Serbia. All tasks that can be entrusted to another authority can only be entrusted to execution, but it is the duty of the Republic to be responsible for their execution. If you transfer this much power to the APV, it loses its legal sovereignty in a number of affairs and can in itself conclude that Vojvodina becomes, with these powers, an independent state. When it comes to fighting and disability protection, Article 72 of Article 6 states that the health, social protection, martial and disability protection system in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia falls under the exclusive jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia. The attempt to bring down the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia on a small door is this as they interpret the Constitution and the bill, but not in the right way. In Article 109. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has not said a single word that the Constitution has authorized anyone to take over and to be entrusted with the affairs of martial and disability protection. So, the Serbian Radical Party believes this is the harshest possible way to bring down the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, tear down and trample the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, as the proposer so skillfully, concisely and insidiously approaches the takeover of certain powers by the state of the Republic of Serbia, on page 40. A bill of law, where he says, "Competences from other areas... ". What other areas are these: a judicial exam, then a professional exam for the work of the authorities of the state administration; the seals of state and other bodies; a civil ombudsman; judicial interpreters and a network of courts.... (President: Please return to the topic. ) As they try to assume the powers that are exclusive to the jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia, some of the powers that even our Constitution and the Federal Constitution have not yet foreseen are being taken over. The Ombudsman's institution is not regulated by the Republic's regulation. You see, Vojvodina will introduce the institute past the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and past the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Ladies and gentlemen of the DOS, please, if you think it is possible for fighting and disability protection, which falls within the area of Article 109 to transfer jurisdiction to an autonomous province, interpret it in a proper and valid manner and inform Serbian citizens that it is possible. I'm telling you it's a scam from the citizens of Serbia and it's absolutely impossible.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16901	Is anyone else answering for this amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16902	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, as much more clearly in the bill's proposal after our debate on amendments, so should you also treat Article 27. It's a bill of law, which gets in the way of a lot of laws. You should also think of yourself as normal people to ask yourself: why separate martial arts and disability protection in Serbia and protection in Vojvodina? Will not the battle for, God forbid, if it comes to this, the defence of the state be unique; will not every citizen of the Republic of Serbia have the same rights and obligations to respond and to give his maximum, so that the state will defend itself? Then, when that goes by, then he will wait for different regulations: one, if he is mobile on the territory of the Great Plane or if he is mobile in Valjevo, the other if he is mobile in the territory of Pancheva. How is it that, when the Constitution itself has not separated at all, nor has it foreseen, not one of its provisions, that in any way this protection should be separated and transferred to any other body other than the Republic of Serbia, the Autonomous province and local self-government. How does this bill get in the way of these rights? The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 68(1), clearly states that these funds are provided in the Republic of Serbia's budget. Well, how, then, on the basis of point 4) of the autonomous province, does the control of funds intended for the exercise of rights of martial law and disability? Since when is this scheduled for the Serbian budget to be controlled by an entity of an autonomous province? What does that mean now? Isn't there a budget inspection? The budget will be fully controlled, and in the second degree solve, the organs of the autonomous province. You'll be long gone, not to say you've come far. I've received a letter from fighters who are very concerned about what you're preparing for them, although they say they don't trust what you're doing so far. They filed the evidence. A big debate is being held in public; someone accuses the DSS of scurrying with Ali Delamustafic to take him into Serbia's territory. (President: I warn you to get back on the subject. ) However, I received a letter of proof that Serbian Prime Minister and a member of the National Security Council issued premises to Alija Delamutafic. (President: Mr. Nikolic, for the last time I warn you to return to the agenda. ) Let's see who threatens the fighters of this war by placing their enemies on the territory of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16903	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 43, against 76, with 20 abstentions, three of the 172 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 28th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Representative, Government and Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the MP Gordana Pop-Lazic want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16904	Gentlemen Members of Parliament, I will explain, on behalf of the SRS Parliament Club, an amendment to Article 28 of this law, which, unfortunately, is still in the process, although it would be most normal to withdraw. I believe that at the end of this debate, the epilogue will be the withdrawal of this law, because it must have become clear to all of you, as well as to the DOS, that something like this is unsustainable in the Republic of Serbia. Article 28 concerns the protection of civilian disabled war. The argument that would go with our amendment to delete the position of the 2nd member is exactly the same as the argument that my distinguished colleague Petar Jojic made regarding Article 27, concerning martial and disability protection. I wouldn't have called on the Constitution again if I didn't have to warn you about Article 68 again. Article 1(1), second subparagraph, point (b) and (c) of the first subparagraph of paragraph 1 shall apply. The constitution, which clearly states that these transactions cannot be transferred to the jurisdiction of the autonomous province. This amendment also has the principled position of the Serbian Radical Party, beginning with the first amendment, that this law cannot bear such a title, but the title not in terms of language interpretation, but in the context of content, because the law cannot determine the competences established by the Constitution, but can then be transposed and then, possibly, to discuss what can be transferred, what is in the interest of the Republic to transfer from its jurisdiction to the province and what is not. It means that we have in mind efficiency and rationality, not creating conditions for some future appetites of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina. This member may be better than anyone showing the undisciplinedness of the promoter, although we have seen through the previous members that some competences are determined as original, some of them are transferred; here all these responsibilities that are numbered – as regards ensuring functioning in the field of the protection of civil invalids of war, overseeing the legality of work and acts of the authorities that in the first degree resolve the rights and protection of civil invalids of war, the control of the spending of funds intended to achieve rights in the field of protection of civil invalids of war and the establishment of a database - are determined as trusted transactions. It is said in the explanation that only the second-degree body’s tasks are left out in the administrative procedure and audit of the first-degree solutions, since the provision of Article 11. The Civil Disabilities War Law stipulates that these matters for the territory of the AP Vojvodina are being carried out by the relevant provincial authority. So this has already been entrusted to an autonomous province, but a special law that regulates this area and that's the only real solution. So, in all system laws, it was necessary to determine what can be passed, what needs to be passed on, possibly, to an autonomous province, and not to this kind of "shinobus" law, as you call it. Given the importance of the entire area regulated by this member, I only wonder if the fighters, the civilian disabled of the war, Nenad Canak will take care of it the way it should in the Vojvodina area, as he said here in his address, in front of the MPs, that the 1990 Constitution is war-human, because since the adoption of this constitution began with war-human propaganda. So how, then, will he and his like, from his click, take care of those who defended Serbian national interests, those who became disabled thanks to NATO bombs, which you amnesty of responsibility and gave up even war damage. Does the state of Serbia have the right to give all of this up and leave it to one Nenad Canka and similar to him to care about it, it is up to you to decide. That is why I invite you to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16905	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Please, MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16906	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, members 27 and 28. The bill is regulated by martial law and civil disabled war protection, and very interestingly by the legislator, and also by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, they did not want or did not know, but did not limit the powers they now trust the Autonomous province only for the territory of the Autonomous province. He told us here yesterday, the minister of justice how all the laws are interpreted. Whatever you're interpreting, Article 28. The bill, you cannot claim that an autonomous province will operate in the area of the protection of civilian disabled wars only on the territory of an autonomous province. In all the areas so far, regulated by an autonomous province, it has always been spoken of - the territory of an autonomous province, on the territory of an autonomous province. Suddenly here, in Articles 27 and 28, it turns out that an autonomous province will do, i.e. to ensure the functioning of the protection of civil people with disabilities, to oversee legality, to control funds in the territory of the entire Republic of Serbia. For if he say, according to the law which it is regulated; there the law of an autonomous province is not set aside. This is the only law in which the jurisdiction of an autonomous province stands out. And you now say - the autonomous province will ensure the functioning of the protection of civilian disabled wars. Where? In Serbia's territory? You don't say - on the territory of an autonomous province. Or - from the territory of an autonomous province. What happens if civil disabled war moves from the territory of an autonomous province somewhere, say, to Pirot? Then what are you going to do? To make an interstate agreement, like the ones we have with many countries in the world, to recognise the right; or to arrive at his privileges from the Vojvodina. It is not easy to write, a bill of only one law, and this law has dared to enter more than 30 laws written by more serious people than those who are thinking today. Somehow, the era of writing the law has come with you by the password, "We'll do it easily." You see, the Constitution says that the law cannot be applied retroactively, and only certain provisions, which are laid down by the draft law of general interest, can only be applied retroactively. The last member of this law says it will apply from 1 January 2002. So the whole law is retroactive. Someone may later remember to delete that point, but it is missed by all the secretariats for the legislation, all the ministries miss and arrive before the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. A non-constitutional member of the Bill’s bill, on which many civil servants were paid, arrives before the National Assembly for adoption. Then someone will tell you -- you have to vote for this, and you have to, even though you know it's counter-constitutional. And today you're sitting here and you know you're going to have to vote for this law and you have to reject all the amendments that both mind and heart are telling you to accept. I'd even have the understanding that you respect party discipline, but you respect multiparty discipline. You respect 18-party discipline, which isn't written anywhere like that...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16907	Mr. Nikolic, should I remind you of the amendment and Article 28?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16908	Remind me, I don't know what this is about.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16909	Do you want me to read it to you? "Protects of Civil Disabilities of War" - your parliamentary group has proposed that Article 28, paragraph 2 be deleted. Please return to the topic...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16910	Where did you find the basis, when I suggest you delete it, that I have no right to speak of anything that comes to mind...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16911	You're talking like there's a debate in principle.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16912	That's what I'm erasing, Madam President, the whole concept of law translated into this member of law. I'm erasing it now because it's all about erasing it. This law is not for adoption. Here I am ending, this law is not for adoption, this law is for erasure. I know the bill very well, but here you are doing something today and earning a salary.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16913	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Nobody. I put this amendment to the vote. For 42, against 83, with 19 abstentions, 25 of the 169 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 29. The amendment was submitted by MP Golub Rajic. Representative, Government and Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There's a word from the People's MP, Golub Rajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16914	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the Socialist Party of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to Article 29. Proposal for a law laying down certain competences of an autonomous province, where I suggested that it be deleted. I suggested that it be deleted because environmental protection jobs are governed by federal regulations, in accordance with Article 77 paragraph 1 point 4) of the SRJ Constitution. So, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, through its authorities, determines politics, adopts and enforces federal laws, other regulations and general acts and provides constitutional and judicial protection in areas, i.e. issues, besides others, the basis for environmental protection. This means that the Republic of Serbia and the Republic Assembly are not authorized to transfer the jurisdiction of the federal state to the province's authorities. Under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, issues of the jurisdiction of the autonomous province, particularly Vojvodina, cannot be specified in a single republic law for 24 areas, where environmental protection and improvement are. The Autonomous Region, through its authorities, brings a programme of environmental protection and development, regulates certain issues in this area, sets up a regional nature protection office, establishes a public enterprise for the management of the national park, provides monitoring of the situation, gives consent to the analysis of the impact of works and objects on the environment, then gives consent to the basics and programmes of the protection and promotion of flora and fauna, forests and water, educates the information subsystem and conducts administrative supervision in this area. The right to exercise administrative control over the enforcement of its laws can only be done by the Republic of Serbia. The Autonomous Province of Vojvodina cannot carry out other people's affairs and supervise a law that is not hers. Under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 109(3) of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina, through its bodies, makes decisions and general acts, in accordance with the Constitution and the law, which regulates individual issues of interest for citizens in the autonomous province in the area of protection and promotion of the environment. This possibility is valid in the Constitution, Article 113 of point 5 of the Generals, that through their bodies, in accordance with the law, they seek to meet certain needs of citizens in the field of protection and promotion of the environment. Therefore, it is obvious here that this law is the fruit of political trade between the Democratic Party and small autonomial separatist parties, which, in their programmes and in concrete political practice, have separatist definitions, and in the current schedule of forces in the Assembly, the government, as the prime minister said here, is making up the majority, but with the great help of New Serbia. That this is so, all these amendments also show, means 30 amendments submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, regardless of what was previously agreed on by certain commissions and working groups that handled the topic. I call on you to vote in favour of my amendment, to delete Article 29, and to allow autonomy, which it definitely belongs to, according to the current Constitution of 1990, through new legal projects, because this is still a counter-constitutional proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16915	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 38, against 84, abstentioned 15, the vote was not 29, of 166. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 29th amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Blazic. Representative, Government and Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. The word is made by the MP Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16916	Ladies and gentlemen, I have submitted an amendment to Article 29 of point (3) and (4) to delete, and points 6) and 7 of the word "consent" to replace the word "thinking". According to this Article 29, we share water, air, nature, birds. Those birds will be a little harder to share. You probably won't find a way to stop them from flying across the Danube, Sava, Tis, or you'll kill them all, and then you won't have anything to share, like it happened for 120,000 birds to go to Italy. So today, when the world’s environment is globally clouded and the boundaries of living space are not state limits, you are introducing some new regionalization and some new divisions. Point 2) states that the autonomous province regulates certain issues of protection, development and promotion of the environment of interest for the Autonomous province. Please, environmental protection is more in the interests of citizens than geographical space. Protecting the environment of a Panchev is in the interest of the citizens of Panchev before Belgrade, rather than Novi Sad, because of proximity. So, it's all a little absurd, that even here, as the world has a prominent interest in globalisation, it's trying to push some autonomous drive, without any logic. Point 3 provides for the establishment of a Regional Nature Protection Institute, entrusted for the territory of an autonomous province with public authority and business, etc. This certainly, gentlemen, is not an interest, nor is it a biologist, or an environmentalist, or anyone who deals with this business. This can only be the pursuit of desensitized politicians who even see nature from some of their own interests. Point 4 states that a public undertaking for the management of a national park in the territory of an autonomous province is to be established. Please, the Public Enterprise National Park Fruska Gora is already established and there is no need to establish it again. On the other hand, there is no single public company national park Serbia, but every public company is completely autonomous, thus being a completely autonomous and public-owned national park Fruska Gora. The very word "national" tied to the park, I guess it tells you enough that it is a Serbian-national park and that there are no national parks of autonomy. Today, when we became a member of Europanka, a national park of Europe, because it is a tendency for all national parks in Europe to be under one hat, today the National Park of Fruska Gora should be derived from the national parks of Serbia and Yugoslavia. I guess you can see for yourself how absurd it is and it doesn't make any sense, and especially what I'm saying is, this company is completely autonomous, just bringing its own agendas and development and improvements to that space. Furthermore, I said that consent to an analysis of the impact of works and objects on the environment is replaced by an opinion, so that the agreement on impact analysis is passed by the Ministry of Environmental Protection through its special service. It is very important that this consent under the law is paid 1% of the investment estimated in any space before obtaining a building permit and you are obliged to receive that consent. If the province will now have its own services that will do all this, essentially nothing is obtained, only the administration, the civil servant’s apparatus is multiplied and the whole process is accumulated. Based on everything, the Serbian Radical Party considers it not only logical, but absolutely reasonable to accept something like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16917	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? The word is by Aleksandar Vucic, an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16918	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, people and citizens of Serbia, we, as an SRS parliamentary group, have submitted this amendment, as well as most others, trying to point out to you the illogical nature of your solutions, the illogicalness of what you are trying to offer to the people of Serbia, without an alternative; to point out to the fact that you will not achieve anything good; that the only thing you can produce is bad coincidences; and we ask you to tell us what these solutions are. What it means to our people, what it means to our citizens. In Article 29, point 2), it is said that the autonomous province addresses certain issues of protection, development and promotion of the environment of interest for the autonomous province. What's the interest of the autonomous province? Are you going to re-introduce Leibnic's principles of enough or later a state reason to introduce you to an autonomous province? So both birds and water will be of interest to the autonomous province. I suppose these are the interests of the Serbian people and all other equal citizens in the Republic of Serbia, if you will, the SRJ. You talk about Europe all the time, you talk about European integration, about unification; for God's sake, we Serbian nationalists are guilty of everything, so now you're going to teach us in a different way to shape the country. Then the first thing you do is to divide the Danube in half; the part that flows through the Duke you will cut; for by that time there will be one rule for the protection of the Danube, and there somewhere from Smeder, until Cladd, there will be some other rules. It's something we can't accept and it's not normal. It's not normal because it's not getting anything, it's just getting lost. I don't see what anyone's getting through this whole legal project, these solutions, except, as someone said, the director of the National Park will be elected by someone in Novi Sad, not Belgrade. As far as I know, no one from Bosilegrad or Baja Basta has ever been elected to the director of the National Park of Fruska Mountain. I haven't heard yet. Have you heard of any of the directors who came from there and were the director of the national park? Maybe if some of the greatest experts were in protecting the environment, so to help in such a way, that would be good. I haven't heard yet. So it is certain that someone who is from Vojvodina, someone who is probably from the environment and who knows the matter best. This story, we ask for Nenad Canak, not to be set up by Zoran Djindjic, as we have had that story before, may later mean that we have fought for all of our autonomic rights much earlier, we are now looking for something more, we are looking for a state; and all this is happening, all of these powers and prerogatives of the authorities that are given to the autonomous province, be sure to represent the state in the country. We also heard a story about regions. There, as foreseen, the legislative, executive and judicial authority, is even more than the prerogatives of federal units, which they still have in our federal state today. Don't let us do this because it means breaking up our country. And she's much more valuable. There is no difference between us that some are born 10 or 100 kilometers north or south of each other. The same percentage, if not higher, if we talk about the specificities of the Serb population, in Vojvodina rather than Belgrade. There are over 80% of Serbs in Vojvodina, with 77% in Belgrade. Do you want to fence Belgrade too; say, birds in Belgrade have social protection, and if they go a little further, they cross the border of Lazaretsa to Lajkovec, then they will be protected by another province. I think those are solutions that cannot be accepted, they must not be accepted. I think those are solutions that are illogical. I don't know who needs them. I call on MPs, regardless of the party's discipline, which I assume they must respect, to vote for such amendments without voting for such a law, because such a law will bring great evil to Serbia, a great evil to the Serbian people. (President: Time. Time is nice, I hear it's very warm. As far as this law is concerned, it will only bring misfortune to the Serbian people. There won't be much laughter, there won't be much luck, unfortunately. I call upon you to accept the amendment of the MPs of the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16919	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 42, against 85, abstentioned 16, no vote was made by 20, a total of 163 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 29 of the amendment. The proposer's representative accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MP Milos Lukic submitted to the 30th amendment. Representative, Government and Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. The applicant of the amendment wants a word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16920	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, distinguished guests, the Soviet Union is of the opinion that an amendment to Article 30 should be adopted. With this amendment, we ask that this member of the law be deleted. Which is why we're asking to delete this article, I'll put it in a few sentences. Article 30 provides that an autonomous province, in accordance with the law, regulates spatial and urban planning, shall adopt a regional spatial plan, a spatial plan of specific purposes and a spatial plan of network infrastructure, etc. To remain in this first position; if we say that the Republic of Serbia has a spatial plan, I wonder if we have any objections to this spatial plan and whether the AP Vojvodina was in any way threatened by this spatial plan. It is known that the spatial plan is one act that is dynamic and changing from year to year, according to the requirements and needs in certain areas. However, we have to say, especially when it comes to infrastructure, that it is very unpopular to do this kind of simmering and now to bring it down to one regional level, or to the level of the province. We believe that the promise of this government, that quickly in Europe, we will rush with big steps, etc., will bear the need for our spatial plans, infrastructure plans, etc., to be coordinated with the European ones, so to speak with the world's plans. We're not going to let a single route happen, say, predict Serbia for a fast track or a highway, and when it gets to the Vojvodina border, it passes in a few miles or tens of kilometers. These are all some situations that look absurd. However, if it comes to being insolent, as we have the opportunity to see, if it comes to exorcising justice and counting on who's more, I think it's very easy to get into a situation like this. On the other hand, the issue of urban licenses, inspection controls, complaint resolution, also in the area of urbanism -- if we remind ourselves that it is now arranged; we have republican urban inspectors who are deployed in Serbia's territory, not everyone in Belgrade, are already deployed across Serbia -- so I think Vojvodina is represented in an appropriate manner. There is no reason for that inspector on the ground to now be called a province or something, but he can still be called republican and do his job as he has done so far. It's a question of urbanism, and at the next point we have a question of construction, which is also a matter of technique. We in the Soviet Union believe that there is no reason in this area to divide, in an area that is exact, where standards are global, European and already harmonised, that we are now inventing some of our standards regarding the province, about narrowing Serbia, southern, western, etc. I repeat once again, the SSJ believes that a member of the 30th law should be deleted. This also applies to Article 31, which follows this.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16921	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 40, against 91, with 19 abstention, 12 of the 162 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 30th Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Pavlovic. Representative, Government and Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Do you want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16922	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected escorts of today's balcony session, including the chairman of the District Committee for Vojvodina, I welcome you all. On behalf of the SPS and its parliamentary groups, I have submitted, as you have seen, an amendment to Article 30. The law laying down certain competences of the autonomous province, as it is officially called, refers to the area of urbanism. The amendment is otherwise submitted in line with the general policy of the SPS when it comes to decentralisation and autonomy. I can say that the amendment is related to Article 30, as well as to Article 31 of this Law, on which I also submitted the amendment, based on the line and in line with the view of the conclusion of our party which essentially says - the autonomy of Vojvodina in accordance with the constitution - yes, and the Republic of Vojvodina, in accordance with some new constitution of the Republic of Vojvodina - no. I would also like to say that the amendments to both Article 30 and Article 31 are motivated by the fact that the law is in general and by title, both by content and by individual solutions, essentially, as the promoters say, a transitional evil or necessarily evil, that it is above political trade and that it represents a legal precedent. This was discussed by prominent lawyers and professors, respected fellow MPs, and that such a law, both by name and by solutions, individually and in general, is not in line with the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. It introduces legal chaos, not only because we will have, on the one hand, an omnibus law, with 24 areas that determine jurisdiction, well, also 24 parent laws, but we have laws already in the process before this parliament. These are basic, secondary education laws, university and, I know, confidently, as a member of the Committee, announced the law on planning and building the Republic of Serbia, which will totally bring chaos, we will not know what it is and what we are going to implement. I suggested that Article 30(1) delete point 1) - "bringing a regional spatial plan, a spatial plan of specific purposes and a spatial plan of the network of infrastructure and network of areas or facilities with specific functions for areas in the territory of the autonomous province". I also suggested that point 3 be deleted in point 1 - "expected inspection in the area of urbanism"; I underline - especially "for objects for which the urban permit is issued by the competent authority of the Autonomous Province". I have proposed, in this context, that, if point (1) and point (3) are deleted, points (2) and (3) are deleted, (2) and (3) on who makes a decision on the accession and development of a spatial plan, which is notified by the ministry responsible for urban affairs and thirdly by the competent authority of the Ministry of Urban Affairs. Why did I suggest this? The amendment, which I am showing you, states that this solution in Article 30 is contrary to Articles 71 and 73. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, that it is contrary to the Law on the Spatial Plan of the Republic of Serbia and that it is contrary to the Law on Planning and Planning of Space and Villages. If that's the case, I'll read to you that it's in article 71. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has been defined that, within the framework of established rights and duties of the Republic of Serbia, other authorities and organisations in the Republic of Serbia can be entrusted with the enforcement of laws and regulations and general acts under the rights and duties of the Republic of Serbia, by being responsible for those enforcements. In Article 10. The law, and these are all laws in the field of spatial planning, urbanism, residential-communal areas, is defined what are spatial plans? So the spatial plans are in accordance with the Constitution and the Law on Spatial Planning...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16923	Mr. Pavlovic, you've exceeded your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16924	Excuse me, well, spatial plan, just 15 seconds please, therefore, regional spatial plan, spatial plan of the area of special purpose and spatial plan of the network infrastructure. Article 35 says "The spatial plans are carried out by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia". The explanation, provided by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, says it is opt-out, in accordance with Article 109. The Constitution, like confidential business. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think we should comment. Bringing in spatial plans...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16925	Mr. Pavlovic, for the last time, I'm warning you that you've exceeded your time, it's seven minutes, and it's in Article 138. The Rules of Procedure say you can talk about the amendment for a maximum of five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16926	I thank you for your patience, for your patience, and I am finishing up and I am asking the MPs to accept my amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16927	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 38, against 76, abstentioned 13, 30 of the 157 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 30th Amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Representative, Government and Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There's a word from MP Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16928	When it comes to spatial planning, it is of strategic interest to every country and thus also to Serbia. There is no improvisation in spatial planning, especially no such kind of political trade. The country's spatial plan brings and adopts the highest legislative body. In this case, it is the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The spacious plan of Serbia is what we have brought, and it is true. All other plans, such as regional plans, such as detailed urban plans, drawn up by local self-government, general urban and regulatory plans, must be in line with the Space Plan of Serbia. And what we're doing now -- in the name of some rationality, in the name of the story that the future is in regionalism, we're causing ourselves problems. Here's what these problems are -- basically each of us knows that the spatial plan of a region should be consistent with the spatial plan of the Republic. You should, but you don't have to. This means, if we adopt this member, as it is, without amendments to the SRS, then tomorrow, the Vojvodina Assembly will establish an office for urbanism and planning, because it is an authority that, in the name of the founders, in this case, will continue to do these jobs. The office will draw up spatial plans, as they say, with the specificities of Vojvodina space. Where can problems arise? This is the next -- now start the highway, building the second lane of Novi Sad - Belgrade, can be suspended. This is why -- because this institution, in this case the institution, through its founder, can make a decision, or an assessment, better said, not to make it worth it. Secondly, they can, since they are automatically authorized by this law, also bring plans into the area of infrastructure. So here's why I'm saying this, although it's unlikely that we'd get into that kind of risk; right for the Novi Sad -- Belgrade highway, when it was made, it was credited to make four tapes. At that time, there were famous autonomists in Vojvodina, who had four years of school in the congregation. Žika Berisavljevic swears today in all eight classes of elementary school. And look what they did -- first, they estimated together with Azem Vlassi at the time, that it wasn't strategic that Vojvodina's infrastructure was developing (in this case the traffic) towards Belgrade, but according to Osijek, and they made one tape. Here's proof - all the overpasses were pre-made. They were then made for two strips, or four strips, in two directions. They drank the rest, made the cottages. Their weekends are all over FruscaGora, of which the material was intended for the traffic and the surrounding monuments. You'd better not throw it away, you little learn something. [[jamour.]] You weren't in that skin, and you don't know what's coming here. Secondly, it is claimed that this has nothing to do with separatism - it will not separate Vojvodina. Gentlemen, does anyone here have the courage and courage to come out for this pay phone, from other political parties, to bring it out and to stand behind it, to say, it will not separate. Then why do you need a partial balance on who you're sharing it with? Debt balance means you're sharing some property with someone. Who are you sharing this with? Here is a fundamental problem that regional localist parties are afraid of a single Serbia, and then by replacing the thesis, we are forced to fear the regionalisation of Serbia. Why are they afraid of the unique Serbia -- because they are small as parties, as parties are minor. They only have a chance in certain regions to pass, to play a significant role.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16929	Please return to the topic, Mr. Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16930	This is all about the subject. Regionalisation is a topic. Regionalisation and such legislation are the fruit and product of the political will of a political group, which is not, conditionally speaking, regional and local character. Everyone else is local. This is their result, and here is the key question, gentlemen -- yesterday Predrag Filipov, on behalf of the promoter, accepted all the amendments -- where is the written confirmation that he is authorized and that this is with the consent of the Vojvodina Assembly? We had it in writing, signed by the President of the Vojvodina Assembly, Nenada Chanka, that he accepted certain amendments. Why is Predrag Filipov today, before the meeting of the congregation; in the end, it is not too late to deliver the document to us, where he is signed and confirms that he accepts it? Gentlemen, you are making deliberate problems, deliberately dragging both Serbia and Vojvodina into a crisis.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16931	Mr. Mircic, you're causing deliberate problems, too. I give you a warning based on Articles 102 and 103. I warned you three times to stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16932	As I recall, Madam Chairman, I have Alexandra, I have Maria, I didn't have Natasha, so you would be the problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16933	Mr. Mircic, if you continue, I'll give you another warning. The word is given by MP Aleksandar Vucic, an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group, for the ovary agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16934	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Will you calm this monster down? [[jamour in the O.R.]] Here you are the biggest problem, Mrs. Micic, do not tell anyone that the problem is. But there's one even bigger than you, and I was wrong when I said you were the biggest, and the biggest problem is the one who thought to put you there. As far as this amendment is concerned, there's someone else up there who wants to say something, so come out for this pay phone, don't be too smart to pretend from the scene, and since you only know how to read the paper and eat seeds in your spare time...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16935	Mr. Wolf, I warn you that you have been given the word to discuss the amendment to Article 30. This is the last warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16936	Mrs. Micic, don't give me one or the last, because you had to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure. You hear how many MPs have thrown away, I'm not going to say they're stupid and primitive, it would be rude, but that's their claims and their insights. Anyway, if they want to say anything, let them come out for this pay phone, and let them read the paper in the morning, get up a little early. As regards Article 31,
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16937	Article 30, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16938	As for Article 31, which I submitted the amendment to, and Mrs Micic, it would be good for you to listen, he was in close coordination with Article 30, to which MP Milorad Mircic submitted the amendment. I would ask you to keep your primitive smile and laugh for another time and another place, not to show the MPs behind your back, so I can't have mirrors on my left and right, so I can see how primitive you are.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16939	Mr. Wolfie, I give you a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16940	Why are you telling me this?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16941	Because you're insulting me.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16942	Give me a warning because you're primitive, brazen and rude.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16943	I give you a second warning on the basis of Articles 102 and 103. Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16944	You give me a warning because you are arrogant and rude, so you give me a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16945	Yeah.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16946	Well, let's know that's why you gave the warning. I'm telling you, Mrs. Micic, your insolence, your behavior...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16947	Mr. Wolfie, I'm taking your word and asking you to step away from the pay phone. Also, I'm setting a break by 15.00 hours. [[After break -16,10.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please insert the identification cards into the MPs to determine the quorum. I figure we've got a quorum and we can keep working. The debate is in particular on the draft law laying down certain competences of the Autonomous Province. On Article 30, he submitted and discussed the amendment, MP Milorad Mircic. The right to discussion was also used by MP Aleksandar Vukic, as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 19, against 102 abstentions 16, it did not vote 8 out of 145 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Milos Lukic. Representative, Government and Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16949	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the Members of Parliament, Article 31 of this Law provides that the autonomous province is to be handed over to the jurisdiction of certain powers in the area of construction: to issue a building permit whose issue has so far been in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Urban Affairs and Construction for buildings built on the territory of the Autonomous Region; to carry out inspection in the area of building facilities, especially for those buildings that are built on the territory of the Autonomous Province; to settle complaints against the first-degree settlement of the municipal administration in the territory of the Autonomous Province. When all this is seen, we are in the Serbian Unity's party asking a fundamental question: what remains of the Serbian Building Ministry. It is precisely, by transferring these responsibilities from point 1) to the province authorities that we are practically losing touch with this part of Serbia's territory. I think this is a very serious question and it shouldn't be that easy to get over it. I was at the building ministry today, and people are wondering what they're gonna do. It is a number of workers who have served this territory so far, given that Vojvodina is certainly represented with a certain percentage and in the people now working in Belgrade for this job, as well as control over the implementation of these facilities in the province also performs a number of ministry officials. Under point 2) we have that the exercise of inspection supervision in the areas of construction is also transferred to the jurisdiction of the province's authorities. So we already have licenses and inspection orders. Under tax 3 we have a resolution by appeal. So, everything that has been done so far at the Ministry of Building of the Republic of Serbia has been circled, and everything has been passed on to the province's authorities. It will appear in practice a series of problems and a series of questions when this law comes into effect. One question is whether the licences issued by the Ministry of Construction to companies and individuals in the Republic will also apply to the territory of the APV or whether new conditions and new criteria for obtaining these licences will be laid down there? Whether performers of works, well-known Montenegrins, who perform works around the world and Europe, will be able to carry out their work uninterrupted in Vojvodina, or will be difficult, as Marijan Risticevic said, as they will take everything into their own hands. Due to everything that has been put forward in the Serbian Unity, we believe that the adoption of this law is premature and that, especially in this area of construction, all these powers are irrevocably transferred to the province's authorities. That's why we suggest that article 31 be deleted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16950	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 46, against 101, with 27 abstentions, 15 of the 198 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Pavlovic. Representative, Government and Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16951	Since my colleagues warn me that in the light of the amendments to Article 30, I have exceeded the time, that they have tolerated it, I publicly promise both to you, and to all Serbian MPs and citizens that I will not abuse the speaker; I will fill a total of 10 minutes and thus honor both the MPs and the public and the Rules of Procedure on the work of our assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16952	Mr. Pavlovic, this is an amendment to Article 31, and your time for discussion is five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16953	I said I spent more time discussing the amendment to article 30 and I'm talking about it. You didn't follow me. So, I'm going to use the total time, which won't take 10 minutes, so I'm going to talk about Article 30 and Article 31. On behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 30. The law establishing certain competences of an autonomous province, relating to the area of construction. All that I said about the general resolution of this law in the amendment to Article 30, and now I could repeat it, but it would be unnecessary. I mean, obviously, the proposer doesn't want to accept any amendments to the members of the law except those submitted by the government. My amendment is in that group. Also, the government of the Republic of Serbia did not support this amendment, and the Legislative Committee had no position on this. It is obvious, if I may say in general, that the promoter wants the law to be adopted in the text proposed, with the amendments of the Government. If nothing else, I fully understand the matter so that in this law it is adopted in a text that will represent a acquired commitment to all future constitutional solutions, because it will be difficult to take away. In Article 31, I suggested that point 1) be deleted, which reads: "is issued by a building permit whose issue is in the power of the ministry responsible for urban affairs and buildings for buildings built on the territory of an autonomous province". Secondly, I suggested that point 2) be amended and read as follows: "He is inspecting the facilities for which the building permit is issued by the competent authority of the Autonomous Province". In my explanation, I explained that this is contrary to Article 24. The law on the construction of the buildings of the Republic of Serbia and that it is contrary to Article 49 of the same law. Let me remind you that Article 24(2) states that a building permit for the construction of buildings is issued by the competent ministry, if this law is not otherwise defined. It is further said that the competent ministry is issuing a building permit to build buildings at 23 points, so from high dams, nuclear facilities, oil production and processing facilities, basic and processing chemical industries, hydropower plants, interregional and regional facilities, water supply facilities, waste water treatment plants, airports and subways. In the last position, the ministry responsible for construction works is said to issue all construction permits from point 1 to point 18, and from point 18, where regional works on roads, waterways, buildings, etc. issues the Ministry responsible for traffic and communications affairs. It should not be explained that there is no autonomous province here, no place to transfer such responsibilities. In Article 49. The Law on the Construction of Objects states: "The supervision of the enforcement of the provisions of this law is carried out by the competent ministry". (President: Time, Mr. Pavlovic, you have exceeded time. I'm done, ma'am. Based on this, it is obvious that these jobs, unfortunately, cannot be transferred to an autonomous province, so I call on all MPs to accept this amendment and to preserve the unity of the Republic in the work relating to spatial planning, urban planning and construction. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16954	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? The word comes from MP Branislav Ivkovic, president of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16955	Ladies and gentlemen, by 1995, the situation in the area of issuing building permits for the construction of special capital facilities and for the exercise of inspection was not good. We were in a catastrophic situation because the building permit for the construction of a 60 square meters house, thermal power plants, airports, railways, roads, issued a municipality on the part of whose territory the building was built or on whose territory was built part of the building. It was a disastrous solution, both in technical and economic terms. It was the Law on the Construction of Objects, adopted in 1995, that was corrected in 1996, that situation was overcome. It was overcome, with great support from the profession, which said objects of municipal, urban and republican importance should be observed. That is why there is a difference in the issue of construction permits and the difference in the exercise of inspection controls. At the level of the Republic, those facilities that are capital capital capital from the point of view of usefulness for the state and from the point of view of danger resulting from the haemorrhaging that can occur unless the facility is technically properly executed. There are bridges of large ranges, roads, railways, thermal power plants, large river regulation, there are capital pipelines that pass through several municipalities. The waist was too satisfied. It was formed by a republican audit authority, which audits the complete documentation, from an idea project, through the general to the project. So it's all arranged properly and how the waist wanted it. What's going on now? Now, with this amendment, my fellow Socialists, Pavlovic wants to prevent it, but what is proposed now is that suddenly one part of the capital facilities fall to the level of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina. I would just ask - who will say what belongs to the Vojvodina of the Belgrade-Novi Sad railway; who will say which part belongs to the Vojvodina of the Belgrade-Novi Sad highway; who will say - the regulation of the Danube, the left and the right coast, whether we want to do a project for the left and the project for the right bank. What's going on now, people? Why do you do that? Is that an answer to Chanka's question, which 117 pronounces us fascists here. "Di is our money" - what does it matter? You now have a republican audit committee that includes experts from Novi Sad, Sutotica, Zrenjanin, but also from Nis, Kragujevac and Belgrade. The Republic Revised Commission is observing capital investment projects from the point of view of innovation-studys and Cosbenefit analysis, but also the technical point of view - seismics, all the way to the most trivial categories of supply of the facility with surrounding infrastructure. And here you have one complete order. Now someone's thinking -- for what reason now they're pulling off certain capital facilities that are unique to Serbia. What's this about? What's the use of that? Inspection? Why is inspection of the construction of capital facilities not to be unique? Will there be one inspection to the Belgrade-Novi Sad bridge, and the other one will be from the bridge to Novi Sad. Where are we going? Guys, check what you're doing. People take good care of what happens.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16956	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word on this amendment? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 54, against 92, 30 abstentions, 20 of 196 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 31. The amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Vukic. Representative, Government and Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Please, there is a word from MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16957	Unfortunately, Mrs. Micic, by usurping the right of the president of the National Assembly, you gave notices to Alexander Vukic, who was irritated by your behaviour, by gestures behind his back that you were doing and who even saw themselves in television, I saw them at the Parliament Club, so that Aleksandar Vukic cannot explain this amendment. But that's how you do your part of the job. One radical is punished, one word at a time you take away, one by one you throw out, and it would be good if you cooperated with us, so you wouldn't have to wait for a quorum of stolen DOS cards that don't even know where they are anymore. This amendment is, like everyone else, very important. It reflects the full intention of the legislator and reflects the full impotence of the government of the Republic of Serbia, which is in agreement with the fact that you no longer exist. How else to interpret Article 31. The bill, which requires the government of the Republic of Serbia to issue an autonomous province with a building permit, which has so far been in charge of the ministry responsible for urban and building affairs, for buildings built on the territory of the autonomous province. How to interpret differently that the government accepts that for all facilities built on the territory of an autonomous province, and for those in the jurisdiction of the Serbian government and for those in the jurisdiction of local self-government, the province conducts inspection controls, as well as that the province settles by appeal of first-degree solutions to the municipal administration. Then why do we need the Ministry of Defence and Building? Who is now to see the unity of the Republic of Serbia in the area of construction? Will Vojvodina now decide to build a nuclear power plant? The issue of a permit, and I see some pretty ladies laughing here, and that's not bad, for a change, in this assembly, but I'd like to ask the guests who attend this session not to respond to what we're talking about, which is why we're authorized. For someone to appreciate a guest, the guest has to act like someone else's house. So, are you sure which factories of the basic chemical industry will be built in Vojvodina? Are you sure it's going to be a nuke in Vojvodina or not? Are you sure there will be a duplication of capacities in the territory of the Republic of Serbia by building facilities in Vojvodina? So, is there anyone in Serbia, according to you, who is meant to see Serbia as a whole. Why do you mind if there is an organ in which Vojvodina will be represented, which will treat Serbia as a unique, unique building block. Why is it that you who are in power in Serbia throw out what every country must have. The area of construction, as of today when you do not adopt this amendment, and the Serbian government has had no objection to this member, has completely crossed the territory of Vojvodina into the hands of Vojvodina. Was that the wish of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia? Is that the desire for legislation in the Republic of Serbia? It's not. Nothing in Serbia can completely move into the jurisdiction of local self-government, autonomous province, any part of the territory. At the top must remain the Republic Government, at the top as the last instance. You all, nice and nice. Will we soon have in the municipalities which are the Bani spas, which have natural resources, whether we will have some ex-terrestrials, some Monaco, some Liechtenstein, some different arrangement than the Republic of Serbia. Why shouldn't we? Which is the difference between a territory now called Vojvodina and one called Vranjska Banja. Why don't we just let the citizens of Vranjska Banje say stop, so this can go any way you want in this country. We have this water, we can all live as Earls, which we don't care who's developed in Serbia and who's not. We're gonna take out this water that's coming out to the surface, and we're gonna live on it. We'll have our customs, we'll pay the Republic of Serbia something, so much so we won't be completely separated. Where does that lead us to the end? (President: Time. Where does that lead us in the end? I know Vrnjak Banja municipality president agrees, he was making statements and these Vrnjak Banja buddies of his, they were already making a statement in the paper that they wanted that status within Serbia. His buddies, I said all the variations. And after all, I'm done, give up this law. This can't be done. The first elected judge of the Constitutional Court of Serbia will say your law is completely unconstitutional. The first elected, even if he chooses one of the lawyers from this assembly who is now voting for the law, when you declare him a Constitutional Court judge, he will have to think for himself. He won't be able to push the button.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16958	Mr. Nikolic, it's the seventh minute, why you abuse other people's time every time you talk.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16959	I didn't hear you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16960	I'm saying time's up. It's seven minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16961	I'm sorry, I got carried away.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16962	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I'm putting him to the vote. For 53, against 87, with 28 abstentions, 29 of the 196 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Miroljub Veljkovic submitted to the 32nd amendment. Representative, Legislative Committee and Government have not adopted this amendment. The amendmentr wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16963	You haven't boasted to us that the government has received a large staff reinforcement. It's a big breakthrough. Item 2 in Article 32 of the proposed law is absolutely unacceptable for the SRS. By trusting these businesses with an autonomous province, we would practically begin breaking state unity in Serbia. The SRS has submitted a lot of amendments to this so-called. We have submitted the omnibus law and these amendments in order to possibly correct this bill. No, we are a priority against every autonomy in Serbia and the priorities are normal and against this paper. I can't call him the law, the one you brought to the National Assembly. We have practically submitted this large number of amendments to show you, as well as to the public in Serbia, all the absurdity of passing such a law. We put up with them to try again to explain our amendments to convince you to reject the whole law and prevent further separation of the common land. With great care and interest in the previous days, I have listened to MPs who support this law. With astonishment, I listened to the MPs of Srema, Banat and Backa, Serbs, who support this law. I figured a few things out from their exposure. First, to use absolutely the same rhetoric, the same arguments when defending this law used by Serbian communists when defending constitutional amendments and then the 1974 Constitution. I would remind you all that the loudest at the time were just Serbian communists. Even then, the national minorities did not have anything special to support the autonomy of the Vojvodina. Simply, people were aware that the level of national rights by such a solution would neither be reduced...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16964	Mr Veljkovic, your amendment does not apply to national minorities, but to the residential area, it is Article 32. Please focus on the agenda theme.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16965	I like your efforts to keep you in that position by working and pawning Mr. Djindjic. But you must know, when Kostunica and Djindjic agree, that you will leave that place.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16966	Mr. Veljkovic, I don't want to make a mistake with you. You've been given a word on your amendment and please return to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16967	I'm considering my amendment, which is just heading that way, in Article 32(2), should be rejected. That changes the essence of this whole law. Let me explain my amendment, please, and don't count this time.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16968	You can't talk past the agenda theme.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16969	So with this autonomy, the rights of national minorities will neither be increased nor reduced. In the end, we have heard this from representatives of the national minorities these days. The second conclusion I made was that MPs who support this law from Srema, Banat and Backa, when they defend this law, don't believe in the arguments they're making here. You're insecure, brother, thin, as the people would say. I understand what you're saying, because it's very difficult to defend something that can't be defended. Still, you should come home tomorrow, look at your relatives and friends, acquaintances...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16970	Mr. Veljkovic, I warn you again to return to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16971	For some of you, I hear their fathers are Orthodox priests. The third thing, which I concluded while I was listening to you, is that you are terribly ashamed, regardless of the high-priced dictionary, of calling on democratic principles, European principles...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16972	Mr Veljkovic, based on Articles 102 and 103. I'm giving you my first warning because, despite my three warnings, you didn't stick to the subject of the agenda. You've been given your word to discuss your amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16973	I'm still going to explain my amendment that I think I should explain it. I think I'm talking about the amendment, I think I'm talking about the law...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16974	There's a special debate in principle, Mr. Veljkovic, to remind you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16975	So I also noticed that, gentlemen, you're ashamed and I ask you, what are you ashamed of? Are you ashamed of the famous ancestors from Srem, Banat and Backa, are you ashamed of Yash Tomic, Svetozar Miletic, Djura Jaksic, Branko Radčević, are you ashamed of Jova... (President: Mr Veljkovic, for the last time I warn you to stick to the topic of the agenda. )......................................................................................................... and so on; and perhaps you are ashamed of those 757 MPs of the Great National Assembly of Serbs, Bunjevac and others... (President: Mr Veljkovic, you have exceeded your time and do not stick to the agenda theme. I give you a second warning. ) In this sense, honourable Members of the people (this guardian of the beach in the winter period... I urge you to think again, especially you who have supported this law, to think carefully, when it comes to the law in general, whether we have the right to do this to our nation and to our people.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16976	Is any of the other authorised participants in the debate registered for a word on this amendment? Yeah. ) National MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16977	Mrs. Micic, you severely injured the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, giving notice to a MP who explained his amendment and related to the rules concerning the debate in principle. Indeed, in the matter of principle, the Rules of Procedure, and that is a meaningless provision, the speaker should stick to what is on the agenda. How will you, Mrs. Micic, find a foothold in the amendment debate? The law laying down certain competences of the Autonomous Province is on the agenda. The MP submitted his amendment, and this law touches countless laws, touching relations in the Republic of Serbia. He's been warning you all this, all of this explains to you, he filed the amendment because he had the right to do it. Where do you get the right to interpret and how will he explain his amendment? He can explain it the way he's capable of explaining it. These reminders you make, which you slap on the MPs, reflect only your weaknesses, show how unable you are to accept the fact that there are in the congregation...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16978	Is this your debate on amendments, as deputy president of the parliamentary group?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16979	It's my amendment debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16980	About the amendment to Article 32?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16981	Do you think someone has the right to take the MP to protection, and who will if they do not have a representative of the parliamentary group? You don't think you're harassing us here...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16982	You could have called the Rules of Procedure, but you got word to talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16983	This is how I explain the amendment, Mrs. Micic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16984	Well, that's not the way it is, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16985	What you think he can't...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16986	Mr. Nikolich...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16987	I'm sorry, please, what you don't think can...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16988	I ask you best to return to the agenda theme, which is the amendment to Article 32, which was submitted by the MP of your parliamentary group, MP Miroljub Veljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16989	Tell me, what member of the Rules of Procedure can't explain the amendment like this? Which member of the Rules of Procedure have I now hurt?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16990	Article 138. Rules of Procedure - discussion of amendments in order; and you need to stick to the topic of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16991	What difference does it make, the order is respected...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16992	Then he could say anything but the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16993	It is, but only five minutes, and during that time, I can't make grades out of private life, I can't use offensive expressions, I can't curse you; I accept that, but I can explain the amendment. Now, that's where you and I are different, Mrs. Micic, which you would like to push out the opposition from the Assembly, and if I were to run the Assembly by chance, I would look forward to representatives of the opposition in the Assembly having freedom of speech and thus prove to the people that there is a democracy in the Parliament, that there is no corporal of a small political party. These, which monitor the work of the National Assembly, call Serbian Radicals a minor political party. We'll see after the next election. National MP Veljkovic has made an extraordinary explanation for the amendment and I have nothing more to add than to invite you to vote for the SRS amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16994	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 40, against 75, with 14 abstention, 62 of the 191 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Petar Petrovic submitted to the amendment of the 33rd. Representative, Government and Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Do you want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16995	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as well as for a number of members of this law, and for Article 33, it has proposed that it be deleted; and for those who have not even read this law, to remind them and to show them that it refers to employment. This Article 33 discusses the establishment of a rural fund, i.e. a labour market office, as an organisational unit, and lists only three basic jobs to be dealt with by the rural labour market office. However, what is symptomatic of this article is that by proposing, i.e. the establishment of a rural labour market office, it is not said in transitional and final provisions to delete certain provisions of the members that regulate this area in the Employment Act, as well as certain provisions in other laws relating to this area. Namely, if the Regional Labour Market Office takes over certain rights and obligations that have so far been in the branches of the Republic Fund, or the Labour Market Office, which are located in all major places of Vojvodina, and not only the Vojvodina, but also the rest of Serbia, what will this fund, or the Province Labour Market Office in Vojvodina, do? Among other things, it is given the right to self-programme employment and prepare for employment and professional orientation. So far, the work has been done by institutions in Serbia, including Vojvodina, and this has all been brought into the Republic Labour Market Office, where a joint programme for employment and a joint programme for professional orientation has been established. Those who were a little more concerned with this problem must know that. This is, as I said in the afternoon debate on the amendments, when there were words about disability and pension protection, I was saying, it seems to me, and that is what the Soviet Union is saying, just one of the first steps towards taking over the jurisdiction of the Republic and crossing those responsibilities in the jurisdiction of the Autonomous District Authority. And what it is, rather than the first step towards secession and the secession of the province of Vojvodina from its queen, the Republic of Serbia. I repeat again, more because of Serbian citizens, that Serbian citizens living in the territory of the AP Vojvodina are certain of one thing, that members of the Soviet Union will stand firm in defending the unity of the Republic of Serbia and that they will not allow the AP Vojvodina to secede from its queen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16996	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 51, against 89, abstention 21, did not vote 25 out of 186 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. This discussion was also an example of respect for the Rules of Procedure and Article 138, which says that the debate is being held in particular by the members to whom the amendments have been submitted; therefore, as regards keeping the subject of the agenda and respect for the time to be presented. The 33rd Amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Ratimir Svirčević, Zivica Predojev, Teodora Vlahovic and Kermeci Karolj. The proposing representative and the government have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant's representative want a word? He doesn't want to. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 14, v102, abstention 23, was not voted 47, a total of 186 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 33 of the amendment. The proposer's representative accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 33rd Amendment was submitted by MP Lazar Marjanski. Representative, Government and Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. The applicant for the amendment is not present. National MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group, spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16997	Ladies and gentlemen, when you read the proposal of Article 33 relating to employment, which defines in three points what will become the original jurisdiction, therefore, not the entrusted work, but the competence of the autonomous province in the field of employment, you can see that this is an agreement to the general acts of the undertaking for the training and employment of persons with disabilities, the programming of employment, the preparation for the employment and education of the Information Subsystem, as part of a single information system of the Republic. Now I'm interested in where employment is, what kind of a country labour market office is that, when you say in no word that he should hire people, what do we need with these directors, and boards, statutes? Just to build up functions in an autonomous province. It does not say in any word that this was founded to employ people, but to create information systems and subsystems, to have a director of the provincial office and to have that director appoints all directors in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. There's no "Z" since employment. There's a "z," but not for the word "employment," but for another word, which I don't, of course, I'm well-mannered. And the question is, which I'm asking for all the newly formed funds or seductions -- what are the sources of income, and I'm asking you again, you who are going to vote without thinking, and this is the only law that regulates this matter -- what are the sources of income for what is not a trusted job? So it's not a confidential business, it's not a transfer from the Republic's account, it's the jurisdiction of an autonomous province. Now, when you determine the law of jurisdiction, and you have no right to do so, that's what the Constitution and the statutes of the Vojvodina do, then I ask you, what are the sources of income? When we propose one law, we who are not in the ruling coalition, because that's why you reject these proposals, we have to state whether the law requires funds and how the funds will be provided. You are now forming one employment office, and you are not saying -- where will the funds for the work of that institution, which will burden the budget, which the economic entities, do those on the territory of Vojvodina, and why on the territory of Vojvodina, for one head of the circuitry and five-six lower ones, or 10-15 lower ones? You don't even think about it, you don't care at all. I hear, Mrs. Micic, they're telling me that you've been commenting on my coming down from the pay phone and that you've said that it takes us radicals a little bit to be happy. Is that right, Mrs. Micic? Why don't you hold on, what's the matter with you? What's itchy about you?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16998	Mr. Nikolic, we can't lead the controversy. You can check in with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u16999	And how long does it take you, Mrs. Micic, to be happy?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u17000	I wasn't talking about a certain parliamentary group. I was talking about joy. Is anyone else answering for this agenda point? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 54, v.89, abstentions20, no vote was cast 26, a total of 189 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 33rd amendment was submitted by MP Nebojsa Jovic. Representative, Government and Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Does the Legislative Committee consider the amendment legally possible? The word has been issued by MP Nebojsa Jovic, who submits the amendment to Article 33, which refers to employment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u17001	On behalf of the SPS Embassy Group, I have submitted an amendment to delete Article 33's final position. The proposal for a law laying down certain competences of the Autonomous Province, which speaks of the Director of the Regional Office appointed directors of the Organisational Units of the Republic Institute, which are educated in the territory of the Autonomous Province. If the provincial office is an organisational unit of the Republic Institute, it shall not be authorised to grant powers to the Director of the Regional Office, the Director of the Republic Office. Because, according to the provisions of Article 47, point 1 of point 12. The Statute of the Republic Labour Market Office, published in Official Messenger No 28/97, shall be decided by the Director of the Institute on the admission to employment in the Office, the deployment of staff, and other rights, obligations and responsibilities of staff in the Office, in accordance with the law and this Statute. Therefore, the Director of the Regional Labour Market Office, as the Director of the Organizational Unit of the Institute, has no authority in the statutes and other general acts of the Institute, to decide on the admission to the employment relationship of employees in the circuitry, as well as other organisational units in the province, and thus to appoint managers of those organisational units. I would like to draw attention once again to the fact that this article is in Article 33. The bill incorrectly states that the Director of the Regional Institute appoints directors of organisational units of institutions educated in the territory of an autonomous province. Directors of organisational units in general, and therefore directors of organisational units in the territory of the autonomous province, are not named. These are not public functions, but are deployed to these jobs and are appointed to the Director of the Organizational Unit of the Office of the Republic Institute of Labour. From all ahead, I suggest that the proposed amendment be accepted on behalf of the SPS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u17002	I thank the People's MP. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 52, against 86, with 16 abstentions, he did not vote 31, a total of 185 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 34th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Jovan Todorovic and joint MPs Jovan Deretic and Zoran Novakovic. Representative, Government and Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. The word is made by MP Jovan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u17003	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 34 with a proposal to delete it from this law, for the following several reasons: firstly, because the text of the proposed member by me is unclear and difficult to apply; secondly, because the proposer himself did not find it appropriate to mention this article in the context of the proposal for this law, in the section relating to the economy, this Article 34. True, Article 34 is mentioned, but in a completely different context, when citing the provision of Article 35 of this Law, which refers to commissions for the implementation of tender sales of enterprises and auction privatisation. Otherwise, the proposed member foresees that, in accordance with the law, private entrepreneurs in the second-degree procedure can address complaints to the competent authorities of the Autonomous Province and thereby transfer to the Autonomous Region the competences of the state administration, which in my opinion is not in accordance with the Constitution or with the laws governing a particular area for which the private entrepreneur, who would have expressed his appeal to the municipal administration's solutions, was actually interested. The attempt of the promoter, as well as those who defend the proposed text of the law, to say that justice will be closer or more accessible to private entrepreneurs, does not stand for me, because the tasks of the state administration are done by the competent ministries, and, as far as I know, the autonomous province has no ministry, I hope they will not have them. The government, to my surprise, has rejected this amendment, and it seems to me that it acted on principle -- it is my concern that you move on to another. Some organautonomous provinces settle for complaints from private entrepreneurs about solutions to the municipal administration, that's not our problem. But, on the other hand, the one applying for a certain solution to the municipal administration is, in my understanding of matters and legal protection, damaged because it has been brought into an unequal position with all other entrepreneurs in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, who have the full right to make public administration solutions, if they do not respond or if they are unhappy with them, appeal to the competent ministry. True, the government, in its justification for rejecting this amendment, says that these transactions are being transferred as trusted, but from the core point of view of a private entrepreneur, it is entirely irrelevant to him whether someone is dealing with him on a confidential basis or on the basis of the original jurisdiction of the autonomous province. It is only important that in such a situation it can be found to a large extent a damaged and disabled comparison with other private entrepreneurs. A particular problem for me is that it's not defined what a private entrepreneur is. Are these people who have opened independent crafts, independent trade or other activities, or are private entrepreneurs in the broadest sense of that word, those who do business in enterprises, and as we know, businesses operate under the Company Act. Are they private entrepreneurs who will reach their businesses through privatisation, which is again regulated by the Law of Privatisation, and all other appeal procedures are regulated in these laws in a special way. I'm surprised the government rejected all of this. It would be logical to expect that just now the Government opposes such a proposal for a legal solution, which simply cannot be neither original nor transferred jurisdiction of the autonomous province, but rather the affairs of the state administration, which undoubtedly and without any doubt belong to the Republic, or to the competent ministry.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u17004	The word has been given by MP Jovan Deretic, as an applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u17005	The Honorable Presidency, dear colleagues, my predecessor very well presented the problem of the proposed member of the law and the reason for the amendment, why we suggested that this position be deleted. There is, in the government's explanation, a gap, as the government says it is a matter of trust, and the bill says it is a solution to complaints. Solving is one thing, and surveillance and control are another thing. This is about the original action that means, since the state administration is implementing the ministry, that the future Vojvodina, which will by its chance be called the Republic of Vojvodina, will have ministries. That is why we have proposed that this article be deleted because it does not fit our current legislation, nor what is allegedly required by this draft law. It is again a typical hoax of the draft law, where autonomy is sought; I started calling the war "where our money is", and it is about preparing the basis for the creation of an independent state of Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u17006	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 52, against 81, abstentioned 15, 34 of the 182 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Zlatan Jovanovic submitted to the 34th amendment. Representative, Government and Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. The word is Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u17007	Ladies and gentlemen, for five days now, we have been discussing this radical bill and I think it is clear to everyone in this room, the promoter, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the citizens of Serbia, that this law does not lead to Serbia's decentralisation and even less democratisation. The law is cataract, anti-constitutional and irrational. It would be wiser if the motionor would withdraw this law and we would give up the further debate. As for the very amendment that I filed before the Serbian Radical Party on Article 34, firstly, because of our viewers, Serbian citizens, I will read Article 34. "Autonomic province, through its authorities, in accordance with the law governing the area of private enterprise, resolves by appeal against first-degree solutions of the municipal administration from the territory of the autonomous province." Item 2: "The job of this member's 1st position is carried out as a trustee." What's the basic problem here, that's the problem with the name of the law itself. The Serbian Radical Party has submitted an amendment; it was the first amendment in this debate where it says the title of the law should be changed. This law bears the title - the law establishing certain competences of an autonomous province. In the second position, as in most other members of this law, instead of the bill, it is said that the job of the first position is entrusted. We have suggested that the title of this law be changed, if you already adopt it, that it at least formally resembles something and that it is called - a law of trust in business. In fact, there is no law to establish jurisdiction and to entrust a certain business to an autonomous province. It means that the law at least formally looks like something. Otherwise, essentially, we as a party disagree with this and do not accept any autonomy, because autonomy essentially leads only to the creation of a new political oligarchy, and not to decentralisation and democratisation of Serbia. This article, in fact, brings the province's authorities into the status of a second-degree body to resolve private entrepreneurs' complaints. So far, the job has been done by the Ministry of Business and Privatisation. The most logical thing is that it still does that job. Also, I want to say that this job should be left to the Ministry, because the Ministry of Economy and Privatisation already has one sector that deals with private entrepreneurship. It is also controversial in this article that it is not clear what entrepreneurs are thinking. By the power vested in the Privatisation Act, in two to four years, we will have Serbia's full privatisation; so there will be no social sector and so will all be in the private sector. It remains unclear which entrepreneurs are meant to do; whether the owners of trade shops, or others; or all entrepreneurs, means private businesses. Finally, one of the information I received from Priboj - this morning a coup was made in Priboj and the crisis headquarters took over the premises of the Assembly of the Municipality of Priboj. I'm asking if we're going to be here soon to discuss some new Sanjay autonomy? With representatives of DS, DSS and the Sandzak Democratic Party entering the SO premises. I'm afraid we'll discuss another autonomy in the territory of the Republic of Serbia very quickly.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u17008	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) I put to the vote Amendment 34. For 44, against 86, abstentioned 12, 34 of the 176 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dragan Markovic submitted to the 35th amendment. Representative, Government and Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 46, against 77, with 13 abstentions, 39 of the 175 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 35th amendment was submitted by MP Stevan Guduric. The proposing representative and the government have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u17009	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have proposed that Article 35 be amended and read: "Autonomic Region of Vojvodina, through its bodies, in accordance with the rules governing the area of privatisation, is elected at the proposal of local self-government by a member of the Tender and Auction Commission, when the subject of privatisation from the territory of the autonomous province." Reason: It is logical that it will better look at and represent the interests of the local environment, Vojvodina and Serbia. I purposely set it this way because you ask me; those who advocate it, why they didn't advocate something like this in law; why they didn't advocate something like this at first, why they didn't advocate some different law of Vojvodina in the Privatisation Act. As they wrote in the bill of law that something was proposed for some other things that they had decades ago asked for. Because the government's argument is why it refuses the amendment: "The government does not accept the amendment because the proposed formulations are contrary to Article 29, or Article 36. The privatisation law, which is prescribed that the privatisation minister educates the tender commission, i.e. the privatisation agency and the auction committee." Since in the last few days we're talking about this, a dozen members of the state are changing some laws to bring together this swastika law, why would that be an explanation? When we talked about the Privatization Act, they didn't have a single critical remark on that part that was supposed to define it all. (President: I ask the MP not to present false information, since the decision of the Privatisation Act has been incorporated by the amendment of the Vojvodina Assembly at the cabinet session, which has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. ) Mrs. Comic, I'm talking about that it was a little thing to be asked for. (President: But it's important to be true. I said what they stood for and that they stood for - nothing. That's what this is about. I didn't say it wasn't that. But they stood up for nothing. Because if they've advocated that 5% remains an autonomous province, then someone's messed up the situation. If he thinks it's 5%, then after that, it was a shame to propose a law we've been discussing for a few days and who we'll finish in a day or two. As someone will apply it, God help him.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u17010	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u17011	Look and count the quorum in the O.R., because it's contrary to what's on the board. So, according to Article 82, a quorum should be determined.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u17012	In order - therefore, I put the amendments tabled by MP Stevan Guduric to article 35. If no one else answers for a word. [[growls]] Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) I ask the Members of Parliament to declare the amendment to Article 35. For 13, against 85 abstentions 7, they did not vote 24, out of 129 MPs, while at the same time making the quorum of the National Assembly by the electronic voting system. We're moving on to Article 36. Members of the 36th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Slobodan Tomovic and, together, MPs Jovan Deretic and Zoran Novakovic. Representative, Government and Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. [[Zagor, Tomislav Nikolic, from the site - we have no quorum.]] Does anyone want a word? About the Rules of Procedure - MP Stevan Ž. Gudurić. Here you go. I find that certain MPs do not respect the provisions of the Rules of Procedure on the ban on being thrown out of the parliamentary benches, but I am putting it into tiredness and working in the Assembly. Here you go, Mr. Guduric.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u17013	I just pointed out a violation of article 82 and you didn't do it. So you violated Rule 28 because you don't stick to the Rules of Procedure. I said I doubted the electronic system and asked for a quorum to be determined, and you didn't put it on the plea - to determine that.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u17014	I would remind the MP that the MPs voted on his amendment. I'm sorry his MPs weren't here to support the amendment, but what's there? The result of the vote was such that it determines a 129 quorum, allowing the Assembly to make full decisions. You are now making an objection to Article 28. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which refers to the violation of the Rules of Procedure by the Chairman. Do you want the Assembly to make a statement about it? [[Sagar.]] Yeah. ) As a representative of the parliamentary group, National MP Tomislav Nikolic is present in the O.R.? The MP Tomislav Nikolic is present in the hall. Please, there is the word Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the parliamentary group. I would pray that, officially and formally, the form this congregation must respect is seeking your right. [[Comment by Ambassador Nikolic is not heard.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u17015	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in order to know whether we are deciding the amendments properly, I ask that before this vote we just determine the quorum, to determine whether we have the right to decide on the amendments or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u17016	Thank you. I ask the MPs to establish a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. After a while. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-29-0.u17017	I realize we don't have a quorum, I'm setting a break. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Bon appétit. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002. I would like to inform you that according to official record, the session should be attended by 165 MPs. Please insert identification cards into MPs to determine the quorum. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that we have a quorum and that we can continue to work. I would like to inform you that the following MPs will be absent: Stevan Lilić, Meho Omerović, Vladan Jovicic, Vladimir Dobrosavljevic, Cedomir Jovanovic, Jelena Milenkovic, Dragan Jocic and Zoran Novakovic in the morning. I am informing the National Assembly that they are invited to attend: the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia; the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislatory; Nenad Canak, President of the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina and Dr Predrag Filipov, Vice-President of the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, acting as the authorised representatives of the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, who has submitted a bill laying down certain competences of the Autonomous Province, whose consideration is under way. Also, according to members 83 and 84. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that I invited representatives of the People's Movement "Resistance", as well as representatives of the Association of Families of Kidnapped and Missing Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija to this session. Moving to 2. Point of the agenda: - PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE DETERMINATION OF THE AUTONOMAL SUPPORT (resumption in particular) The Members of the 36th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Slobodan Tomović and joint MPs Jovan Deretic and Zoran Novaković. We have one word from the Rules of Procedure.
