ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22774	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the 5th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 132 MPs attend today's session. To determine the quorum, please insert your identification cards into the MPs. I find that the application of the electronic system has established that we have a quorum for work and that we can continue the work of the session on the established agenda. I would like to inform you that the following MPs will be absent: Zaharija Trnavčević, Jelena Milenković-Orlić, Predrag Stojanović, Slobodan Pavlovic, Milos Lučić, Miroslav Martic, Mirko Rosic and National MP Milena Andrić - before noon. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. Also, according to members 83 and 84. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly of Natasa Micic invited representatives of the Centre for Free Elections and Democracy, the National Movement "Resist", the National Democratic Institute, the Association of University Teachers and Teachers of Serbia - the Kolubara Section and the representatives of USAID. I welcome the guests present. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: - PROPOSAL OF THE RADIFUSION (specificities) I remind you that at yesterday's session we started a debate on the amendment to Article 6, which was jointly submitted by MPs Milos Nesović, Branko Ružic and Rajko Baralic. People's MPs Rajko Baralic, the authorised representative of the amendments and Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the DOS parliamentary group, participated in the debate. We are continuing the search under this amendment. After yesterday's announcement, today the word has, as the first, MP Vojislav Seselj, president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22775	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment should be accepted because the agency cannot be an independent and independent body, as it is formulated in law. It may be an independent organ, but it's an organ within the executive system. The measure of its independence is seen as an independent measure by the highest authority of the executive authority, but to that end it must be dependent on the highest body of the legislative authority. This is, in the nature of things, the activity of the executive government, because it is so sensitive, delicate, since it is a media sphere which is very dangerous in terms of the possibility of abuse by the executive government. Only this kind of abuse is referred to as serious abuse. Then the Agency's advice should be directly linked to the legislative authority. If it is directly related to the legislative authority - in one way it already is, since its members are elected by the legislative authority - then it should also be responsible for their work by the legislative authority. There is no Institute of Responsibility here. There is only precise when, individually by force of the law, the mandate of individual members of the council ceases, but the responsibility of the council in general, legal and political responsibility of the council, absolutely does not exist. Such an organ, as the council here is conjecture, does not exist in our system absolutely. Every organ, regardless of the degree of independence or independence, must be responsible for someone’s actions. It is not possible to talk about independence here, because independence exists only in terms of three branches of government: legislative, executive and judicial. The judicial authority is independent of enforcement and legislative, enforcement and legislative in relation to the court, etc. These authorities are independent of each other, but not entirely. There's some kind of control instrument. Parliament can control the executive power -- it has the instrument of overthrowing the government at its disposal. The executive power can control parliament - there is an instrument available for disbanding the National Assembly, as the president of the Republic is an executive authority. He's the head of the executive. The judicial authority has the ability to control both executive and legislative; it can annul their general acts, the Constitutional Court, may have their individual acts, these are regular courts. This body simply squishes in that system of division of power, because it doesn't answer to anyone. There is no possibility that anyone can disband the agency's advice at all here, because it is politically estimated that he is not doing his job. That's not what you predicted, as you're not predicting another thing. Some new government will simply abolish this law of yours and then change everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22776	Replication rights, MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the DOS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22777	Mrs. Micic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have called for the right to the replica because of the obvious misreading. So Article 6 through this amendment deals with the issue of public work, as I understood the proposing of this amendment, through a proposal to include in the law a new position which would oblige the agency to give a one-year, regular annual report to parliament. The subsequent members of this law, in particular Article 33, which defines the making of statutes as an internal act of the agency, have been left with the possibility of something like that, especially through a clause that is also an integral part of the law, which says the statute is becoming legal since it is verified by the republican parliament. I think it's a good intervention, but it will certainly be precisely determined by the statute, since there are other obligations that must be established by the statute, for example, the number of employees, the amount of their income, the way they are financed, the room and all that are, among other things, the obligations, partly, the work of this agency. This is not about the independence and neutral status of the agency. The Agency must be independent of the broadcaster and must be dependent on the executive and legislative authorities, as this law is passed. Otherwise, it would be exactly what the opposition's basic criticism -- a political manipulation agency. If we have established that there is no independence from the executive and legislative authority, which is clear through the views of this law, then I urge you to pay attention to Article 37, which specifies the ability to control the Agency's work. That possibility is, above all, within the jurisdiction of the court. So again, it is independent of politics and of us as MPs, and there is the possibility of a administrative dispute. The Agency's decision cannot be disputed by parliament before, and that is a good solution. This is about a paradox. On the one hand, the draft law is criticised as a law that does not really escape broadcasting from the policy domain, while on the other hand, it speaks of the inability to control the work of the Agency by representatives of the executive, or legislative authority. That's good. This amendment in its essence is useful, but I think we would open up an entire field and a series of problems if we started to set an object that would be determined by the statutes we solve by law itself. We'd better leave it for the statutes, specify the time limit in which the report is submitted, see if it's going to be at the end of the current year or a year after the application of this law, etc. Not a bad amendment, but I don't think it's for the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22778	According to the Rules of Procedure? Here's a word from MP Vojislav Seselj, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22779	I didn't talk about Cedomir Jovanovic or his presentation at all, I didn't look back at his exposure at all. I was talking about an amendment submitted by a group of MPs. He responded to my arguments, although he had no business rights to replication. I'm not running away from this kind of response, but that answer should be provided here by a representative of the government, not by the head of the DOS parliamentary group. Secondly, the report is not something that provides the public with work. The public works are provided by journalists attending meetings of the agency's council. The report is an act under the control of the National Assembly. A report is being submitted, meaning it is being discussed, that the Assembly is deciding whether to accept or not. The result would be, if the report is accepted - trust was given to the agency's advice. If the report is not accepted, the agency's advice must resign itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22780	National MP - you have just violated the Rules of Procedure by misapplying your offer to the Rules of Procedure. The right to replica is my discretionary authority, to decide when anyone can get it or not. You, for example, got a line last night. Are any of the authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Adam Urosevic. Does a representative of the applicants of the amendment want a word? Here's a word from MP Milos Lukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22781	Dear People's MPs, the Honorable Presidency, there is no representative of the government, but I will present briefly the position of the Assembly Club on Article 8(1) where we have proposed that the words "Government of the Republic of Serbia" be replaced by the words: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia". Given the importance of the document, which is - the strategy for the development of broadcasting in the Republic, brought by the agency, our parliamentary group proposes that this document be adopted with the consent of the National Assembly. Article 8(1) is in complete contrast to Article 6, paragraph 1, and in particular point 2. It's a bill of law. In fact, if we look at the text of Article 6 we will be absolutely clear that it insists on independence there and that practically, in this way, the Serbian government has once again seized a part of the authority that does not belong to it. It is, for who knows which time, a practical attempt to keep this congregation on the edges of all the events that are important to this country. When it comes to broadcasting, it is certain that it is one area which, because of the attempt to regulate it in this way, represents one significant resource and we believe that the Serbian Parliament should have direct interference and that it must have direct insight into the work of this area. There is also a question of the relationship between the Assembly and the Government. We here now just have to pass the law and then we can leave it all to the government, and I think that this is the organ that the people chose directly and deserve to exercise control in this way. If this member is associated with the other members of the law, especially the members from 22 to 33, who regulate the work of the agency's council, it is practically only increasing the impression I made, which is that it is necessary that the Serbian Parliament has direct insight and that it is provided with work reports, rather than with the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I therefore believe that this amendment is in place and should be supported, and this way I appeal to all MPs, regardless of what parliamentary groups, that the more they respect parliament as a place of decision on all important issues in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22782	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Here you go. The word is made by MP Vojislav Seselj, president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22783	I agree with the amendment applicant as much as I think this existing text must be changed, that it cannot be a strategy for the development of broadcasting in the Republic of Serbia to bring advice to the agency, or agency in general, with the consent of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. First, it is not specified whether consent is given before or after. Secondly, this is the constitutional jurisdiction of the government. With my amendment, which follows and which I will especially explain, I have already asked the government to bring a development strategy to the agency's proposal. This is the original jurisdiction of the highest authority of the executive authority. Serbia's overall development strategy brings, on a proposal from the government, the National Assembly. Secondly, there is also a point 2) that is very serious and so far no one has turned their attention to it. It is related to point 1) directly, because it is said that the Agency is in control and is concerned about the consistent application of the provisions of this law. This is where the agency, at this point, is built as a state administration, which means that the agency will have its inspectors, that they will exercise power. The agency will also bring sublaws. She can even prescribe certain penalties, after all. You're setting up the agency as an authority of the state administration, and you're not even aware of it. She's an organ of the state administration parallel to the government. She's not under anyone's control. These are two very dangerous points to talk about. Of course, maybe that's what you wanted. Maybe someone who suggested that on behalf of you really wanted the agency to act like this. It's just, what does that mean? Whether in other areas of social life, the most serious one, an initiative of this character will appear -- that broadcasting is not under the control of either parliament, government, or court, but of its own agencies. Well, then the police or at least the State Security Service -- they're not under the control of parliament, of the government, of the court, of their agencies. And finally the Army. It's just those three instruments that are of interest to the Western forces and NATO; the media, especially the electronic media, the military and the police -- will act as three agencies that you will make formally independent. Who do you think I'm independent of? From the executive, legislative and judicial authorities in Serbia, but they will be dependent on someone. You know very well from whom.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22784	Time. The word is from MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the DOS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22785	In fact, Article 8 lays down the competences of the Agency. If I have understood this amendment, in fact, in position 1, an amendment is proposed, from the position of granting consent to a defined strategy, for the Serbian Government to be subordinated to the Serbian parliament. It is logical that it is the work of the executive authority, which cannot step out of this law, which is passed by the Republic's parliament. It is not functional to pass on this obligation to parliament, which is burdened with a different kind of activity, with a different dynamic, so that we could not respond in a necessary and quality manner to this duty. As far as responsibility and control are concerned, she's absolutely judicial. There is a possibility of complaints and a decision shall be taken after the administrative procedure, which shall be conducted before the competent courts. Therefore, in the case of the Agency's work, that is, its council cannot be ruled by either the government or parliament. They're in control of the courts. All those considered to be damaged may initiate judicial proceedings and I believe that these court proceedings will give a good answer to their demands. The other kind of argument is not acceptable and it does not have a foothold in the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22786	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. Do you want a word? There is a word from MP Vojislav Seselj, as the applicant for the amendment and as head of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22787	I can do anything, and I'm still going to open up the possibility of Mr. Jovanovic plowing with me, because at first I'm going to express my admiration for legal knowledge, so he has the opportunity to replicate me right away. I really admire his legal skills and his skill. I propose, ladies and gentlemen, that the government agency propose a strategy for the development of broadcasting in the Republic of Serbia and that the government is so responsible for this strategy, and then that it bears responsibility for its realization, rather than simply giving a mere agreement. For he who gives consent does not bear responsibility. He just doesn't express opposition, he agrees with something and leaves it to another authority to do the job on its own. A moment ago, Mr. Jovanovic here spoke of the possibility of judicial protection which could be resorted to by those entities considered affected by some decision by the agency's council. However, the two-stage principle of administrative procedure must be ensured here previously. There's no such thing as a principle. What would that two-degree principle mean? You have already institutionalised a new state administration by adopting the Law on Public Procurement, but you have not completely singled out this state administration from the Serbian Government's intelligence, as in this case. And it is understood that one who is considered to be affected by the individual solution of the first-degree authority of the administration, such as the Public Procurement Authority, or some ministry, or this agency, has in the second-degree administrative process the possibility of complaining to the Serbian government. Our administrative procedure respects the principle of two-stageness, and only if it has been rejected in a second-degree administrative procedure does it have the opportunity to conduct a administrative dispute before the competent court. There is no two-degree principle here, and thus this law is contrary to the Serbian Constitution. Furthermore, I propose that point 4 be deleted, which states that the Agency prescribes technical, organisational and programming conditions for the production and broadcasting of programmes, in accordance with the provisions of this law. How can the agency prescribe technical, organisational and programming conditions? Perhaps programming can, but technical and organisational could not, is not competent, because as the agency's advice is conceived, it represents various standing associations and is established on the principle of political representation. No one can convince me that people who will be in front of these standing organizations and associations, and even the authorities, can be competent to deal with technical, organisational and programming conditions. Organisational conditions must be the same as for all other legal entities, i.e. legal persons under the economic system. In organisational terms, there are no more significant deviations allowed, and why would they? A legal entity engaged in broadcasting must be organised like any other company in the country. So that's where it falls under the general legal standards. As far as technical conditions are concerned, the Agency's advice and agencies in general are not able to deal with it, at least not in this way, as the agency's advice has been conceived here, as its highest authority. Secondly, I ask that point 5 be deleted, which stipulates that "the agency prescribes rules that are binding on broadcasters providing for the implementation of broadcasting policy in the Republic of Serbia". Is there any other provision where you're even treating the issue of broadcasting policy? What's a broadcasting policy? Did you conceive it at all? Is it adopted at the level of the government, or at the level of parliament, or is someone else going to determine broadcasting policy? I know what your broadcasting policy is, I see it from SRS treatment in the state media in Serbia, on state television, on TV "Politics", on TV "Studio B" and on parastate media such as "BK" and "Pink". It's clear to me what your policy is, but that policy of yours is not conceived, officially and made public as such. That's the problem. And here you admit that there is this policy, but it will remain a secret to everyone except those who will implement that policy. Where is she conceived, in what way? Point 7 says the agency decides on the performances of natural and legal persons and on the complaints of broadcasters regarding the work of other broadcasters. I ask that this be simplified and that it stands "on the performances of natural and legal persons", and nothing more, everything else is understood. This is just one technical text repair. But I ask that attitude 2 be changed and that it reads: "Preventing the broadcasting of programs that destroy freedoms and rights of citizens because of their belonging to a particular race, gender, nation and religion, political definition, education, social origin, property, or any personal property." I think point 3 is improving because it now reads "averting broadcasting of a programme containing information that encourages discrimination on a variety of grounds". You know, it's not the same to prevent information transmissions and prevent broadcasts. The program could put all this at risk. At times, however, information that is objective must be broadcast, even though someone subjectively felt that the transmission of such information was only a threat to his right.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22788	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? There is a word from MP Zoran Angelkovic, the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22789	I think it is really necessary for this amendment that Mr. Seselj proposed to be accepted for several reasons. First of all, I am talking about Article 8(1), which speaks of "agement bringing a strategy for the development of broadcasting in the Republic of Serbia, with the consent of the Government of the Republic of Serbia". The strategy for the development of broadcasting in the Republic of Serbia must be the most important task of the government of the Republic of Serbia in the coming period. Basically, it was necessary for this assembly to verify the strategy for the development of broadcasting in general, in order only then to pass the law that is before us. But, well, if it isn't already, if this dynamic isn't determined, we already have the law in front of us today, then it's necessary that the opinion can be given by the agency, and not by the other hand - that the Government of the Republic of Serbia gives its opinion. This stems from the fact that the Government must determine the long-term needs of the Republic in this area; it cannot possibly determine what is the needs of the Republic in this area and what frequencies will be used, to systematise free frequencies and, besides, to determine the direction to be developed and what number of frequencies will be according to what strategy we want. What we talked about yesterday is whether we want Serbia to develop a system in the coming period using digital frequency distribution or whether it will return to the analogue system. If we're going to make a strategy based on an analogue system, then we won't have 200-300 frequencies (as said yesterday in the Assembly) but we'll have less, but if we're going to make a strategy for the development of the Republic of Serbia that goes on the digital system, then maybe we'll have several hundred thousand radios, or several hundred thousand televisions. Therefore, I do not believe that the agency can have such an expert team and a team that can make such a serious strategy, and I think it is necessary that the Government of the Republic of Serbia does, at the very least, and that this assembly can verify it. For these reasons, I think it is important from the position of economic development, in the end and from the position of the future in which this country wants to go when it comes to the development of broadcasting, that the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Serbian Parliament take over, and that the agency gives only an opinion.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22790	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Radojko Petrovic, Zoran Andjelkovic, Velimir Zivojinović, Milos Nesovic, Rajko Baralic, Nebojsa Jović and Dusan Cvetkovic. Does a representative of the applicants of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Radojko Petric.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22791	Dear Presidency, honourable MPs, on behalf of the SPS with a group of MPs, I have tabled an amendment to Article 8. A bill of this law, to be implemented in it, to be amended and complemented. The amendment proposes amendments to the Government's proposal on the jurisdiction of the Republic Agency. The authority of the Republic Agency shall be taxed in this Article and shall relate to the adoption of a broadcasting strategy in the Republic of Serbia, the issue of licences for the broadcasting of programmes, the regulation of technical, programming and other conditions, the exercise of supervision and control. In point 1) of Article 1 of this Article, it is proposed that the Agency adopts a strategy for the development of broadcasting in Serbia with the consent of the Republic Government. Taking into account the importance of broadcasting, the amendment proposes that the agency adopts a strategy for developing broadcasting to Serbia, not with the government's consent, but with the consent of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I think in that part of the amendment, the amendment is identical with the amendment submitted by fellow Soviets and I don't think that part of the amendment is disputed, not to be accepted. The second part of the amendment refers to item 2 of point 3 where the Agency is intended, inter alia, to take measures in the field of broadcasting in order to prevent programmes containing information that promotes discrimination, hatred or violence against a person or a group of persons due to their belonging or non-distribution of a particular race, religion, nation, ethnic group or gender. The amendment proposes that the agency be obliged to take measures in the field of broadcasting in order to prevent broadcasting of programmes containing information that encourages discrimination, hatred or violence against the person due to the belonging or non-distribution of the political party. So the suggestion is to add that part. We all know that there is intolerance between members of different political parties, and we also know that this intolerance, this hatred very often occurs in the broadcasting of our radio and television stations. In view of the above, it is necessary to accept an amendment to supplement the Government's proposal, to make it mandatory for the Agency to take measures to prevent radio-television stations from broadcasting a programme containing information that encourages discrimination, hatred or violence against a person because of their belonging or non-department to a political party. Therefore, the proposal is to make a supplement in this part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22792	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? Yeah. ) Here you are, MP Vojislav Seselj, president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22793	I would refer only to the second point, i.e. the second position of the amendment, where the words "nation" are asked to be added after the word "political party". This indicates only those extreme repercusions that may be caused by your clumsyly formulated point 3). Once again, I will comment on this point 3) You here say that the applicants of the bill, that the agency also performs prevention, broadcasting programs containing information - I underline this - information that encourages discrimination, hatred or violence against a person or a group of persons because of their belonging or not belonging to a particular race, religion, nation, ethnic group or half. The information must not be censored, no matter what it is. The information about the true, objective event must be broadcast, even if it affects us all. What does that mean now? If you forbid information that is unfavourable to members of a particular race, then it means that no information about Israel's genocide against the Palestinian people should be broadcast, because someone can immediately charge the emitter with anti-Semitism, anti-Semitism. The genocide that Israel is carrying out is objective. Or, no information should be published about some multinational media in the West that spreads various forms of hatred, leads propaganda and psychological warfare, if they are in the hands of the owners who are Jews; or, attack on Soros and his foundation, etc.; it can be said immediately that it is racial hatred. I know many honorable and honest Jews, and it does not occur to me that at any time I show hatred for the Jews, starting with some significant writers, and beyond, or Jews who have stuck their creative being in the history of the Serbian people. But I also know some who are bad guys, who are bad people, etc. When I attack these bad people, like Philip David, it doesn't mean I'm spreading my hatred for the Jews. That's why this has to be a different formula here. It must remain just a program, not software content against one nation, race, religious groups, etc. But when it comes to objective information, it must not be censored. Or, faith-related information - it must be allowed to broadcast true and objective information about the crimes of Roman popes, especially those of the Middle Ages, from the time of the pornocratic government; historical science knows the period of pornography in the history of the Roman Catholic Church. (President: I warn you of an excessive amount of time. Here, I'll be done right away. These are objective historical facts. Or, crimes in crusades; crimes in Jasenovac; broadcasting information of this content cannot mean violation of racial, religious, national rights. These are objective facts and may justice be one whose facts are embedded in his own history.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22794	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) National MP Vojislav Seselj once proposed to amend the name of the supertitle above Articles 9 and 9. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. You want to use the total time, both as head and as applicant of the amendment - six minutes? Do you use it?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22795	If it suits you better, I'll do it for you. I ask that this title be changed above article 9 which is now being read - by adopting a strategy for the development of broadcasting. I ask that this title be - proposing a strategy for the development of broadcasting, and that what concerns the Agency's competence be focused on the Agency, in co-operation with the communication authority, proposing to the government of the Republic of Serbia the adoption of a strategy for the development of broadcasting in the Republic of Serbia. This would be very important, if the government were to be the most subject of control, not a group of nine people, in different ways brought in, by different criteria, which sometimes won't even know what their job is, I guarantee it, especially those people who come from the university, from religious communities, from NGOs, etc., who will often not interfere in their business, and the government will be hidden in the background. The government will continue to manage either some non-governmental factor that is above the government itself, but not those whose legal duty it is. They will only be guinea pigs, often seeking the rage of dissatisfied citizens, dissatisfied political parties, and will be neither guilty nor liable for the negativity that will be proposed in practice. It is therefore important here, and therefore I ask that the title be changed above Article 9, to precisely formulate who is bringing the strategy and who is responsible for the strategy, and then if the agency is given certain competence to formulate who is the senior authority in the executive system, who is above the agency, in order to satisfy the principle of two-stage administrative procedure. I know why Mr. Sabic is sitting out there in the seventh or eighth row and not sitting in first as a representative of the government. He must be uncomfortable when criticising the government's proposal for failure to respect the principle of two-stageness in the administrative procedure, and he is aware as a lawyer that this principle of two-stageness must be respected in the administrative procedure, but someone in front of the government would have to answer on this issue. We saw the Deputy Prime Minister yesterday when there was a principle debate and his principled political views, and now that it's purely legal, there's no one to represent the government, no one feels the need to answer. I respect Mr Jovanovic as an extremely excellent lawyer and he has now proved it. I'm miraculously surprised, and I can't even get into his legal concepts, but someone needs to explain to us the lack of the principle of dual-stageness in the administrative procedure. That's the point, and I'm going to repeat this all day long to you, that the more striking it enters both your ears and the ears of the entire Serbian public that this law does not provide respect for the principle of dual-stageness in the administrative procedure. When someone is unhappy with the agency's individual solution, whom they can appeal to before they get to court. It's got to be someone. If there is a complaint about the minister's solution and the appeal is filed to the government, then there must be, because the government is exercising administrative control over the ministry's work, and someone who will exercise administrative control over the agency's work. Are we clear that the agency is the government's authority? That's what Milka understands, but she's ashamed to show it. The Agency is a state administration body and there must be an opportunity to manage administrative control over any government authority; it must be subject to administrative control by the authority of the administration within the local self-government, on the other hand. There's no one here to control the agency. The agency is so well-conceived that it's an absolute body without administrative control. Judicial control is probably possible, but citizens also have the right to administrative control. Maybe I'm talking for free about you guys in the O.R. and what you're telling me, maybe the people aren't listening, but it's my conscience that matters to me. It is important for me to make all the remarks of the Serbian Radical Party on this legal project of yours and to prove to you that it is not enough for you to have counter-worked all other MPs of the Serbian Radical Party. It's enough when one Serbian radical is here, as if he's a whole parliamentary group. The difference doesn't feel right. I justify those who are not lawyers by nature, so they don't have to understand this problem, but I absolutely don't justify those who have legal education, and you keep quiet when these questions are on the table. I dare you to make your point on this matter, to say what you think about what there is no principle of two-stage administrative procedure here. That's what every lawyer should say. Maybe you as lawyers think there should be an exception here, that there should be no two-stage principle here.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22796	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? The president of the DOS parliamentary group, Mr Cedomir Jovanovic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22797	Mrs. Micic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I think we are having a debate on those amendments concerning article 6 and I don't see that we would have to repeat it from opportunity to opportunity. Therefore, the Agency is an independent and independent organisation, which also exercises public authority under this law and regulations adopted under this law. She is not the authority of the state administration, and if anyone can't understand it then we can't do anything else but repeat to him once again the members of the law that specify and determine the legal status of the agency. As far as control is concerned, it's a court of law. There is a possibility of administrative proceedings. He's not two degrees and it's clear, but precisely from the fact that I previously cited results in the basis of denying such an option. Finally, I suggest you also read the 1991 Serbian Radio Television Act and see the possibility of control and appeal in situations where the need for such a thing arises. You will see that there are no possible solutions coming out of the framework set by this law. Therefore, the court is in charge of control, there is a possibility of appeal; there is no possibility of a two-stage administrative procedure because the Republic Broadcasting Agency is not the authority of the state administration.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22798	Right on the line, MP Rodoljub Sabic. The Republic was challenged by MP Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22799	I'm sorry, ladies and gentlemen, for taking my word, but it's still my turn that someone doesn't think that someone's sitting here is afraid to come out when they're called directly. In fact, although Mr. Jovanovic explained what the concept is, I want to answer some of the questions directly, which Mr. Seselj calls me for. I'm sitting there because I'm not a representative of the government by act and I'm sitting with MPs who are colleagues from my party. As far as the two-stage problem is concerned in the administrative procedure, of course it is always good and often applicable. It is so in most countries, even in this one, but in most countries, and even in this one, there are exceptions; you know that very well as a lawyer, it existed before, it existed in the government where you were vice president and it is not at all disputed. This is a solution provided for by the Federal Law on Administrative Procedure. Let's just say I mention one famous, scary law on special terms of real estate traffic. You remember well that there was no appeal against the solution, even the finance minister. But it's not a problem here, that we don't deal with the problems of the process. What's actually a real problem -- we can't have goats and money at the same time. So, if we want to emancipate broadcasting entities from the influence of the government and if we trust something related to fundamental and status issues and activity to an institution that is social, which is not government, then of course we cannot put control of the activity of that agency under the authority of the administration or government, because it would be a farce and that is the problem of that concept. That's why there's no administrative control in the administrative procedure, but, you'll agree with me, and administrative - judicial control is control. It is often, rightly, more effective than the authorities of the administration. So that's the problem. We wouldn't have a consequential concept, we wouldn't have that media emancipation if we had this agency's acts under control, for example, my ministry or government; that's the problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22800	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Milos Nesovic, Branko Ružic and Rajko Baralic together submitted the 9th amendment. The word is made by MP Milos Nesovic, representative of the amendment applicants to Article 9. Proposal for a law on broadcasting.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22801	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, in front of the SPS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 9, which says that the agency in co-operation with the regulatory body responsible for telecommunications brings a strategy for the development of broadcasting in the Republic of Serbia. In my opinion, one of the key issues in the broadcasting law is the development strategy. The development strategy is, given our emission technique and the technique that we have in broadcasting organisations, outdated and strategy must equip new technology, it must define the use of transmission, i.e. the organisation of transmission of broadcasting, earth, cable, satellite. It also depends on the quality of speech transmissions, images, depending on the participation of broadcasters in the training of their broadcasting organisations. For this reason, I suggested that the development strategy could be prepared by the Republic Broadcasting Agency in co-operation with the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Since this is a matter of the national interest of the Republic of Serbia, I think this should be adopted by the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22802	Thank you. Does anyone else sign up for a word? Please, MP Zoran Angelkovic, authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22803	Ladies and gentlemen, basically this is a trail of that former member and those previous debates about what the state really wants in this area. If we start from the assumption, not from the assumption but from the fact that in the extreme case, in all of Europe, this area is considered an area that, if I may say, is the cornerstone of the development of a whole system that covers the development of electronics, but not only that, but that includes a large number of employment, which accepts and absorbs even, and belongs to a high-profit area, it is logical that this area is governed by the Government and, at the very least, the Assembly. That'd be good. At least, the Serbian government. In addition, it is impossible for agency members in the way they choose to be able to understand the development strategy in this area. They may be able to conduct these tasks that are provided for in Article 13, to oversee the programme of broadcasters, to monitor what is written in the law, but that they determine the development strategy of how much and how the future of broadcasting will develop in this Serbia, whether we will go, how we will employ. And anyway, let's take an example now, let's say -- there are 1,300 radios and television stations. That's 50,000 employees. Now we say -- we want to fire 30,000, because it's going to be 1,000 less. I guess it's the government and the state's interest to have another 1,000 at the very least, but that's why we need to create a strategy for the development of broadcasting conditions, digital or other systems, in fact now digital, which will allow us to employ another 30,000, 40,000 people. If this is done by an agency that is conditionally narrowly professional, it is better to say that it discusses what kind of programme will be broadcast, from this law, that it is not objectively professional to create a development strategy in this area. Are we going to be an Intel in New Belgrade to train and the state to stand behind it, to be that basis of development in this area, or are we going to say what's going on at the world market, so we're going to buy it and develop it in that sense. That's what I think the government has to do with its teams and the expert team to prepare, not some agency.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22804	The word is made by MP Vojislav Seselj, president of the SRS parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22805	This amendment, ladies and gentlemen, once again raises the issue of key competence in defining the strategy for the development of broadcasting in Serbia, whether it will be the Government or the Assembly. With both concepts, whether it is a government or a Assembly as a key body that decides on a development strategy, this issue of legal status of the agency must be resolved. We see now that the representatives of the authorities are in collegiate on this matter. Earlier, Cedomir Jovanovic, as head of the ruling party's parliamentary group, said -- the agency is not an authority of the administration. We also saw Rodoljub Sabic, as Minister of Government, confirm that it was the authority of the administration. Secondly, Cedomir Jovanovic admits that the agency is doing the tasks of the state administration, and says he is not the authority of the state administration. Rodoljub Sabic says -- there are exceptions to the two-stage principles in the work of administrative authorities and, as an example, cites the principle, an exception from 1986, from the communist system. At that time, the principle was exceptional in that law on the ban on availability, on the control of the availability of real estate, as already defined by the law. There's no other exception. There must be a two-stage principle in the work of the State Administration. Only the principle of double-stageness in the right sense of the word does not exist when decisions are taken by the government as a whole, as the highest authority of the state administration, and after the government's decision, it goes directly to court. If the ministry's decision contains the principle of two-stageness and if each solution, the individual solution of the minister, the citizen can appeal to the government in general, there is no basis for the individual agency's decision not to appeal to the government as a whole. The Agency cannot be the authority of the State Administration above the Ministry. She is, by the nature of things, the authority of the state administration. What it can accomplish most is to be fair to the ministries in its responsibilities. He can't possibly be above the ministry. The fact that it is not subject to any ministry individually as regards the control of its work testifys that the agency is equal to ministers, or ministries. It cannot be fair to the government, nor to the authorities above the government, on certain issues that are in the strict jurisdiction of the government. She may be subordinated to the congregation, but she is not subordinate to the congregation at all. (President: Time. There is no possibility that the Assembly is controlling the work of that agency.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22806	No more reported for the word on this amendment. National MPs Rajko Baralic, Đura Lazic, Jovan Todorovic, Dragan Jovanovic and Branko Ruzic together proposed that the title above members 10 and member 10 be deleted. Does a representative of the applicants of the amendment want a word? Here's a word from MP Rajko Baralic, representative of the amendment applicants to Article 10. Proposal for a law on broadcasting.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22807	Ms. Micic, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected journalists, on behalf of the SPS, with several colleagues (and you are trying to keep talking about wings I want to inform you that the SPS is set up as a bee society and you will never force the bees to fly after the bumblebee) I have submitted to Article 10 of the amendment to delete the superscription and to delete the article 10, with the following explanation: we believe that it is a member of the 10th too principled character and that a member of the 10th produce large obligations on the emitters and that it is possible for the control of the emitter to be carried out in a way that does not correspond to the citizens of Serbia or the broadcasters themselves. It's too much left to the controllers themselves that, according to their findings or otherwise, they estimate under the given circumstances in which that control is carried out. We know there's a risk that if there's no control, the emitters do things that are contrary to the principles and principles of the law that you're proposing. We also believe that the risk is greater, if it remains this formulated Article 10, as the legislator has suggested. So it would be too volunteering, how tomorrow turns out, how someone likes it or doesn't like it. The broadcasters must have one normal environment to ensure that they normally develop their radio-television stations and do not depend on any will that is not formally prescribed in this law, and Article 10 does not provide that. That's why we suggest that article 10 be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22808	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22809	Ladies and gentlemen, the SRS supports this amendment, because it shows how pointless Article 10 is. In Article 10, you provide that the control of the implementation of this law covers the control of the work of broadcasters with regard to consistent application and affirmation of the principles on which the regulation of relations in the field of broadcasting is based, as well as in the implementation of other obligations which the broadcasters have under the provisions of this law. This article would make sense if the whole law were called the law on the work of broadcasters with regard to consistent application and affirmation of the principles on which regulation is based, etc. It's not the law on emitters, it's the law on broadcasting in general. Therefore, this law must provide for the control of the Agency's work and the Agency's authorities, particularly the Agency's advice. It is impossible, within our legal order, under our constitutional system, that there is a state body that is not under any control. There is a possibility of judicial protection in the administrative procedure if individual rights of various broadcasters and other persons are violated. However, who will control the Agency's work with regard to its general competences. There's no administrative control. She absolutely doesn't exist. There is no body of state that could incur the Agency under this form of control. The government could be the government, but in the nature of the essence of broadcasting, by the nature of its sensitivity and subtlety, political danger, this should be done by the National Assembly. One member should define the National Assembly as an authority that will directly exercise control over the work of the Agency and its council, from the aspect of constitutionality and the legality of the general principles of legal order. This would mean a periodic submission of the Agency's advice to the National Assembly, a debate on the report, criticism of the Agency's work, etc. You are thus establishing the advice of the agency and the agency in general as an incomparable organ. The media, especially the electronic media, will not be allowed to attack them, to criticise them, because they are directly existentially dependent on them, and the Assembly has no jurisdiction to criticise them except through parliamentary issues, which we have not had in a long time.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22810	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Rajko Baralic, Đura Lazic, Jovan Todorovic, Dragan Jovanovic and Branko Ruzic. Does a representative of the applicants of the amendment want a word? The word is made by MP Dragan Jovanovic, representative of the amendment's applicants.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22811	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Vice President, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, we have submitted an amendment to article 13, requesting that Article 13 be deleted. Why? Article 13 is quite undefined and quite pointless. He talks about the control of the work of the broadcaster, and in the first sentence he says - the control of the work of the broadcaster is carried out by the agency. Looking at the Agency's competences, looking at the large-scale work that the agency is doing, we find it absolutely impossible for the agency to carry out operational surveillance on the work of the broadcaster. That's what the bill promoter saw, so in the second part of the sentence, he said, "The Agency controls on its own or by hiring an authorised organisation." None of the legislators, not even the gentlemen of the task force, knew at this time that they were responding to the authority of the broadcaster's work organisation. It could probably be the communications bureau tomorrow or some other kind of organization. At this point, however, no one has the answer to the question of what is an authorized broadcasting control organisation. We felt that this text should be deleted and that, in Article 13 of the broadcaster's work, a clearly defined supervisory authority, I suppose, by some principle, the most logical, professional principle.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22812	The word is from the president of the SRS parliamentary group, MP Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22813	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS supports this amendment, because it indicates that the agency has been given the right to monitor the absence of the Agency's work and the fact that it is known in advance that the agency will not be able to directly supervise the work of the broadcaster, but will hire authorised organisations. It's here to define authorized organizations. What kind of organizations are these? Whether such organizations already exist, so the writer of this legal project had them in mind, or assumes that they could form, or be unknown to matter, and based on ignorance, it's the easiest thing to say -- an authorized organization and to let someone else break their heads on what it is, how it's going to be formed, and how it's going to work. It could be some private agencies. There are a lot of private companies who understand the business. Does this mean that the pro-forma agency will do its job and engage them, or is it perhaps, as the amendment promoter says, the Bureau of Communications of the Government of the Republic of Serbia? As far as technical equipment is concerned, there is the government of the Republic of Serbia's most capable, most equipped. He can listen to everything, and he can listen all over the country, control the media, control all the electronic media, many newspapers, etc. His editorial policy can be seen most clearly through "The Weekly Telegraph", "Pink" and BK TV. This is the picture and opportunity of Vladimir Popovic - Baby. Maybe that's what you thought, too, but tell me who's going to be hired, who's going to be hired by the agency. Do you think the people that various institutions will send to be members of the agency's council know who might consider it? They don't know. Someone else will show up to suggest it. That someone who shows up with enough authority to suggest their choice of authorised organisation will manipulate the work of the agency's council. I guess that's so clear. Secondly, this must be an organization with some public authority. What are the new public powers to be passed on to that organization? This has to be defined, to see how many of these laws of their prescribed public authority agencies can pass on to someone else. Whether only collecting information on violations of the law, general conditions, sublegal acts, individual solutions etc. and report to the Agency, or make decisions on the administrative procedure. This way, since you haven't defined this at all, I wouldn't be surprised if the agency's administrative powers were passed on to someone else.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22814	Here's a word from the motionary, Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Zarko Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22815	Madam President, honourable Members of the People, it's something very simple. In Serbia, after the end of the competition and the assignment of frequencies, unfortunately under existing technological conditions, which are less - more of the reality we live in, that's about 300, we'll see how professional people will do it, there will be a large number of electronic media. It is obvious that the agency must empower professionals in the media, according to a very clear contract, on what they will do, more in terms of collecting, no confusion, and the recording of the programme. There is already a certain legal provision on that matter. That's what they're called. Content analysis, and in a formal sense, e.g. Control whether the legal obligations (under this law) make 20% of the total time, of 24 hours, commercials. Here, let's say, that's one of the first things they're going to control -- is the time foreseen by the advertising law respected. It can happen that someone takes advantage of the situation which is geographically far from Belgrade, 50-60 or 70% of advertisers, means they make a lot more money, and then, of course, they're more successful on the market. So it's just that the agency will empower those people who are competent in this area, and they, of course, will, according to certain principles and contracts with them, carry out this collection, analysis and expose it to the agency, so that the agency has an insight into whether the law is respected, as it is said, in a formal sense; it means whether it is more advertising than it is allowed. Then, of course, it will gradually come to the fact that people will concentrate on much more complex things, such as -- whether other legal provisions are being fulfilled, which in a formal sense may be less precise here, but essentially exist. So, nothing else is about anything else, and of course it has absolutely nothing to do with anything else, this is just what the meaning of the law is, because what the law will do if there's no one who can make sense of whether this law is ever being implemented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22816	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? Here's a word from MP Zoran Angelkovic, authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22817	Okay, now we've got a little explanation of what is meant when it comes to an engaged authorised organization that should be doing some work on behalf of the agency. But if it's just a kind of program, the length of the program, or those elements that must contain one program -- it means, advertising, educational program, news, information program and everything -- then it's just a technical part of the job. Then it's just a line of time someone uses when they broadcast the program. But here in the 13th term, it's said -- it refers to the species (what you're saying now, Mr. Korać), but it still says - the quality of the program. What agency will determine the quality of the programme, or authorized organization? If it's an agency, then it's okay. The way we choose the agency says it can deal with it, to determine the quality of the program. But who is he? Is that an accident, VIM, is it Sorosh tomorrow? Could the Assembly react to the agency’s commission? Therefore, this is about this authorized organization being able to affect the programme in fact tomorrow, not the quality, but the program of that radio-television station on the ground. For these reasons, it is necessary to specify, if it is not deleted, what are the possibilities and what are the rights and authorized organisations that would do on behalf of the agency of this job. And, secondly, they're constantly running a 200-300-frequency number and 200-300 radio stations here. It's not the same. At the same frequency, one TV station can be in Belgrade, Kruševec, Pirota, Novi Sad, etc., if respected, and now not respected, the scope of the programme's broadcasting. Thus, at 200 frequencies, 500 TV stations or radio stations are possible. That should be said, there would be no different manipulations in public about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22818	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On the 13th amendment, together with the mid-term MPs Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Adam Urosevic. Does a representative of the applicants of the amendment want a word? Here's a word from MP Milos Lukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22819	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, has practically already begun the subject of Article 13, and the MP's group of the Soviet Union has submitted an amendment to the position of 1st and 2nd of this article. When it comes to attitude one, we suggest that it be practically shortened and said, "The Agency oversees the work of the broadcaster on its own," and that there is no follow-up" or by hiring an authorised organisation." Why shouldn't he have an authorized organization? First of all, because this law does not establish the criteria that it is an organization. On the other hand, the question arises, if it is said to be an organisation that is professional, qualified, etc., its bias, or impartiality. Because these people who are already professional and qualified for this area are already engaged in some media and already have a certain position. That way we can get into a very awkward situation. So, if it's the agency that's issuing the permits, we think the agency should also monitor the work of these emitters. As for attitude 2, he is also very problematic for several reasons. It is more like a threat to broadcasters; it is said - in the exercise of competence under Article 1 of this Article, the agency is obliged to particularly care about the fact that broadcasters in all respect the conditions under which the authorisation was granted, which is particularly relevant to the type and quality of the programme. We suggest that the word "issued" be placed in place of the point, and the words "which specifically refers to the type and quality of the program" are deleted. In fact, in the exercise of supervision, the Agency is obliged to exercise control over the fulfilment of all conditions prescribed for the issue of work permits, not only the conditions relating to type and quality. When especially apostrophe of the species and quality automatically threaten the emitters to take care of what they show, etc. Thus, this position 2 has several details that point to the possibility of abuse and the possibility of self-will of those in the agency and those who exercise supervision. We need to be clear that the agency as an agency will not be the one to apply and establish all these criteria, because, regardless of all this talk of impartiality, independence, we know that it will be some political centres that will have a direct impact on the members of the agency, or on the agency itself. Therefore, we believe that as much detail as possible to erase as possible the possibility of self-will and the possibility of abuse of supervision as provided for in Article 13.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22820	The president of the SRS parliamentary group, MP Vojislav Seselj, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22821	Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment specifically stresses the need to dispel the quality control issue of the program. What does that mean, the quality of the program? Whether this is the aesthetic quality of the program, its aesthetic values in a broader sense are broader than artistic values. Is that the quality of it? Who's the one who's going to judge that? These can only be academics from that profession and their judgment on aesthetic values could be partly said to represent incomparableness. But it's also subject to criticism. This kind of quality is by nature things invaluable. Is that the professional quality of the program? You can have a program that is top quality, but by content and artistic quality it can be zero. We have movies like that. One of those movies is "Star Wars" to make it clear. Professionally, it's unconquerable, probably until today. By artistic quality, it's insignificant, at least based on my humble opinion, I'm not an expert in the area. Or is that a political quality? We have seen that for these two years, you authorities take care exclusively of the political quality of the programme, the political quality that you interpret in your own narrow ideological way. Your political quality assessments didn't match "Ravnogorska readka" on state television, you immediately threw it out. However, all anti-Serbian programmes, foreign productions, meet the criteria of your assessment of political quality and they have plenty of space on both state and para-state media. You're entering something that should depend exclusively on the market. It's yours to assess - does anyone who received the frequency broadcast the program in accordance with the law, or does it violate that law? And what's the quality of his program, it'll assess the market. After all, you also embraced someone you most often attacked in public earlier, that it ruined all the aesthetic values in music art - Željko Mitrovica. While he was JUL's, he was our coldest. JUL fell out of power, you embraced Željko Mitrovica and now these are your greatest artistic values.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22822	I'm warning you, time's over. People's MP, every time you're out of time, you've never respected time.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22823	I'll be right there. I invite you to leave quality to the market, not to your own agencies.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22824	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) National MP Vojislav Seselj proposed, with one amendment, to delete the title above Articles 14 and 14. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There's a word from MP Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22825	Ladies and gentlemen, I request an amendment to Article 14 to delete both the title and the entire member. That Article 14 says: "Natural and legal persons have the right to submit to the Agency any representations relating to the content of the broadcast programme, if they consider these programmes to be insulting or jeopardising their personal interests or general interest." When it comes to personal interest, then it's justified; if someone thinks he's hurt some personal interest, in a legal way, an illegal way. Not every injury of personal interest. If I criticise Deputy Prime Minister Zarko Korać with argument, thoroughly, essentially, his personal interest must have been injured. No one likes to be criticized and no one is in the interest of being criticized, especially if it's a harsh, fierce criticism. But he can't under this law have the right to complain to the agency, because I hurt his interest by criticizing him. There's got to be some precision here, to be said, by carrying out lies, slander. Then that makes sense. Someone who is committing an injury to other people's interests must not do it in a legal way; well, if it is slander, if it is an insult, etc. But if it's a breach of interest, which is allowed by our constitution, which is allowed under the criminal law, why would someone have the right to ask the agency to protect him from something that his own law does not protect? What the Criminal Law doesn't think should be protected, now the agency needs to assess on its own whether it will protect or not. And, what's the general interest, what citizens should put in their own protection, to call on the agency to protect. You're asking citizens to be informants, what, rat? The injured general interest; what does that mean - the injured general interest? There's no breach of general interest without breaking the law, and the only logical thing is to report a violation of the law. It is best that this wording "general interest" be cast out, because it only allows abuse. The second view says, "The Agency is obliged to submit the play without delay to the broadcaster for a statement, and to set a deadline for it, unless the play is clearly unfounded, in which case it is rejected and notified by the applicant of the play." The agency is now conducting an investigation, she's notifying the emitter, and she's requesting a statement from him. This is a typical business of the administrative procedure. (President: Are you using the next three minutes? Yes. This is another piece of evidence that this is about the government's state body. The state administration authority gets information, gets an application, asks a third broadcaster to declare to whom he has given the frequency; therefore, he is directly dependent on the agency. He pleads and then takes administrative action, after his statement. Paragraph 3 states: "If the broadcaster does not declare itself within the time limit left, or inform the agency that the play is unfounded, and the agency still considers that the play is established, it is required to take appropriate measures towards the broadcaster" - therefore, it is already threatened here with punishment, sanctions - "as if the applicant of the play is guided by how he can protect his interest". This is nice, which will be directed by the applicant of the play, but it is already taking action; and that would be fine, if there were now some higher authority than the agency whose broadcaster would complain in the administrative procedure. So, in which the principle of two degrees will be met. You completely avoided it and just now Mr. Shabic didn't know how to explain it. He calls for examples from the old communist regime, or just before Cedomir Jovanovic, to the 1991 RTS Law. For eleven years, I have thoroughly criticised this law, along with some of you, who have forgotten it and are now passing even worse laws. It is further said in paragraph 4: "The relevant measures referred to in Article 3 are considered, in particular: 1), the measures the Agency makes in accordance with this law; 2) the submission of a criminal or criminal application, or the initiation of an appropriate procedure before the competent state authorities". So, the agency has all the powers, like any other government body. These two points seem to be prescribed by the State Administration Act, or as the law is already called; as if they were prescribed, and there is no possibility of appeal for the first-degree decision of the Agency, to a first-degree solution of the Agency, in the context of the principle of two-stage administrative procedure. Because, don't forget, by decision in the second degree, the decision is just and enforceable. The prosecution does not delay the execution, and keep that in mind. The two-stage principle in the administrative procedure shall ensure that execution is delayed after the first-degree decision has been taken. It has to end the second degree in order for the solution to be executed.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22826	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Rajko Baralic, Đura Lazic, Jovan Todorovic, Dragan Jovanovic and Branko Ruzic. Does a representative of the applicants of the amendment want a word? There's a word from MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22827	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, respected journalists, with a group of SPS colleagues, I have tabled an amendment suggesting that article 14 be deleted. National MP Dr Vojislav Seselj has already given a good part of the argument, because he too had a similar amendment. I want to say that a great effort has been made here, the legislator has made a great effort to try to explain that this is not about the authority of the state administration, but he is, in fact, by what article 14 defines. We understand why such gymnastics was needed, but we are required, of course, and to say why we don't think so. We reiterate - the broadcasters will have to, once this law is passed, comply with a very strict procedure, get a two-base financial commitment, both for frequency and for programme broadcasting. They'll have to comply with a whole series of other regulations that aren't just from this law, but from some others. I have to say that the largest number of broadcasters will be the owners of private stations that invest their money; and therefore Article 14, in one way that is not completely clear, the emitters are once again bringing into a rather delicate position. It's practically possible here only on the basis of an anonymous application, if there's a certain interest in someone in the agency, to be banned from broadcasting the program. That risk, if it adopts this law with this member, will be accepted by the National Assembly. I don't think it's an interest of the National Assembly and the interest of the government, the citizens of Serbia to approach broadcasters in a completely restrictive way, because I say once again, they still invest their money. Here it is said in the third position - if the broadcaster is not declared by the established deadline or informed the agency that the play is unfounded. You know, the emitter needs to make a statement that the play is unfounded, and it refers to the emitter; it means, and you have to say for yourself what you've been doing. That's supposed to be an estimate of someone else. (President: I warn you on time. Just one more sentence. In addition, the emitter is here in a situation to be in constant fear of a variety of discretionary powers, but rather of the intentions that individual people have or in power or agency which can be considered the same, and so we suggest that the member be deleted and that the emitters be allowed to function normally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22828	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? Yeah. ) Here you are, although you have just explained the erasure of Article 14 and the superscription above Article 14; again, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22829	Well, you've forgotten that I just missed at least another minute or two to explain to the end the position of the SRS under this article 14. Since this amendment coincides with the amendment of the SRS, it is actually identical, I will take the opportunity to prove to some additional argument the unsustainability of this Article of the 14th Law, from the aspect of the general legal principles and the particular principle of our administrative law. You see, through an analysis of this legal project, a member per member, there is a critical concept that the law is actually supposed to look like. He'd be like the reverse image in the mirror of this bill of law project of yours. You did not foresee here the possibility of decision-making in the second degree on individual solutions of the Agency's advice, i.e. the Agency as an institution, and if the agency makes a shortcut to a solution that abolishs the right of the broadcaster or is deprived of its right to broadcast the programme, it closes the box or television station. He has no more options than to fight for his rights in a long court procedure. This procedure in administrative disputes takes at least a year, I know it from experience. However, because things are naturally a matter of litigation, for some other reasons it must be slow, judicial proceedings are rare. We had these only at the time of the ban; within three days a trial was scheduled under a temporary ban, and within three days the appeal was filed to the Supreme Court. The information law is something else, he's had misdemeanors, and a mistrial is not a court case, you don't know that. What's called the State Administration Violation Court, and the state administration's authority had the two-degree principle satisfied, because the lower court for violations questioned the higher court for violations. It's even called a law enforcement body, and it's not a court case, you should know that as the chairman of the board of directors. This is only about court cases in the law of violations, there is an opportunity to immediately impose criminal sanctions, and this is now a matter of another debate whether it is justified or should be changed in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22830	I thank you, you've overstepped your time again.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22831	This is about administrative procedure, in this administrative procedure, the implementation of a first-degree solution has to be delayed until the second-degree, and there is no second-degree procedure for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22832	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22833	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you think my job is in vain, but you're making a terrible mistake, because I didn't write this for you. I'm here to expose the SRS project on broadcasting, criticizing this one of yours that's not right, you've seen it, it's good, and you see something, it's good, it's commendable. This is where I ask that in Article 16 in Section 3 the word "supply" is replaced by the words "can be obtained". What does that attitude 3 say? It is about the chapter - co-operation with state and other bodies and organisations. "The competent state authorities in drawing up the rules relating to the broadcasting area are obtaining an opinion from the agency. "What are the competent state authorities? For example, the government; the government has the right to legislative initiatives, but it can be a parliamentary group. You're pushing this parliamentary group to obtain the Agency's opinion before submitting a project to amend and supplement the law on broadcasting. That's why it's supposed to stand here - it can, it doesn't have to. Now one parliamentary group won't ask for their opinion and you say -- well, now it can't go into procedure either; and the Constitution gives us the right to be legislators on every issue. You are now denying and restricting our constitutional right. Let the vice president of the government think about this a little bit. You can't deny this the right that we have under the Constitution. We can make a proposal to pass any law in any area and no one can deny it. We have certain conditions that we have to satisfy, to be written, to be like this, to be such a text, and that is what is respected in the submission of legislative projects and in the submission of amendments. Of course, we have practice here that you refuse to put it on our agenda, but then you are violating the Rules of Procedure, when you refuse to include us in the agenda legal projects or initiatives for the replacement of the Prime Minister in general, etc. And you're still explaining -- we can't propose a government shift because we didn't choose that government and we didn't vote for it. But it is for the history of Serbian parliamentarianism a precious pearl, a black pearl, but a pearl in the true sense of the word. However, if, after the adoption of this law, the parliamentary group of the SRS, having many objections, submits a draft law on changes and additions to the broadcasting law... (President: Are you using the next three minutes? I'm using it. I'll explain it soon. We have this right under the Constitution, and you can't make any further commitments to ask the agency for an opinion. What does the agency care? You know, we can use this project of ours to ask for the Agency to be abolished, and you oblige us to seek the Agency's opinion of its own abolition. I want to show you how pointless this is and to convince you to accept at least this amendment. When the government resorts to its right of legislative initiative in this area, then it can seek the opinion of the agency and it is certainly its agency. We Serbian radicals will not, in principle. There are all your people, your people from the government of Serbia, from the government of Vojvodina, from the Serbian Parliament, from the Vojvodina Assembly, from NGOs, from churches and religious communities; all of these are your people, and we do not, in principle, want to speak to them and we do not care about their opinions, we do not hold their opinions. What would I ask them to think if I didn't appreciate their opinion? It can't be fairer. It's not like your 1993 "fair" thing, it's really fair. So, what comes out of all this? To rephrase this, that Article 16 does not state that an opinion is obtained, but that an opinion can be obtained, but the whole attitude can be completely erased, because whether someone will obtain an opinion or not if they do not have to, that's his business. It may be mandatory for the Agency to request the opinion of the authority responsible for the legislative initiative that it is obliged to give an opinion. That makes sense, and you don't think about it. You would like to deny our constitutional right of legislative initiative, not to make this legislative initiative as high as possible, as solid as possible, and as much as possible, based on the general principles of the legal order. In that case, you here, in fact, deny our fundamental constitutional right, add to a number of arguments another very important, which will immediately challenge this law before the Constitutional Court of Serbia, as soon as it is voted. Don't doubt it at all. You now know how reliable you are that you have chosen in the Constitutional Court. I deliberately didn't want to challenge them as a person, not one. I didn't even want to attend the debate, but I find it very interesting to see what their first judgments will be like. That's more interesting to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22834	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milos Nesovic, Joca Arsic and Milan Stankovic. The word is made by MP Joca Arsic, representative of the amendment applicants to Article 17.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22835	Dear fellow MPs, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, as you said, we have tabled several amendments to Article 17 of the proposed law. I will only remind you that this amendment has suggested that Article 2 be deleted, and Article 3 becomes Article 2. The member himself reads: "The agency can give the broadcaster a warning and a warning, it can, in accordance with the provisions of this law, temporarily or permanently withdraw the permit for the broadcasting of the programme. "In Article 2, which we dispute: "Extremely, broadcasters - public broadcasting service institutions which are not subject to the obligation to obtain an agency's broadcasting permit, only a warning and warning can be given. "We felt that this member as standing brings into completely different positions of the emitter. You'll say that they can't be the subject of confiscation of those who didn't even get permission, but we believe that this is how we favor that emitter who can come into a situation to break the standards of conduct and that other broadcasters are subject to temporary or permanent withdrawal of the permit. By erasing this attitude, we would even all the emitters and put them in the same position as the services they don't get, as it says here, the license. In such a way, we would also make it impossible for someone, using their privileged position so that they could not be temporarily or permanently withdrawn from their license, to constantly commit violations, and to receive only warning and nothing more. That way, like I said, the emitters aren't all in the same position. We believe that this position 2 should be deleted and thus lead to a fully equal position of all broadcasters, and that attitude 3. practically, upon acceptance of this amendment, becomes the position of the 2nd proposed law.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22836	Mr. Zarko Korać, the prime minister of the government, spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22837	I have to say, at first, this seems like a logical remark, why there is an inequality between public service and private service. But there is one big difference. If you look at those members who refer to the Serbian broadcasting institution, meaning from Article 85th and beyond, you will see that the institution is in a different position towards the agency than some private media that have private property, which will undoubtedly be in Serbia. It says here: "The organisations of Serbia's broadcasting institution are the board of directors and director general. The government of the Serbian broadcasting institution is a board of directors with nine members. Members of the Management Board shall be appointed and dismissed by the Agency." The Agency shall be able to intervene under the condition of that law if it is not fully satisfied with the way the RTS Management Board functions, and this Management Board shall elect the Director-General on the basis of the competition. In other words, there are other ways the agency can protect the interest of Serbian citizens, not the seizure of frequencies. That was just illogical. It has much greater rights than that institution; so, roughly, the thing is not that it is privileged public broadcasting service, but it is vice versa, it is subject to much more control by the agency, which does not apply to private owners, who only have to adhere to certain legal rules and can then impose a certain penalty. I hope I explained that the public broadcasting service is subject to much greater control of the agency and that is why only a warning and warning is possible here, before possibly the agency would come into a very difficult situation that it has to actually approach a change in the board of directors that does not perform its function under the law. So there are serious overruns.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22838	The word is made by MP Vojislav Seselj, president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22839	By contesting this amendment, which insists that all before the law be the same - so these public services, as you have defined them, in the field of broadcasting and private companies dealing with these affairs as broadcasters - you are losing sight of that there are also public services of local character in this regard and that they will be increasingly common. Secondly, before our law, all legal persons must be fully equal, both private and public. Any sanctions that can be imposed on private legal persons must also be possible for public entities. The area of broadcasting, or public service, as you have defined within it, in the classical science of administrative, i.e. administrative rights are called public law corporations. It was once just radio stations, and later televisions in state property, when they were only state, then water, sewerage, electricity, etc. They're all public-law corporations. They must comply with the same legal rules as private legal persons and no exception must be made, and we will dispute you before the Constitutional Court. We didn't write the amendment on purpose so we wouldn't warn you in time, and since some other party has already done so, I have to do it now, because we've been waiting for you here and I'm sure you have to get it before the Constitutional Court. Secondly, you in paragraph 3 which must also be challenged, you say "the agency can refer to a competent court or other state bodies a case against the emitter or the responsible person of the broadcaster if its actions or inaction has the characteristics of a criminal act under the law". What does this mean? By law, if it's a felony, everyone has to file a report. If it's a crime or a misdemeanor, all state authorities must. No state body should cover up a crime and a crime. A citizen doesn't have to report a crime and a crime, but he has to commit a crime. Then why can't he? Why is this third position even standing, when it implies under different laws, especially under federal criminal law. If it's already standing, then it has to stand as it says in other laws. The Agency shall, the Agency, be obliged to submit a report to the competent court or other national authority in the event of a criminal offence, offence or offence. As well as for the responsible person inside the emitter, as well as for the broadcaster himself who is usually a legal person. Therefore, you have no reason not to accept this intervention.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22840	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? Yeah. Here you go. Authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group, MP Zoran Angelkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22841	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Vice President, just what you've explained is saying that you don't need a second attitude. But let's leave the public service aside. It's not just a matter of public service, it's a civil sector. What does that mean now if we assume that religious communities have the right to broadcast a program; and now they get some sect there, I don't know what all of this means in religious communities, maybe even sects have the right to get permission. And then they set out to act offensively and to come in fact under the sanctions of Article 17. Then what does that mean? Then they can't be cut any further broadcasts. So they can still keep broadcasting the program. This is not just about Serbia's broadcasting and public service, which in itself probably has an obligation to citizens because it is funded by citizens. What about those who have no obligation, but have an obligation to some who finance them. Item 3? Well, he says a criminal trial will be launched, but they won't be deprived of their right to broadcast a program, or frequency. That's the point. And in article 18, it's hard.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22842	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, we move on to the amendment to Article 17, which was submitted by MP Velimir Simonovic. The amendmentr wants a word. The word is by MP Velimir Simonovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22843	Ladies and gentlemen, contrary to my colleague Seselj, I believe that Article 17's position should be evicted, because it gives the agency the right to move, sue, and if there is any criminal activity, etc. However, I believe that the broadcasting agency should not have the authority to initiate criminal proceedings against the media. It's the prosecutor's business as well as the damaged, the agency shouldn't do it. If by any chance this amendment of mine was accepted by the Government, then in the final version, Article 14(4) should drop point 2).
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22844	The word is made by MP Vojislav Seselj, president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22845	Basically, I agree with Professor Simonovic, only to draw attention to him that those who wrote the law in the government do not actually know the difference between the initiation of the procedure and the submission of the application. I felt that they thought the application was already in motion. That's why, all the time, explaining my commitment to erase or rephrase this, I was talking about the obligation to file a report. They certainly cannot initiate the procedure in the right sense of the word, because there are competent state authorities to initiate the procedure. In criminal proceedings, they can only go if one of them is injured, so the public prosecutor refuses to prosecute, then a private person can prosecute, protect some of his rights and interests. They don't know that, because lawyers don't write legal projects to them, they write dilettantes. When I say dilettantes, I mean nothing offensive, but people who don't understand the essence of the problem. Here, for example, in matters of punishment and measures, you prescribed penalties. One of these fines is temporary, and the other is permanent withdrawal of the permit. The agency can also be in a situation where Serbia's state television temporarily withdraws permission to broadcast, perhaps permanently. You now have a case of rogue management of state television. They don't listen to the government, they don't listen to the state, but there's one factor they listen to, and you're afraid of it, so you can't stand up to them openly. You know it better than I do. It's not a baby, the baby's a little kid. There's a much more serious factor than Baby, if you insist on calling her William Montgomery. I wouldn't tell you if you didn't insist. I hesitate to mention, and I fear that factor, let alone you. He's very powerful. It's a terrible factor. However, there is no desire here for legal projects to be written on all principles and norms of legal technique and legal norms. Item 3 is pointless, and that's where Professor Simonovic and I agree. However, we agree on another issue. The Agency is not competent to initiate the procedure, but in lay practice it is considered that the procedure was initiated as soon as the criminal application was filed. It's in the broader sense of some process initiation. In a narrow, legal sense, the procedure of this type is initiated by a self-legislative state body, which can only be a public prosecutor in criminal and legal cases, may be another competent authority when it comes to crimes and offences. They can be inspectors, it can sometimes be police, etc.; the police in court for violations, since it is also a court for the authorities of the state administration, not a judicial authority, so the police are going to file a criminal complaint against him. The filing of a criminal complaint already marks the initiation of a misdemeanour procedure. In criminal law, filing criminal charges is not the beginning of a trial. There's a public prosecutor's request for an investigation to begin a criminal trial... (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. )......................................................................................................... Or a criminal-law suit for a private person, where a private person can file a lawsuit.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22846	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by MP Velimir Simonovic. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22847	This is in Article 19, and I suggest that it be reduced rationally, and this text does not require three positions, and then this can be said this way: the Agency may impose a sentence in order to protect minors if the broadcasting programme violates the provisions of the general instructions on the protection of minors. That's enough and everything's said.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22848	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Vojislav Seselj, president of the SRS parliamentary group. (Ivan Andric, from the post: The next is your amendment. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22849	What's my next? All the amendments are mine here and I'm talking about everyone. So this is all ours, not mine and yours, all of them ours. I mean, since I have an amendment to Article 19 myself, but I'll talk about it later, that Professor Simonovic's amendment can be accepted, as he simplifies the already existing text. This text that you wrote here, that is, your government, the government of the parliamentary majority, is too complicated and unprofessional. It wasn't written by a lawyer. One of the principles of legal normation is that the text be concise, clear and understandable. You didn't respect that principle here because an expert didn't write you a legal project. In the legal norm, no word should be superfluous, let alone whole sentences. You've got extra sentences here. You have expressed in three attitudes what can be expressed in one sentence and that the whole meaning of that sentence is covered. Why don't you hire lawyers on the side if you don't have them in the government? You may have had a political need to hire non-professional people by means of a formal law school at professional functions in the government, but if you've already had to meet such political needs, then you can't trust these people to do what they're not capable of, because they're embarrassing the entire government. This is the kind of article in 19 that embarrasss the entire government. It's not the only member you embarrass for pure intricacies. This is no longer a matter of political concept or ideological approach or opposition attacking you because it disagrees with you in the development strategy, in the way of governance, etc. The opposition here is attacking you because of your intricacies, and that's something that the government should be intolerable. But we're attacking you in a row in all the legal projects. Of course, we're politically attacking you. You're being attacked by one who has much stronger arguments than yours, and therefore, normally, you don't have counterarguments. Since you have no counterarguments, you have thrown the entire SRS parliamentary group out of the session to make it easier for you to adopt these laws. You and the Rules of Procedure have been alternating it on three occasions to formalise the work of the highest legislative body, in order to turn this into a law-saving movement bar. We are trying not to allow parliament to be a driving bar for the establishment of the law, but to make parliament a place where laws will be worked, built, where laws will be formulated, where laws in mutual debate and polemicams will be reviewed in order to be as good as possible, in order for this Parliament to create laws of lasting value, not just laws that will apply during your term of office.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22850	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? The word is from MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the DOS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22851	Mrs Comic, ladies and gentlemen, since this is the amendment of my colleagues from the DOS parliamentary group, I am obliged to respond and offer an explanation that I believe will be acceptable to most MPs. It is true that the adoption of this amendment would significantly regulate Article 19 in order for it to look simpler, however, it would not then be complete in the way that the working group predicted it and in the way that we believe that such a thing must be solved. So, article 19 has three bets. In the first position, as very important, the obligation to adopt a general binding instruction by the broadcasting agency is stressed. The second point is to move forward and determine the periods during which a programme which is harmful to minors can be broadcast, but conditionally there is an interest in such a type of programme in some other parts of society. Therefore, as a critical norm, the obligation to broadcast these programmes is defined in terms that are not normally not the time in which minors can follow them. In the third position, the principle of the ban on broadcasting of programmes is established if this time endangers the physical, mental or moral development of minors. So, not if it is found that there is some elemental damage, but if it is estimated that there is a serious threat to the development of minors. These are norms established by international conventions that have not happened in Article 19 of this Law. In fact, we were obliged to define them this precisely and to determine them, with, of course, sometimes what is simple seems logical and acceptable at first glance, but that simplicity leaves the width in the interpretation that is not allowed in this particular case, because it is about international conventions that are very strict, precise and clear, sometimes extensive, but it is necessary to do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22852	Are any of the other participants in the debate answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22853	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my amendment refers to Section 2. I didn't mean to mention it, on purpose, to elaborate it when my amendment came to order. This position of 2nd literally reads: "The Agency is particularly old that programmes that can harm the physical, mental or moral development of minors are not available via radio or television, unless the time of broadcast or technical procedure ensures that minors are normally not in a position to see or listen to them." This attitude is pointless because it is too general and leaves freedom to the agency, to people who are in it, to people of living flesh and blood, to judge what is to be made available to minors and what is not needed. First, what time in which minors are not available watching television programs. I know from my experience, from my family's experience, that at a time when I sleep a lot, my kids are still watching TV, because I'm lying between 10 and 11, and they're watching longer. Look in the streets of Belgrade, you will rarely meet more serious people after midnight, mostly minors on the streets. (Kedomir Jovanovic: There is no TV on the street.) So, the kids get kicked out on the street so they don't watch TV. That's what you came up with. A moment ago, Zarko Korać said it would refer to war films. I hope you don't mind if I did what he said privately to me by throwing it out of the bench. What's a war movie kids shouldn't watch? Look, our children have experienced war, and it's pointless to forbid them from watching war movies. There are programs kids shouldn't watch. It's not in general or pornography anymore. You know, it's very hard to estimate how much eroticity is, and where pornography is. We know from previous experience, when these pornographic films were given at one or three hours after midnight, that mostly underage children were expecting that time to watch. That's why the ban here has to be more precise. They have to ban sexual bias, sodomy, pedophilia. Don't laugh, it's very serious things and ever more present in social life, which is the social crisis deeper. This is what needs to be banned, but then it needs to be clearly defined and specified - it is forbidden and it must not be shown under any conditions. There's no time when you can stop underage kids from watching some program, if they're interested in watching. They'll wait until four o'clock a.m. to watch it, even if they go to school without sleep tomorrow. Therefore, legal norms that are difficult to implement in practice, or which cannot be implemented at all, or which give too wide an interpretation option. You will find that from one end of Serbia they are reporting to the agency because of some programme where some of the most benign erotic scenes have occurred, and in some parts they will tolerate a program of scenic content, a programme where the kinks will be displayed until the end of the day, etc. Pedophilia must be absolutely forbidden. No one can convince me that it can be included in this provision of your free sexual commitment. He chose to be a pedophile! Zoophilia must be banned, and of course this kink that your government is most concerned about - homosexualism should not be shown. You can't raise a young generation like it's normal. He can't do that. It may be funny to you, but these are serious things and I'm talking about these serious things in a serious way; some of you are laughing, and I don't know why. You're showing this laugh that you're actually not at the level of the seriousness of the problem that's at stake. The point is, in the end, to point it out-- this norm needs to stay. It must be rephraseed, not in exactly the way Professor Simonović pleaded, but to say that the agency of the elderly protects a minor by the letter of other legal provisions, because minors are protected by a whole series of other legal regulations, and in particular prevent the transmission of films with sexual perversions, and perhaps indicate what this is all about. I said, "What's kinky?" The kink is homosexualism, zoophylia, cotology, or whatever else it's called, and gayism. That's three... What's so funny? Do you have any more to list? Then what are you asking? You don't know. You'll learn, slowly... Am I boring you? You'll have to hold me both this afternoon and tomorrow and every day until the SRS parliamentary group returns. You better not remove other Serbian radicals, it should be enough for you to remove me and keep the rest of them here because you were wrong to remove everyone else and keep me and now you don't know what to do with me.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22854	Six minutes and 30 seconds. People's MP, please respect the Rules of Procedure in the performances and try to say within three minutes or three plus three, that there would be no correction to this error that occurred during the work. The draft act, Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia Mr. Zarko Korac, has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22855	I'm taking the floor just because it's a very important part of the law, so there's no confusion that the promoter wasn't aware of the great social significance of this problem. I'm talking about article 19. The first part said, as MP Cedomir Jovanovic has already mentioned -- the agency will give a general binding instruction. That instruction will be very precisely elaborated, what is said here, because it is clear that in one law it cannot be done because the law would then be enormous, burdened by a large number of members and a whole series of things. But, please, when it comes to reading the law in general. I have the impression that there are MPs here who come across which member they read it and then comment on it, and there's something that's the whole law. I would remind you of article 68 that says - general programming standards, general broadcasting obligations relative to software content, and point 5) shows, I have to read it because it's obvious that I have no other choice: "they don't broadcast programs whose contents can harm children's physical, mental or moral development and youth," I think it's broad enough, "as if such programs clearly indicate, and if they broadcast them to do so only between 24 and 6 hours". I personally was inclined not to allow such a program to be broadcast at that time, but the problem is quite clear. Many private broadcasters say -- in this case, they will not be able to survive on the market, and there is a compromise made that otherwise knows other European countries. So it exists in Europe, but let me say that in certain countries there are also technical opportunities for parents to rule out some channels and contents. So there's a technical possibility that underage children can't watch that. And, let me also point 6: "they do not broadcast programs that contain pornography or whose contents highlight and support violence, drug abuse or other types of criminal behavior, as well as programs that abuse the gullibility of viewers or listeners". This refers to that flood we've had in recent years, which no one here has mentioned, which is the doorman, the drug dealer and the like, which is also a significant abuse of media and degradation, if I may say, the relationship of our society to mental and physical health. So, once again, Article 68. The bill speaks very clearly of this, plus a binding agency manual which will clearly specify which contents can be displayed. And, please, to avoid any mystification, there is one general concern in civilized countries of the world, and I hope in all countries of the world, that minors really protect themselves from that, once again, which harms physical, mental or moral development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22856	The word is made by MP Ivan Andric, rapporteur of the committee responsible for culture and information.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22857	Mrs. Komic, I must say that this amendment has caused one of the longest debates in the Committee's work. We understand the reasons, but we didn't really have in mind, in the debate, these arguments that Mr. Seselj mentioned earlier, given that these things concerning pornography and such content are mostly consensual and, in our opinion, the Committee, is contained in the position of the 3rd member of the Law, therefore, that the presentation of programs that are difficult to compromise the physical, mental or moral development of minors at any time is prohibited. However, there are a whole series of films or shows of world production that at the outset mark that they are banned from broadcasting to children under the age of 14. Since such a possibility does not exist in our law, it is our prevailing view that the agency should take that into account in its instructions. I agree there's no time, and there's been a discussion about it, when in the 21st century minors don't watch television, but you have to agree that less minors watch television at two o'clock in the morning than it is at seven o'clock in the afternoon.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22858	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. ) We move on to Article 20, to which the amendment was submitted by MP Velimir Simonovic. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here's a word from MP Velimir Simonovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22859	Ladies and gentlemen, I suggested that article 20 be deleted. It stipulates that the agency should protect copyright. There is a Serbian Agency for the Protection of Copyright, and besides how the agency could protect other people's rights. If someone whose rights are violated can do it himself, the agency has no chance of protecting other people's rights, nor should it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22860	The People's MP Ivan Andric, rapporteur of the Committee on Culture and Information, has said.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22861	The Committee has rejected this amendment unanimously, I must say, simply because, when applying the provisions of this law concerning the granting of licences and evaluations of the programme i.e. Is the program in line with the general principles, we think it's necessary. And as for information on whether the emitter has copyright to display someone's program, we think it's a civilization achievement and that it's necessary to stand in this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22862	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? Here's a word from MP Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22863	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS supports the amendment to Article 20, because we do not think that the agency can be given any additional rights that other state bodies or authorised social organisations already have in nature, which you have recently called NGOs, such as the Copyright Protection Agency. You see, in this area of copyright, only one who is professional, competent and authorized can judge. If the courts and the Copyright Agency are replaced by the possession of the broadcasting agency, the issue of the logic and purpose of the survival of these state bodies which have so far dealt with shall be raised. Secondly, the copyright sphere is a very complicated sphere, in which it is very difficult to prove a breach. We had a case of one of your fellow MPs, a university professor, who was caught in a proven plagiarism, but that question wasn't legally regulated, so in a professional sense, his head didn't hurt. The court has proven that he is a plagiarizer, but in a professional sense he had no consequences; that says the copyright law must be amended. The fact that the Copyright Act has certain shortcomings does not yet need to involve the Agency in its implementation, in the protection of its respect, as the situation in practice will only become more complicated. So prepare a new copyright law, when you have already called yourself on new legal projects, and do not involve the agency in these matters. If there are other weaknesses in the commitment of citizens to respect the Copyright Act, then these weaknesses should be corrected in the institutions of the system, in the expansion of the number of people who can intervene in this case. Because, you see, our copyright law forbids anyone to stand up for copyright, except the author whose rights are violated, and now you're spreading it. You include the agency in these issues, and the Copyright Act prevents it, because you didn't read the Copyright Act at all when you wrote this bill, and you had to. Under the Copyright Act, only one whose copyright has been violated can intervene and request the judicial protection of his copyright, and as you have conjecture this member of the law, anyone can do so. Because according to this member of the law, the agency makes sure that all broadcasters apply regulations. There is in practice a silent approval of copyright violations. Sometimes the author is not interested in respecting his own copyrights, and there is a reverse case - when someone rises up to defend copyrights that still exist in a moral sense rather than material law. When more than 30 years have passed since the author's death, then his work can be printed or broadcast, the family has no right to compensation, but no one can change what he created.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22864	The word is from MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the DOS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22865	Dear Mrs. Comic, ladies and gentlemen, we first need to see what these measures are, or what the agency can do. They have been identified as Article 17, a warning and a warning is being discussed. So that's the law establishing the law of the agency. No one's talking about criminal proceedings, criminal prosecution, so all those powers that actually constitute judicial authority. I cannot understand at all what is said here, because such a stream of sentences really completely removes every meaning in this amendment, which is also proposed in the commentary of that amendment. So I'm going to try to explain to you that piracy is a form of illicit behavior, which normally doesn't have to be criminally sanctioned, unless the other side appears, which triggers the process. At the same time, we are obliged by numerous international conventions to prevent such a thing. Is the form of piracy the broadcasting of a school program, for which you have no copyright, whether it is the right of someone who has these copyrights to refrain from committing criminal proceedings, in a situation where he does not consider it to be an ideal opportunity for him to highlight criminal responsibility and determine some sanctions. I remind you that for a few years, we had an emitter, first of all a film program, a constant violation of that copyright, and that no one was moving, we were opening the issue of sanctions. Finally, this ended in court disputes, which were still current, but also in a measure taken by some of the broadcasters of these programmes, compensation and payment of those financial assets that were equivalent to the damage suffered by copyright owners. So this is about a warning and a warning. These are agency rights and those rights must be used in order not to create any major damage, which would, for example, stop us in this process of returning to the World Trade Organisation. No matter what no one complains, no matter what they may not make an official complaint, we are obliged to respond by warning and warning, because the damage will be much greater than the damage suffered by the emitter himself - the entire state. That's what this is about. No takeover of the jurisdiction of the courts, the initiation of criminal proceedings and all that is mentioned here. [[Vojislav Seselj seeks the right to reply.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22866	You have no right to a replica. Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Vojislav Seselj proposed to one amendment to amend the title of the supertitle above Articles 21 and 21. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There's a word from MP Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22867	I ask that the title, which now reads, be changed: "To contain hate speech," because what is hate speech, that is neither science nor theory has yet defined, has not been clarified. The hate speech is a matter of emotion, but I ask that the title be "Protect freedom and the rights of man and citizen." That's what our constitution says. What you deem a hate speech in part is subject to appropriate constitutional provisions. Secondly, this member of yours was the subject of a principle debate yesterday, the basic things I would not repeat here, but I am asking instead of saying: "The agency is old that broadcasting programs do not contain information that encourages discrimination, hatred or violence against a person or a group of persons because of their different political commitment or because of their belonging or non-distribution to any race, religion, nation, ethnic group, gender or sexual commitment", that it says: "The agency is trying not to destroy the freedoms and rights of the citizens, regardless of race, gender, birth, language, nationality, religion, political or other creed, education, social origin, property or any personal property." What does this "personal property" mean? And in the case of homosexuality, it's a private matter of every man, until his behavior penetrates the area of some other legal norms. But you can't consider discrimination if it's impossible for a person of perverse behavior to teach in elementary and high school. Would one of you send your kids to class where a teacher who publicly declares himself a homosexual? If anyone would send, answer that question. I don't believe it, not even in high school. At university, students are all adult, it's a private matter of every man, but propagating perversion cannot be tolerated by law. On the other hand, if it is said in a negative way about this kinkyness, if people are invited, who are at risk of this bias, to take measures to cure themselves, in easier cases, psychotherapy is sufficient, and in difficult cases they can undergo surgery. Then it can't be discrimination, nor can their condition be a matter of determination. Someone who's sick in that sense is not free to define himself one way or another. Only one who can be defined for one thing or another, so it's defined for one of them, was free to define. Someone who has already been predetermined, who has been sick, is forced by force to be himself; and what is not biologically correct and that God did not create him to be, it cannot be a matter of determination and do not define us as a definition.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22868	People's MP, will you use three more minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22869	I'm moving on. That is, therefore, the essence of this attitude. Secondly, we have a second position here that says: "The actions of the broadcaster against the prohibitions of Article 1 of this article are the basis for expressing the intended measures by the agency, regardless of the other legal means available to the damaged". You see, someone can say, in some local television program -- that and that elementary school teacher are a proven homosexual, and they present evidence, and the agency can, by the letter of this law, prohibit that local television from broadcasting, temporarily or permanently. Earlier, Cedomir Jovanovic spoke about article 17 and only two measures cited two penalties imposed by the agency. He cited a warning and a warning. He forgot to say - temporary and permanent withdrawal of the program's broadcasting license. Why did he forget to say that when it came to Article 20, about copyright? You see, you gave the agency the right that when they found out that someone was broadcasting someone else's film, someone else's show, without the authors' interventions, they immediately banned that broadcast program. He can ask for paper, no paper. You know, in the area of copyright, oral bargaining is possible. You want to broadcast this show of mine? I will. How many such cases are there in practice for one television to produce a show and share other televisions and no one among them makes broadcasting contracts, no one, because they work on a trust basis. They exchange the program that way. Until the problem arises, until the author asks for the protection of his rights, it is pointless for someone else to become protected in this way. I'm about to change the Law of Copyright, so that everyone can report to plagiarists, that everyone can intervene when someone else's show shows up as their own, when someone else's book presents it as their own. In the case of plagiarists, therefore, that everyone can initiate the procedure, that they can file a report, that everyone can intervene. But where it comes to broadcasting, it's the same as printing. You know, rare are scientific journals where a man goes and submits his work for publication, so the editorial invites him to sign a publishing contract.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22870	Six minutes and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22871	There's no scientific journal, as far as I know; maybe it exists somewhere. Don't even introduce here what's pointless, which only complicates life in practice.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22872	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) We move on to Article 21 on which the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Toma Busetic, Joca Arsic, Milos Nesovic and Sreten Mitrovic. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Joca Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22873	Dear fellow MPs, on behalf of the MPs' group, Toma Busetic, Milos Nesovic, Sreten Mitrovic and I have submitted an amendment to Article 21 of the proposed law, and that in Article 21 after that, in article 1 behind the word "half" the point is deleted, and the rest of the text is deleted by the end of the sentence. This amendment is subject to the harmonisation of Article 21(1) with the solution provided for in Article 8(1) of point (9). So it is the harmonisation of this Article with the previously submitted amendment, as I said, to Article 8(9). We believe that this part of the text is too much and that it needs to be deleted and that its stay would be counterproductive, regardless of possible objections to this group and our MP group that we are intolerant in this regard. We think that, in the attitude of the 1st term, this kind of tolerance is included, because one general tolerance is provided, and there is no need to particularly apostrophe with this question. He had a different interpretation, and I understand that we are here talking about countries where this is morally possible, such as Denmark, the Netherlands or others, but we are not yet Western Europe and we cannot legally become it, but we need a certain flow of time. What makes one nation and what normally characterizes it as a people, given tradition, education and historical facts, cannot be erased only by accepting everything that is safe and in these countries that I have spoken of progressively and advancedly; but many things from the West cannot still be accepted as morally correct, given the tradition and way of life and what our people and our climate characterized. I therefore believe that this amendment of ours should be accepted; as I said, the previous solution in this point 1 is already understood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22874	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? Yeah. ) The word is held by MP Vojislav Seselj, president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22875	On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I support this amendment to drop the sex definition clause, but I do not accept the explanation of the amendments, because there is no moral question here. So you can't say for a man who's gay, a zoophile or a pedophile he's immoral. It's a matter of depravity, it's a matter of disease. It had to be a relationship between humans, not a man and an animal. He who is a zoophile, he has genuine love, he feels for an unfortunate animal, but he needs to be cured of it. That's the point. So something that is a serious disease, a disease that affects an individual person above all, cannot be called an infectious disease. It is not for one who suffers from this disease to be discriminated against until he commits a criminal act, not to be persecuted, physically harassed; not only should he not, but it should be prohibited if he appears in society and severely punished, as we would punish a man who physically harasses cancer patients or heart patients etc. So, one who physically persecutes someone who is sick should succumb to legal sanctions, but that disease must not be presented to the public as a sexual commitment. Especially should not be done by educators, people who raise children. You can't let a man enter an elementary school, a high school, a college and say, "Will you be heterosexuals or homosexuals?" That's the thing of your free sexual orientation. That's what you're saying with this law, that it's a sexual commitment, that you wrote it here, and I've been convincing you for two days that this law has to be thrown out, because it's not a matter of free sexual commitment, it's a matter of disease. You can't connect me to those who beat homosexuals on the streets. I would never do that, and I condemn those actions. But you can't make me accept the view that this is a free sexual definition, when it's not a matter of determination. So we need to find a formula that will be appropriate, serious, scientific and in accordance with the principles of our legal system. It's something you mostly keep quiet about, you like to comment on the halls, but to your government, which is already going through several legal projects, you haven't, at least publicly, resented it yet. Are you on the run, you MPs, with the government? I want you to make a public statement of that gap, so at least support the amendments that demand that it be thrown out of this law. Show me you're distancing. The government is obviously running a different policy than you, the congregation majority. You're telling me all of this, that I'm absolutely right, that you support this amendment, but all of you keep your mouth shut about it and no one's going to make a public statement.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22876	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Vojislav Seselj. Will you use both of your time? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22877	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in article 22, I ask that the agency have 15 members instead of nine, and why? Once you've formed that agency, it should be a body that will consist of a number of people. In the first draft of the law, you proposed to be 15, and then you gave up. I don't understand why you gave up. I have seen through the media that there has been a conflict between individual DOS members, on this issue. I'm trying to get into your motive now. Were you afraid if there were a number of members, if 15 of them, that there was a greater danger that some of them would turn aside and that they would counter the government's views, which she imagined through the Agency's advice to implement her policy, but not to be in the first place and to be fenced against any criticism from that policy. It's a fundamental suspicion that every normal man is born immediately. It is to be expected that you have worked on this legislative project for a long time and have not thoughtlessly submitted it to parliament for a decision. You filed the text, it was scheduled for a session, and that text contained - 15 members. Among those 15 members, as much as my memory serves, there were no representatives of the executive government. Is that right, Mr. Korach? Afterwards, you've put in representatives of the executive government. So you're afraid of overtrust in people who come from the side, who aren't directly in the executive authorities. What has affected you? What made you so afraid? In your exposé, you didn't explain it in detail, and we expected you to explain it to us, to be the most reticent at the explanation of the difference between this text and the one that preceded it, just a few days earlier, so it was withdrawn from the congregation procedure. What happened between you two to give up? If there are a number of people and if they really are respected people - I doubt in advance that they will really be respected people and people out of honor, dignity, face, honesty, etc., because if you really intend to choose such people in the advice of this agency, you would choose people in other state institutions as well. That's what I'm drawing from the conclusion that you're just kidding, that you're not serious. But, let's not prejudge, we'll see when those people's names come up on whom you count and who you thought people trusted. We'll know in advance what the software concept and the broadcasting development strategy will be, as soon as we see those names. It's obvious that someone on the side of this is making you feel pressured. On the first day of the principle debate (I have another three minutes, don't worry about anything) you kept saying - The Council of Europe is looking for, Europe is looking for, Europe wants, Europe insists, Europe is pushing us, etc. What you haven't given us here is a comparative review of the solutions that exist in the practice of the most developed European countries, France, Italy, Germany and the UK, enough to see who manages national television there, how and how the sphere of broadcasting is managed at all. Let's see where your deviations are in relation to what their practice is and why our deviations appear, very important, very serious deviations, because these institutions you foresee as authorized to propose their representatives to the agency's advice usually in these countries, which I mentioned, are not identical. There's someone else doing it in a different way. There are great differences between Italy, France, Great Britain and Germany in this regard. We might as well get into those differences. Until a few years ago, I don't know what the situation is today, until three years ago Austria had no private television at all. I guess you knew that. I don't know if there is today, it's a question. It's such a sensitive sphere, it's such a serious sphere, so many of these countries are aware of the dangers that society exposes itself to if it allows manipulation of the means of broadcasting. Secondly, you're stuck here insisting on copyright protection, where authors themselves don't try to protect their rights. You know that for a time there was a real game for all the local televisions to re-play foreign intelligence radio programs -- the "Glass of America", "Dece Vele", BBC, "Transnational", "Free Europe", etc. Why never did the Voice of America, the Deutsche Great, the BBC, the Transnational and Free Europe ask for the protection of their copyrights, but even paid some to re-emitting their program? It was essential to expect them to seek immediate protection of copyright. Someone here replays "The Voice of America", right now the Americans come running to sue you like they sue you when you re-emission American movies and you re-emission their television programs unauthorized, so let's see what's behind it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22878	The word is made by Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Zarko Korac, and by MP Zoran Angelkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22879	Although I was just talking in the exposé yesterday about who would be elected, although there were enough comments, given the great importance of this issue, I will say once more: that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, are proposing an executive AP Vojvodina to be on the agency's advice does not mean that these are people representing these institutions. I must remind you that it says in Article 26: "The members of the council are not on the advice of the authorities or organisations that have proposed them," that is, of course, true to those others, "but they do their duty on their own, according to their own knowledge and conscience, according to this law." Article 25 says who cannot be a member of the council, very explicitly: federal MPs, MPs, elected and appointed persons, their relatives, party officials. Finally, Article 24 says - a person who enjoys the reputation of prominent media expert, advertising expert or prominent expert in areas of importance for the work of the agency is proposed for a member of the council. Plus, these institutions propose two candidates, and the Assembly chooses one. So the one who suggests is not even sure which one of them, two or two will be elected. So there are a lot of mechanisms that are logically the only ones we can have, to make sure that these people are truly independent, because of the importance of the work they're going to do -- means, assigning the broadcasting license, but also the control, well, as we've seen, and the possibility of punishment. Therefore, I pray that this confusion is not created that those who propose these institutions are someone they control, or are from these institutions. They're just proposals, and the people who are proposed are, as you can see from these three members that I've listed, media experts, nothing to do with politics in any way, in any way, with Parliament, and thirdly, they're explicitly given the right to represent themselves. Of course, we can criticize any solution. So any solution can be criticized to the will. There's been a huge effort here to find some way to ensure the independence of these people. In other words, we've thought very much about this and the legislators of this law in all the variations have been in doubt how to achieve it. This is a solution that is mostly applied in a large number of countries, although, of course, there are no unique solutions in Europe. It is no secret anywhere that different European countries have different solutions, but what everyone has is that this area is regulated by independent people who depend neither on politics nor on government, nor on parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22880	The word is from MP Zoran Angelkovic, the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22881	This member is extremely important to the next members on the Agency's advice. First, as far as they're independent individuals: if so, even if this is what we've heard now, then it would be logical that what they're proposing, only that there should be 50%, here which they propose to the 23rd member responsible for proposing a member of the agency's council, should be the only candidate. This is not how the organisations that propose who will be decide, but rather the parliamentary majority. Thus, she is already making a deal ahead of the two for one who will be from the organization and is agreeing to support him in order to have the opportunity to influence later on in the work of the council. That's one thing. Secondly, that story about being non-political people; you know, it's impossible for a serious intellectual to be completely apolitical. It's not a question of that. Is it a dispute if they leave the institutions where they worked until then, are they the only jobs they do at the agency? Will they continue to work in the religious community, and the church can propose someone outside the religious community, and that's where I agree, but will they continue to work there or will they only work at the agency? Are they materially independent of the agency or institution that proposed them? Secondly, Article 22 lists who can be part of the council: media experts, advertising experts, lawyers and economists, telecommunications engineers and others. Of course, in Article 24 you will say who you can suggest, and now it lists: the reputation of prominent media expert, advertising expert or prominent expert in areas of importance for the work of the agency. It is not further mentioned when it comes to lawyers, economists, telecommunications and engineers. What happens if everyone here is proposed from one profession? What happens if only lawyers or economists are proposed? Whether or not we will get a narrow professional body that will not be able to make the whole, as a counsel that has authority, also considers making the right decision. For these reasons, I think it was smarter than 15; even in Croatia there are 23 members of the council; 25, well, 23, 25, however, be 35. What I'm saying is that there are few nine members of the council for such a serious obligation under this law. Therefore, if an appropriate change is already being made, then the number 15 should be maintained and, for these reasons, the possibility of all these structures being represented in the council itself, and even even if they are, in some way, predetermined which structures and which of the promoters can from which domain propose an appropriate expert. For example, the National Assembly should propose a telecommunications engineer, and the Broadcasting Association should propose advertising experts, etc. Otherwise, it can come to this that the advice is completely deviated in one direction and that there is no possibility that we can observe the whole of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22882	The word is from MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the DOS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22883	Mrs. Komic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is good to do, it is good to appreciate the ex-post mind, especially if it comes through those audits. So all I'm going to do is quote an 11th law that has so far been regulated in the field of broadcasting. The member said: "The government of the Republic of Serbia has appointed a commission, is considering requirements for the use of radio frequencies and is proposing decisions on their use, that is to say, of confiscation or withdrawal. The closer conditions for performing professional tasks for this commission are determined by a decision on its education." There is no independence in the existing solution. Let's move on, see if there's a kind of independence that's very important, and that's financial independence. If he is politically independent; let's say that we take one of the amendments that exists and that two-thirds of the councils make up people who are proposed by NGOs, the civil sector, and one-third of those that we propose. The Assembly and the executive bodies of the Government and the Region Council, i.e. the Republic Government. If there is no financial independence, this first presumed independence is pointless. Article 34 established the form of funding of the agency and, among other things, the form of funding of members of the Council of the Broadcasting Agency of the Republic of Serbia. Through the financial independence provided for in Article 34, the type of independence resulting from existential dependence has been provided and fully guaranteed. If you're financially dependent on the Republic government, then of course you're dependent in a practical sense, because you can't survive without financial and material help. That is why we are also coming to the subject of the subscription, because by establishing this form of public service financing we have established existential independence, material independence, which is the prerequisite of any other. As for members of the council, there are no rules. It is true that Croatia is 25, and until recently it was 9, some countries have 5 and others have 40. It's the result of an internal relationship. We had one proposal that had long been in circulation, of 15 members of the council. But when you look at who the structures are to propose candidates, then you will see that it is also too complicated a procedure for the current circumstances. So it's a human rights organisation, and we don't have a criterion by which we can determine whether a more similar organisation dealing with the protection of human rights and the patriotic alliance, on the one hand, or the Belgrade Circle of the Centre for Human Rights, the Helsinki Committee, the Humanitarian Law Fund, on the other hand. This forest agency of NGOs, attitudes, organizations that exist, led us to the idea of reducing the number of NGOs in the first step and thus reducing the area for additional dilemmas that would only challenge efficient work and dynamics, which we insist on, within the council itself. So there's a balance. Four candidates are proposing representatives of the government, and logically they are representatives of the parliamentary majority here in parliament, because it would be illusory to assure you now that this is not the case. I also think that after a year and a half there is no reason for so much mistrust that exists at this time in the work of critics of this solution, because I am absolutely confident, the clarity of the arguments today makes the administration of RTS... (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. ....................................................................................................... in which there are no political representatives, that the Management Board led an independent editorial policy, that there were directors and editors of the editor-in-chief through a procedure which was not disputed, that during the assembly debate, it was heard that the state television had been ripped out of the government's wing, that they were now doing what they wanted, etc. Balanced positions, the non-governmental sector, representatives of the state and the ninth member through the agreement and the representatives proposed there by both the state and the NGO, and in advance they cannot be considered representatives of the proposings, but rather people who will implement this law in the most concrete way. Be assured that it is very important for us as legislators that this law works.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22884	Are any of the other participants in the debate answering for a word? Yeah. ) The word is held by MP Zoran Ćirkovic, deputy president of the DOS-NS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22885	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't know how this business is with the Rules of Procedure, but I would simply suggest that the Government intervene on this article. This is why, in the original text, there were 15 institutions, as Comrade Chad said, structure. Of those 15, it went down to nine. (That's what we old anti-communists have in the jargon, and that's how it is. Someone would have thought six were expelled, but it wasn’t six, but four were expelled. Some of them are shrinked; for example, the original text said that some three NGOs, with different sectors and so on, were eventually summed up; probably the Patriotic Union is not covered there, so there are no concerns on that side. So four were thrown out, and out of those four were the unions, not the beam. Serbia's Chamber of Commerce has been expelled, not a beam. Serbia's Supreme Court was also expelled, not a beam. But she was thrown out to Sana, which is a beam and it is a shame. SANU had to come together, summed up with the rectors; if that is the top of our national mind, then there is no need to eliminate the Serbian Academy of Sciences and put the rectors on. What? (Employer Seselj, from the post: The government cannot choose academics. Is that right? Okay. Shecky's, like, always mean. So, once again, I suggest that the government doesn't throw out the SANA. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22886	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? You have the right to a replica. The right to replicate the presentation of MP Zoran Cirkovic, MP Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22887	It's obvious Mr. Zirkovic didn't get me very well. I agree with him that SANU in this concept of broadcasting law should necessarily have the opportunity to propose candidates for the composition of the agency's council. Why is it not similar to the Serbian Academy of Science and Arts to the Serbian Government, and why does the Serbian government avoid the Academy? The Serbian government controls all these institutions. Just before, Cedomir Jovanovic said the agency was independent, he spoke of independence and independence in terms of funding. But with us, as Chad said, "en-ji-o" (NGO), NGOs are not independent because they are funded by the government. 500 million dinars were allocated in the budget for them. I am convinced that only those NGOs you give money to will participate in proposing members of the agency's council. The government can run human policy anywhere around here except at the Academy of Science. There was a time when in the Academy of Science the communist regime could accomplish something, to declare Tito and Cardell honorary members, but in the past 12 years, the Academy of Science has had only one moral fall. That's when she elected academic Dragoslav Avramovic, after he became governor of the NBJ. She hadn't noticed his sciences before, and when he became governor, then six months later, he became an academic. Bojic is not an academic, nor is Mira Markovic an academic, not a Serbian academic. You have in your ranks academics Bogoljub Karic and his television, but these are already other academics. I'm not going into those academys and academics. This is about the Serbian Academy of Science and Arts. In these 12 years, the Serbian Academy has not had the moral fall of this species, except in the case of Dragoslav Avramovic. Because you can't influence who will be elected academics, as a correspondent, as a regular member, you can't influence who will be president of the Academy, vice president, secretary, the Academy is not suitable for you, because its possible representative would not be suitable for manipulation.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22888	MP Cedomir Jovanovic, the basis for the replica, is the mention in the presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22889	Mrs. Comic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are obliged to make a brief comment so that we don't get something in our mouths right now that certainly none of us have said. If this argument were to apply that we cannot influence the election of the president of the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts, so we do not propose to the Academy as an authorised candidate for the republican council of broadcasting agencies, then it would mean that we can influence the choice of patriarchs and that we can do a lot more, which is total nonsense and we should not waste time on that. Why does the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts in this reduced number not have the status it had in the previous one? Because it is an institution where all those credible representatives who otherwise appear in these other places are gathered. It's true, and it's in NGOs. You have prominent academics who are members of NGOs from the legal sector. Is the Episcopal Forest Sava timely accepted as an academic? Yes, it is. Why do you deny the right of another representative of the religious community to be an academic of the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts tomorrow? It's not a passing institution, it's an institution where a certain status is verified and which, according to its function, should not have been found in the previous solution. The status of academics is not a status arising from that function. These are people who are engaged in a number of other structures. We have an academic named Palavestro, who is a member of the Writer's Association. Does the Writer's Association lose its status through what is provided for in the existing solution? Don't lose. Is he losing the PEN center? Don't lose. So it's a wide range of possibilities. Nothing has been demoted by the Academy, and it is the most common abuse of an institution that has been abused for the past 10 or 12 years, which is why it is on the margins of social events, not because of our initiatives.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22890	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. I'm setting a break to 15.00 hours. The afternoon section continues with the debate on Article 23, on which the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. [[after breaks]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the work of today's session in the afternoon. Please confirm the quorum. Here you go. I find that we have a quorum and that we can continue the discussion in detail. National MP Vojislav Seselj submitted to the 23rd amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here's a word from MP Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22892	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a lot has already been said about this Article 23 and the structure of the Agency's council, the way members are elected. In my amendment, I propose that members of the council be elected by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on a proposal from parliamentary groups formed in the National Assembly. What does that mean? This means that the principle of impartiality and objectivity of the work of the Agency's advice and the sustainability of the choice of its members must be ensured. You have so subjectively prescribed the selection of members of the agency's council that this choice can only last while you are in power. As soon as you leave the government, no one will seriously think about being representatives of NGOs, for example, or churches and religious communities, at least until they regulate the legal position of religious communities, or some associations, or members of the executive government. If the Agency's advice corresponds to the structure of the National Assembly, then it's kind of like enthroning a permanent principle that should be held by those who come to power after you. You now have, at least on paper, two-thirds of the MPs in the National Assembly. You'd have an impact on the selection of two-thirds of the agency's board. I guess that should be enough for you, but for you to know, of course, when you change power, that relationship power changes. Those who at one point have a majority are forced to think about what will happen when they lose that majority. There are parties here who thought they'd never lose power, and now they regret not taking timely steps to protect their position when they're in the position of the opposition. The Socialists created John the Glamocan, and now God punished them, so you created the new John Glamocan in the image of Branislav Ivković. It's just like this, maybe a little caricature, to show what it all leads to, if in time it's not thinking about principle and consistency. In this case, of course, if the Agency's advice expresses the relationship of forces in the National Assembly and its sessions will have a certain kind of liveliness, with opposing attitudes. And there will be overvotes, but that overvote will be the expression of democracy. Where the Latvian concept is applied, or Muslim, stale, corporate, there is no democracy there. (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. Will you continue? I'll keep going. That's where democracy is played. Why was Dimitri Ljotic an opponent of democracy? Because he could never win more than one percent of the vote in the election. Mussolini couldn't win the election. Hitler didn't win either. He entered the coalition government, so in an extra-institutional way, he compensated for what was missing. The autocratic methods are resorted to by those who are aware that they can never win the election, or who happened to win once, so they know that this will never happen again, as your coalition is aware of. That's why you're an alien, non-democratic concept here. You're introducing the standing representatives into one body of the state administration. It's the government's authority. In this case, one more thing is important. If political parties, or their parliamentary groups, propose an appropriate number of council members proportionate to their strength, they can commit themselves to making these people who will be run by prominent experts, intellectuals, scientists, artists, not being MPs, ministers, members of the leadership of political parties. And then it can be achieved; only then is there a dispersion of trust. It's not just one kind of people that you like, it's different people, it's different orientations, ideological orientations, scientific habitats, different professions, etc. I'm convinced that from the SRS, probably the opposition in general, we won't trust any of the men you choose for this agency's advice. They need to know in advance that we're going to challenge them from that aspect. They need to know in advance, if there is an honorable among them, that their lives will be unbearable. For everything that's going on in the media sphere, in the sphere of broadcasting, we will individually refer to them. How long will they last? Many, even at a time when the Socialists themselves appointed members of the board of directors of state television, did not last until the end, resigned. Although they were (President: Six minutes 30 seconds) weighed by the ruling party couldn't take some self-will from time to time, so they abandoned it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22893	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? There is a word from MP Ivan Andric, the rapporteur of the board of directors.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22894	This is certainly the key point of this law. At this point, the law breaks. The choice of council members is the essence of this law, and that is exactly the difference that makes us completely different from the previous regime. So, I must say first of all, the Committee has rejected this amendment, but simply we watch in the Assembly as the opposition votes against government proposals. It often has something to do with the truth. Not often. It's simply the work of the opposition. But here today, to say the least, I'm showing understanding, so this is the first time that Mr. Seselj has defended his heart. So they believe that the media must be dependent on politicians, and that is the fundamental difference between us and them. So, as early as October 6th, it became impossible for the RTS Management Board to have the Minister of Information, whether his last name was Vucic or Korac or Lecic. It became impossible for the Deputy Prime Minister, vice president of one of the ruling parties to sit there, so he was called Jovanovic or Nikolic or whatever. When we adopt this law today, or in the voting day, it will become impossible for the government to choose the RTS Management Board, and that is the difference between us and them. All that Mr. Seselj was saying, I understand him, but I'm sure most of this assembly is the basic reason why this amendment of his will refuse. Thank you. [[Employer Seselj requests the right to reply.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22895	What about the basis for the replica? (Employer Seselj, from the scene: So twice he commented on my presentation, showing that he did not understand it. ) Regardless of the discretionary right of the chairman to allow a replica, or not, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22896	Well, now you'll know for sure, I believe in your intelligence. Where you insist, as a result of our disagreement, there is no disagreement. We Serbian radicals do not ask that those people we would propose to the agency's council to be our ministers, our MPs or members of the party's leadership. Please, let me get this straight to the end, I only have two minutes, which is why, otherwise I don't mind, I like it, because then the discussion is more interesting. [[Zagor in the O.R.]] So we don't insist on it. The ones we propose don't even have to be members of our party, but it's important that they be people we trust. And now you claim that the agency's council will be completely independent of politicians. It is impossible in a civilized and democratic world, because in a civilized and democratic world everything is dependent on politics and even rain when it rains. It's all about politics. Since there's been a civilization, man is a political animal, so Aristotle defined him, and you can't by decree change it. So don't even assume that you can convince us that something will be independent of politics. In which our two concepts differ diametrically - in that we are aware of the inability to avoid dependence on politics, so we ask that we democratisation here, to introduce the principle of pluralism, and you hide this addiction by pretending that the people who enter the council are not dependent on our will and that only your people will be on that council, and even the priests who are elected, and they will be yours.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22897	The word is from MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the DOS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22898	Dear Mrs Comic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I think that during the debate on this amendment two very important concepts are mentioned, namely two topics which are essentially, and this fundamental difference is between us as the legislator of this law and those who challenge this law. It's a matter of trust and policy as a top standard. There is an open dilemma here whether parliament can trust any other institution or individual of this country, except for itself, that is, to go one step further, it would actually mean that we cannot trust the religious communities and their representative, or their candidate, that we cannot trust the university, that we cannot trust minority and national communities, that we cannot trust a whole series of NGOs (I repeat, these are some very important organizations such as the Association of Writers of Serbia, the Association of Film Workers, the Association of Journalists, or NUNS), that we cannot trust anyone but ourselves. If the whole world by definition of the previous government was against us, if all but the authorities were against it, we are not obliged to follow that policy of that kind of exclusion; we are very happy to trust everyone, until the situation in which this trust is not misused, and we are very happy to extend that flow of freedom and share that right with everyone for whom we can assess, on the basis of the rights that they have at this point, that they are competent to fulfil and the obligation that follows every kind of freedom in a democratic society. So we have confidence in the university and the representatives of the university, because a parliament that has no confidence in the university has no reason to exist. As far as these other policy categories are concerned as top standards, that's true; but in civilised societies, that's why policy limits itself, so it can be divided into party politics, but it can also be cultural policy, education policy, the media field, so conscious media policy is free of party disciplines, and that's what we're doing here. We do not want to be the authority that will "return the slaughter" and make Serbia a society in which we lived until October 5th. That would be so, although perhaps the essential consequences at first would not be so. The way of thinking has led us to these tragic consequences, not the subsequent forms that this way of thinking has allowed. This is why parliament can verify the valid representatives of those professional organisations, i.e. those NGOs, or those communities that we consider to be credible at the moment for this kind of activity, which are without doubt both universities and religious communities, and NGOs, and professional associations that exist in our society. Otherwise, if we are enough for ourselves, I suggest we close Parliament, end all the laws and act the way we think about it every day, because we've been doing it for the past 10 years. The laws weren't important to us, and when we felt we needed some explanation, we brought 30-40 a day. That's not a good way to go. The media must be free of party policies, which certainly does not mean that they will be outside politics, but some others, because by character politics can differ. It's a modern society to which we seek.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22899	The word is made by Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Zarko Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22900	Madam Vice President, honourable MPs, I apologize for taking away your time again, but I would ask you to say what I think here after all. I, by the way, don't think that this is the only thing that matters in this law and it would be a mistake not to see this law as a whole, but certainly, this law is our great attempt, not during the time that we are in power and while we have a congregation majority, but a single attempt to see Serbia's future, that the electronic media in terms of granting broadcasting permits and in terms of controlling the matter of politics and surrender, as far as possible, to people, and it is ensured by those reasonable mechanisms that we have, to be impartial and to work according to their conscience, by law, and by thirdly, by the knowledge of telecommunications. I'd like to say this -- actually, there's a lot of controversy here in what's being exposed. First, it has been disputed here that one suggests that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, namely, two people will be proposed by this assembly, but what is being missed here is that the final court on the members of the agency has a National Assembly. We have adopted one amendment on the Committee, and I hope that the Assembly will adopt it, where we have specified procedures will happen if the Assembly does not vote on someone proposed by one of these institutions. So, university rectors in the Republic of Serbia will, through agreement, propose two candidates, but you, MPs, will decide who they are. You will have the opportunity to talk about them, you will have the opportunity to express your opinion of their professional abilities and independence, to vote for it. Therefore, we cannot go into contradictions, say that the Assembly here is in some way detronized, and at the same time miss to see in this law that the final word in the selection of members of the Agency's council has the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but not that it, in one case alone, proposes all this; other institutions suggest. Dear People's MPs, this is a jury, these nine people speak for Serbia. So, the proposals are universities, churches, NGOs, media organisations, will be representatives from Kosovo. It's kind of a jury, it's the best that you can offer at this point as a solution to this very difficult problem of great authority, which has the advice of a broadcasting agency. In other words, once again, the final word for this is the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and let us not once make fun of the Assembly in which we are sitting, and for the second time consider it to be the body that it proposes; we must define ourselves. Personally, I believe that this solution is correct and that the National Assembly as an expression of national will, sovereign, should have the final word whether these people are similar to doing this work of enormous moral and state importance.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22901	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? Yeah. ) The word has an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group, MP Zoran Angelkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22902	Ladies and gentlemen, and logically, and it is necessary for the Republic Assembly to have the final word in deciding on all this. However, we cannot put in an unequal position and claim exactly the opposite, that the more important representatives of the peoples and citizens of Serbia and the better conscience of Serbian citizens are only non-governmental organisations or the association of broadcasting, public enterprises, or churches and religious communities, rather than representatives of citizens, and representatives of citizens are representatives of political parties. Well, citizens vote for political parties. Therefore, it is not disputed here that representatives give associations, some NGOs, it is not disputed that the churches and religious communities give, it is not disputed either, it is disputed that there are no of these five, more specifically the four who are elected here, there is no proportion; why should not the right representatives of Serbian citizens be elected through the Serbian Parliament; they must not be, they may not meet those conditions which they cannot represent from Article 25. That's not controversial. What's incompatible? But to be of these political parties, too. Then, of course, we would return to that previous member where he is 15 members, then we could create that parity and that relationship where the citizens of Serbia would also be satisfied through their national representatives or NGOs. Or, this thing from Kosovo and Metohija -- why the advice to choose? They're not half-wits in Kosovo that they can't organize, choose. Well, let them choose Serbs from Kosovo through NGOs. Why NGOs in central Serbia should have the right to agree on whom to propose and NGOs in Kosovo and Metohija cannot. Some NGOs in Kosovo and Metohija suggest, but probably have no influence on these NGOs. Since you have no influence on these NGOs, then you are not giving them the right, but that advice suggests; a two-one-chosen assembly is not a problem, but is always a proposing problem. It's always a problem if there's an impact on the promoter, and then, as in the advice of the Faculty of Law, we'll probably have the Wolf as the representative of NGOs to participate here. Let's not let some non-governmental organisations that are para-state organisations, not only because of the financial situation, but also because of the membership of non-governmental organisations in political parties in power, present now as the only conscience of Serbian citizens, and that we believe that the representatives of political organisations and parties elected by citizens are not the real representatives of Serbian citizens. That is why it is not disputed here that NGOs have representatives, but it is disputed that through this it is trying to rule completely and that the parliamentary majority has all nine members in their hands.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22903	People's MP Vojislav Seselj is looking for a replica; you have no basis for replication, you did not have the right basis in the previous case. I said it was fragile, but in our presentation, which we can look at in the stenogram, you confirmed that MP Ivan Andric understood you impeccably and did not misread you. I think it's clear through these four discussions. It is the right of the chair to approve, so it is clarified, you represent the party's position above the general, and the motion represents the general above the party, and that concludes the debate on Article 23. MP Cedomir Jovanovic, Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22904	Mrs. Komic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will ask you for some attention, so that we can decide on a very important issue that the Republic Government has asked us, asking us to understand. In fact, a law on the organisation and competencies of state authorities in countering organised crime has arrived in the assembly procedure. It's a very important law that we've been working very actively on, a law that rightly deserves a serious assembly debate, and we would like this law to be found at this extraordinary session, as requested by the government. This is possible if you, as MPs, respect the position of 2nd Article 158 of the existing Rules of Procedure on the work of the Republic of Parliament and put the bill in the assembly procedure. I propose that this be the eighth item of the agenda, so the agenda point that will follow a joint united debate on law in the area of justice. I think that this debate could take place in the second half of next week; therefore, there is plenty of time for MPs to prepare, to apply their amendments, given that it is an emergency procedure and MPs would be able to propose amendments until the debate itself begins. I hope you'll have an understanding of this proposal and support it. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place, according to the Rules of Procedure!) )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22905	I would only ask the MP to give the correct name of the act we put as a proposal for the eighth item of the agenda. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: The Injury of the Businessman. You'll get your word when we finish the job on the proposal, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22906	The debate on this is not foreseen by the Rules of Procedure, and I think we can discuss this if the Assembly makes its agreement and puts it into an emergency procedure as an emergency item of the agenda - Proposal for a law on the organisation and jurisdiction of state authorities in countering organised crime. It's a complete formulation and I came out one more time to tell you exactly. So - Proposal for a law on the organisation and jurisdiction of state authorities in countering organised crime. We have so far been in situations where we felt that the country's security was compromised or that there are reasons for an emergency or emergency procedure being debated by respecting this kind of procedure, as in the case of a counter-guarantee for loans financed by the remont of Serbia's Elektroprivreda - it was one of the occasions when we had just come through this initiative and procedure during the current session of the Republic's parliament. Thank you in advance for understanding. (Vojislav Seselj, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22907	I would like to put to the vote MP Cedomir Jovanovic's proposal on the proponent's consent to be put on as the eighth point of the Fifth Extraordinary Session - a bill on the organisation and jurisdiction of state authorities in countering organised crime. For 105, no one with abstentions voted 40 out of 145 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided to include the draft law on the organisation and jurisdiction of state authorities in the fight against organised crime as the eighth item of the Fifth Extraordinary Session. The People's MP Vojislav Seselj, a violation of the Rules of Procedure about the work of the National Assembly, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22908	The Rules of Procedure have been double-injured. First of all, you had to give me your word right away as soon as I advertised the breach of the Rules of Procedure, you didn't deliberately, and the injury consisted in putting it to the vote against the provisions of the Rules of Procedure and I wanted to stop you. All this which he explained his proposal to Cedomir Jovanovic is fine, anything can, in addition to voting, be placed on the agenda until we get the text of the law. We don't even know the name of the law, he ordinarily dictated it here; the first time he didn't, you wanted to put it to the vote, he went out for the second time to say the title of the law. Now let me ask you, none of you know the title of that law, you know, it's not true. The law may have reached the National Assembly building, but it has not yet been delivered to the MPs. You could've delivered by tonight, so at the end of the session we voted, we could've done it tomorrow, it's not too late for the end of the week, there's time for amendments by the emergency procedure, there's nothing disputed besides putting you to a vote under Article 158, and we haven't seen the text of that bill, nor does anyone here know the title of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22909	According to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he is required to give an explanation. The provision you did not quote under the regulation, as it should be, is the provision of Article 96(3), which reads: "The president, or representative of the parliamentary group, who wants to talk about the violation of this Rules of Procedure, gives the President of the National Assembly the floor immediately after the presentation of the previous speaker has been completed." In the case of your request, previous speakers were MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, as president of the DOS parliamentary group and MP Gordana Comic, as chairman of the National Assembly. The moment we both finished our presentations, you got the word and you just took advantage of the right to highlight the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Are you satisfied with the explanation or do you want me to put it to a vote? (Vojislav Seselj: To put to the vote. ) On the infringements of the Rules of Procedure, the Administrative Committee is declared under the new provisions, but since you as a People's MP did not respect the time foreseen for the discussion in particular, I suppose we can afford you a single vote as a violation of the Rules of Procedure, so that we remain at the level of tolerance for non-compliance with the Rules of Procedure. (Vojislav Seselj: Why do you vote if it is a violation of the Rules of Procedure? Don't give me a break. ) National MP Vojislav Seselj wants the Rules of Procedure respected and therefore this provision will go as a proposal to the Administrative Committee. Do you want the Administrative Board to decide that? (Vojislav Seselj: I will answer you if you give me your word. I have no basis for giving you my word, except to make your statement. (Vojislav Seselj: Then what are you asking me? We're moving on in the agenda. The 23rd amendment was filed by MP Velimir Simonovic. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22910	Ladies and gentlemen, listening to this debate on how to elect members of the council, yesterday in the principle debate and today in the presentation of certain MPs, I am even more convinced that my amendment is fully useful in that spirit to amend part of this law. I propose that Article 23 in the first position reads this: "The members of the council are elected by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to the public competition, which is being called by the Government and will submit the list of candidates to the National Assembly." Why is that? It's relatively this, this list of eight of some organizations and why not the other eight inside. Why isn't it the Academy, the university or this one or that one? Whatever eight of you put in there, we could be so convincing to defend that it's just the ones who need to be authorized representatives. So that some organisations don't mind why they're not in these lists, amongst the eight possible promoters, the cleanest situation is the competition, and those who might suggest can recommend to some people - report to the competition, and we will lobby for you to be elected. In a brief conversation with Mr Cedomir Jovanovic in the elevator today after the end of the session, he said it would be difficult for criteria. I've solved that question in a simple way. Article 25 needs to enter the conditions of the competition and it's all settled. It says who can be chosen. In position 2, I propose that a member of the council be elected if two-thirds of the MPs voted in favour of his election. The other members are deleted. It has been observed in the private talks, here in the towers I have been made aware that it may be a very difficult condition to choose a council member with two-thirds, two-thirds majority. However, the two-thirds majority is needed since members of the council must be at the will of the highest number of political and interest groups. What's this about? If they report to the competition really very professional people, prominent people whose authority no one suspects, then there is no reason to assume and the priority is that they will not vote and opposition MPs. They will certainly vote for such people, who guarantee that they will do well. Then we get out of all those discussions. It is solved in an extremely elegant way, a competition is called, people report, we choose them here with a two-thirds majority, and then they can have a lot of legitimacy to do the job, and that most of them in this House are satisfied with such a choice.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22911	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? The word is made by MP Vojislav Seselj, president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22912	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment of Velimir Simonovic is very interesting and would, if accepted, be in the spirit of elementary democratic principles. If it is already difficult to achieve the agreement that institutions will propose candidates for members of the Agency's council and if you categorically do not accept that they are parliamentary groups, then it is more democratic to call a competition, to report themselves, and to prescribe the conditions: a high professional prepares, to deal with the corresponding number of years of a particular profession, to insist that they be older people so as not to be too long on the council, without having amassed experience. Six years is a mandate and has the possibility of renewing the mandate, etc. There's no possibility of a renewal? Once six years and never again, right? So this idea is very interesting and acceptable for us Serbian radicals. There would be again people who belong to various institutions, perhaps academics, university professors, from various associations of writers, journalists, artists, etc. It's a premise that an artistic elite would appear. However, those who are interested, since this is a very important body of state administration, then membership in this advice by nature should be professional. There are a huge number of competencies, a huge number of jobs that will perform and council membership excludes the possibility of doing something else seriously and professionally. So, if their professional status is regulated in the council, it would be very tempting for many prominent intellectuals. This is where you said you wanted to expand freedom. It may have been your sincere wish once, five, six years ago, but ever since you came to power, you've only been narrowing down freedom. Is freedom for you when the Serbian Radical Party cannot appear on any Belgrade television for two years? Is that freedom? If that's freedom, it can be defined in law -- freedom is that Serbian radicals cannot access the media. I can see how you control the daily press. Except for News, there's nothing in any daily paper about what I said yesterday, and I've been talking for six hours. It doesn't matter. Let it go, it doesn't matter at all. It's something else that matters. You see, there's something else you didn't take care of. Very rare are state institutions that have the right, only the right to propose staff solutions to parliament. It's just the President of the Republic, as far as... (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. ) Will you tolerate me a little, and I will shorten the next exposure? Compromise, thank you. That's how much I'm gonna cut off the next exhibit. The President of the Republic proposes judges of the Constitutional Court and the Prime Minister, the prime minister. The Supreme Council of Justice proposes judges. Is there anyone else so important in the state that it has the right to propose staff solutions to parliament, and parliament must not supplement that, should not change what is proposed, nor add to its proposals? You have now, apart from the President of the Republic and the Supreme Council of Justice, introduced the province government, and the provincial parliament, and the Republic Government, and NGOs, and churches and religious communities, and various professional associations. That's terrible. With this you have thrown under the feet and the institution of the President of the Republic and the institution of the Supreme Council of Justice, regardless of who is now in office of the President of the Republic and who is in the Supreme Council of Justice. You're playing with these institutions, and you're breaking Parliament's reputation. You say - only parliament can be trusted. Well, of course, when only members of parliament chose the citizens directly, only MPs have the trust of the people, and these others do not have the trust of the people, they have not proved it. Let the university go to elections, let the churches go to elections, let NGOs go to elections, let the election be attended by professional associations, see if the people have confidence in them. They all assume, the people love them. Let them prove it once. Don't give them such extensive and public authority unless they're ready to check in the election to see if they enjoy the people's trust.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22913	The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the DOS parliamentary group, and then by MP Zoran Angelkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22914	Mrs. Komic, the Honored Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is a proposal to amend the law tabled by the MP from the DOS group and it is my obligation to give me an explanation of the denial of support for the initiative. Namely, there's nothing controversial about the idea of a public competition. It's certainly the most effective way to avoid any kind of manipulation in the election. So there are no intermediaries; direct contact between the candidates and the institution calling the competition. However, we have another criterion that we must inevitably respect, which is a matter of time. I will remind you of the transitional provisions of this law which very clearly and precisely define the deadlines within which the selection of members of the council, the procedure under which it will be done, then the subsequent selection of members of the Management Board of the Serbian Broadcasting Institution, Vojvodina; the time period during which a partial balance of RTS and the time period during which the Agency's advice must organise its work. All this work needs to be completed by 31 January 2003. At that time interval, it is virtually impossible to organise a valid public competition without a previous one, I cannot say passing, controls carried out at the level of these proposings, at the level of eight proposings, from a rectorial conference to religious communities. In fact, we have transferred part of our work to them and thus relieved the Republic's parliament and contributed to us as initiators of this law to bring the law into force as soon as possible. If we were to organise a public competition, imagine what it would be like to have a congregation debate in which we would have to discuss the proposed 100, 200, 300, 1,000 or 5,000 candidates who would report to the competition, regardless of these criteria; they are not controversial criteria and it is not disputed that these criteria would be defined in some way, they would also determine that they would eliminate this abundance in the running process. Again, too much work at a limited time interval, with the recommendation being made to these proposing that those in the process of coming one, or two candidates respect the institution of the public competition. It is much easier for them, because this procedure is being distributed than for us as parliament. It would be practically impossible, given these deadlines, 45 plus 45 days, then 30 days plus 30 days and 15 days plus 15 days. And too little time for too much work. This way, it'll be possible to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22915	The basis for the replica? A reference in the presentation of MP Cedomir Jovanovic. Please, MP Velimir Simonovic, a replica of the presentation of MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22916	So this isn't a replica, that, like between us, there are some arguments and arguments, far from it. By the way, I am deeply convinced that the competition will solve this matter faster than they will until they agree on points 6 and 7 of which they will run for office. I'm deeply convinced of that.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22917	The word is from MP Zoran Angelkovic, the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22918	The bird that flies always has two wings, and sometimes on the flight, he throws out the feces and finishes the job and moves on. That's the SPS. Therefore, the matter is quite clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22919	People's MP, either take care of the language you speak at the pay phone, or you'll be having controversies in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22920	I ask you to stop continuing to throw MPs in this House, because it is also part of the unculture and intolerance that applies when the MPs speak to the opposition. You've been tolerant for years. I also accepted the answers. All right, let's get back to the amendment. I think Mr. Simonovic suggested something that could contribute. If the Government does not accept the entire amendment, then let it accept in part that amendment, in that formula, that this council should represent the will of the largest number of political and interest groups, that it is important through this competition, besides at least this other half of which is elected in this council, to choose in this way; and it does not necessarily mean that one competition is made, but for different structures of different competitions. Therefore, there may be as many election lists as there are representatives on the council. So if we have a representative on the board of NGOs, then it's logical to have representatives at the competition of some NGOs and choose them. Who will sign the proposal on behalf of NGOs? Who is it that is authorized on behalf of NGOs to sign a proposal that will come to the Assembly? Who's the one who's authorized in the name of the rector? Are private university or state university rectors? Who's the one who's gonna sign on behalf of those organizations? So it is logical for the state, then, to call a competition in areas and in the structure of interest; the 22nd article clearly states which areas people should be, members of the council. In this way, the Assembly would come up with an adequate council that would be in the interest of all or better to say in the interest of the largest number and political and interest groups in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22921	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. ) We move on to Article 23, to which the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Kesic. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? You have no right to this amendment, and in the stenogram you can see that we had a gentleman's agreement to overstep time in the debate under the previous amendment and you spent that time. (Employer Seselj from the scene: only the time I've exceeded.) You've been over three minutes. I'm sorry. (Employer Seselj from the place: I want a word. ( b) Does any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Rajko Baralic, Đura Lazic, Jovan Todorovic, Dragan Jovanovic and Branko Ruzic. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Đura Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22922	The Honorable Presidency, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, a group of SPS MPs, on behalf of the SPS MPs, submitted an amendment to this, in our opinion, very important member of the law, which is really being broken by many spears. The provisions of this article to me are so strange that they should give a special analysis and special interpretations at each point. However, due to the limited time, I'm not in a position to explain all these points a little bit more, I'll just say the following. The amendment proposes that points 3 and 4 be changed. Point 3 - instead of "Government of the Republic of Serbia" being "Radio-Television of Serbia", as a proposal for a member of the council. Point 4 - instead of the Executive Council of the AP Vojvodina, to propose a member of the council to be the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts. We Socialists believe that the Serbian Academy of Science and Art and that it has a need and value. It would also be helpful to suggest one of the members of the agency's council. Also, we propose that the position of the 4th member be changed and read: "The ninth member of the council proposes to the Committee on Culture and Informing of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, with the candidate being the person living in the area of AP Kosovo and Metohija." Why are we suggesting this? Because in the proposed law, the ninth member from Kosovo and Metohija is being brought into an unequal position, which I spoke of in the principle debate, because, as a full member of the council, the other elected members are proposing it. This devalues the ninth member from Kosovo and Metohija. It would be natural for a member of the Kosovo and Metohija council to propose a assembly body, if another body from Kosovo and Metohija can't already, say the Kosovo government, the Kosovo Assembly. If you would accept that these bodies are proposing, as Vojvodina suggests, the question is who would they suggest. It is therefore natural for a congregation body, or a Committee on Culture and Information, and it would be more natural for the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija to propose to the Assembly of the ninth member of the council. I think that makes sense and that this amendment should be accepted, because that would be the right solution. Madam Chairman, allow me to say two or three more sentences. In yesterday's exhibitions, as well as earlier, it was said that Kosovo and Metohija lost our country's powers under Resolution 1244 and that there is UNMIK. It is true, however, that UNMIK representatives, as representatives of the international organisation, have been persistently breaking the Security Council's resolution for three years and allowing these Shipar Broadcasts in Kosovo and Metohija to spread hate speech against the Serb people, against the state of Serbia and Yugoslavia, to use all the wicked funds against our country. They are declared Democrats, as representatives of the international community, and do nothing to stop that hate speech, and as a democratic country, we are now proposing a member to suppress hate speech in these votes, according to this bill. Once again, I ask you, when it comes to selecting the ninth member, to respect this proposal and to propose to the ninth member the Committee on Culture and Information or the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22923	Is anyone else answering for word on this amendment? The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22924	I will never make any gentleman's arrangements with you again, because you just gave me one minute of it, and then you denied me the opportunity to speak for at least one minute, your vice president, because I had two minutes of gentleman overruns that you granted me, and then you completely denied me the opportunity to speak. The amendment contains one element with which the parliamentary group would agree, which is the insistence, if the agency, or its advice, is already set up, that the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts be one of the institutions that will propose members. I would not agree that it would be a Serbian Radio-Television. Why? They're on the government payroll, they're civil servants, they work in a public firm, and why would they have a representative on the agency's council? It is a very smart insistence that a representative from Kosovo and Metohija must live in the area of Kosovo and Metohija, not someone who pretends to be from Kosovo and Metohija, either originating, or once lived, and now to be a representative. That wouldn't be correct. You see, about this member that we've been most debated about, the way the agency's advice was formed, a lot of you were getting public yesterday. I've also seen various statements on various TVs from prominent DOS representatives. Many of you have spoken -- it means, as soon as the council is established, that Pink gets a national frequency, it's understood that BK gets, it means B92. You want me to mention names? That's exactly what the first test of the agency's advice is going to be. If these three TVs give the frequency, then it's clear. He has neither objectivity nor impartiality, corruption is at work. Why? On the side of who previously funded B92. No property issues have been resolved there: who is the founder, what is the link between the public enterprise "Serbian Forests" in the supply of equipment, etc. However, Pink was formed as a July television, the greatest possible privilege he had for years, was carrying out money laundering, criminal affairs, was privileged from all sides. Now you embrace it and say, well, it's normal to get the frequency, Pink already has repeaters everywhere. BK TV is originally a July television, a television the opposition could not possibly come to during some periods. (Glass from the hall: "Radical Waves". There were no "radical" waves on BK TV ever. So, explicitly July television, it's privileged to get the frequency, at a time when no one else could get the frequency and now it's perfectly normal for them to get it. You know, there should be something else to predict here, that national frequencies can only get state television at first: RTS, Politics, Studio B, JU info, so that these three are sold and that these three can only remain RTS, to be sold for finished money, and not, and definitely old privileges, to mean who else would get the frequencies than Pink, BK, B92. That would be a disgrace to the nation.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22925	Is there anyone else applying for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Adam Urosevic. The proposal's representative doesn't want a thing. Does anyone else want a word? He doesn't want to. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22926	Ladies and gentlemen, in Article 24, I request that this member be changed in full and that it reads: "The Group of Representatives has the right to propose members of the council to a proportionate number of Members of Parliament who are present in the National Assembly." So all of what you have stated in Article 24 represents a precision of Article 23; a very complicated precision. You don't introduce any principle of responsibility. All of these institutions and social organisations serve you as a transmission to propose. They are influenced by extra-institutional means, sometimes blackmail, sometimes bribery, etc., all forms of non-institutional influence, while a certain person is chosen as a member of the council. Afterwards, neither those organizations that proposed him have any influence on him, nor does he account for anyone. He doesn't answer to anyone. That's the problem. Modern political systems are based, among other things, on the principle of full responsibility. Every institution in the system is responsible for everything it does. Of course, it doesn't have to mean criminal, legal responsibility, it can be political responsibility. Political responsibility is the most common form of responsibility in democracy. He who politically responds, so it turns out that he has not justified his trust, must be replaceable. Your members of the council are not expendable. The assembly is unable to replace them except when they are resolved, when they meet one of the specific conditions. But there's no way to replace the whole council. That's impossible. The Council cannot be in the ranks of the Constitutional Court, for the Constitutional Court is at the top of the pyramid of the judiciary, so the National Assembly cannot resolve the entire Constitutional Court, but under certain conditions individual members may - if they disobey the Constitution or fulfil certain legal conditions. You've brought the Agency's advice to the level of the Constitutional Court. He doesn't deserve it inside our legal system. That's problematic, when you raise him to such a level. The simplest way is to take this advice, so I return to that proposal since this amendment of mine follows the previous proposal, constructing a proportionate composition of the National Assembly... (President: Are you using the next three minutes, as head of the parliamentary group?) Yes, I can. That, therefore, it is established in proportion to the composition of the National Assembly, that the National Assembly chooses advice in general and that it can generally correspond to the National Assembly, but that its composition is changed after each election, in the area of executive power everything changes after the election. In the area of the legislative authority, everything changes after the elections, only in the area of the judicial authority does nothing change after the elections in principle, but it can be resolved by the Supreme Court president, for example. In principle, nothing changes there. In both these branches, the government changes if there is a shift in power, if the new parties win the election. This must also be provided for this administration body. This authority of the administration must not be above Parliament. It must be subject to parliament, as must all other authorities of the administration. He must be terrified of parliament. I've already explained, in the sense of these standards you've introduced, the agency is a management body parallel to the ministries, almost even with the ministries. He's even got a lot more jurisdiction than some department. The government's forming a commission that will do an ad hoc job, take a stand on the matter, etc., that doesn't essentially change anything. The government has such authority over every ministry. Any government ministry can control it that way. This agency, as it is imagined, is simply not called the Ministry. She's got all the jurisdiction. It has much more jurisdiction than the Ministry of Ecology, incomparably greater than the Ministry of Religion. The Ministry of Faith doesn't have any jurisdiction, actually there's nothing. It gives him contacts with religious communities to help solve their problems; his administrative powers are very low because he is not regulated by religious communities, legal status. There are still a whole series of ministries that have far less jurisdiction than this agency. And you're hiding the real power of the agency, hiding it from the public, giving it huge powers and pretending that it's some body that's neither executive nor parliamentary power, which isn't power at all, but an authority that enjoys the trust of everyone... (One of the MPs offers the speaker a phone. I can't answer that when I'm at the pay phone. Turn it off. You have a very cheerful atmosphere here. I don't know if you're doing this artificially, or if it's a matter of irritability because of successful government, good results in the economic and social sphere, power collection, maybe you're...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22927	I'm warning you, time's over. You just get a chance to answer your cell phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22928	Okay, maybe you've been laughing so sweet all day 'cause you're glad the electricity's up 50%, I don't know.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22929	Is anyone else answering for word on this amendment? Here's a word from MP Zoran Angelkovic, the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22930	If I'm gonna laugh, it's my private business, not yours. (He speaks to one of the messengers in the benches. ) Article 23, paragraph 1, states: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia". Of course, it's not said who's going to bring those two candidates down to one, and if we look at it now, just for that one candidate of these nine, then it's proposed an amendment -- that MP groups have the right to propose -- quite logical. Besides, who's going to bring down the list of candidates, leave the other candidates who are elected, or better say -- council members, but here says "The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia"; who is it, whether all MPs have the right to propose candidates for advice or for these two candidates and who, to the National Assembly, will be aware of the candidates who choose that. If that has not been regulated, then this amendment is logical, that the parliamentary groups have the right to propose and therefore to choose from two candidates. In fact, it was possible here, and I think that the Government would be able to bring this Article 24 into line to accept this amendment in part by either increasing or ensuring that the parliamentary groups proportionally propose the selection of a certain member of the council and that they be legitimate representatives for the selection of members of the council elected by the National Assembly from the National Assembly. You see, here - the National Assembly elects one member, the other members is also elected by the National Assembly on the proposal of others, but what it chooses on the proposal of the National Assembly - who is the legitimate promoter. It's not regulated, and I think that would be regulated by accepting this amendment, in part.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22931	Please, the word is by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the DOS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22932	Mrs. Micic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in this amendment we could recognise the meaning but at the same time we would have to recognise the party state's priority. So, if we introduce as a principle what is proposed by this amendment, proportionate representation towards the number of MPs in the Republic's parliament, then it would bring down the whole concept of the law. In fact, we've been trying all along to depolitize as much media space as possible and an agency that really has great powers; in some situations far greater than the government itself. There is, among other things, a question of responsibility that can only be brought before the court. There is no administrative procedure that involves the launch and determination of responsibilities before another state body of the administration, except before a court outside that organisation. So if we accept this amendment, we actually deny everything we want to do through this law, and we just want to depoliticalize to the extent possible. By connecting the members of the council to the number of ambassadors, we will inevitably bind the fate of this council to the political processes that are taking place in the country, and they cannot in themselves be important to question the concept of the organisation of the state. It is as if we were to change, from situation to situation, the constitution of the state in which we live or a whole series of laws passed from one government to another, from one Parliament to another. That's why we can't accept this.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22933	Members of the 24th Amendment were submitted by MP Velimir Simonovic. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here's a word from MP Velimir Simonovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22934	Gentlemen, the thing is, we still don't have the government's position on our amendments. Because if we assume a theoretical possibility for the government to adopt my amendment to Article 23, then this one will automatically go to Article 24. The reverse is if the government doesn't adopt it, then this one becomes immaterial. But in simplifying things, let me just add this to it. In Article 24, one view reads this: "If the proposings referred to in Article 23 paragraph 7 of this Act propose more than one candidate list, more than one list will be considered a valid list signed by a larger number of associations, organisations or associations, which during the previous period had a number of actions, initiatives and published publications in the field of mainly engaged." Look at the complications. They will count publications that may have been published 20 or 30 years ago. Why this complication when we end it very simply and in a very elegant way.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22935	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Here's a word from MP Vojislav Seselj, president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22936	The Serbian Radical Party supports erasing all positions of Article 1-8. Some are independent, some are superfluous, some are pointless. You see, here it is said in one of these opinions, paragraph 3: "For a member of the council, a person who enjoys the reputation of a prominent media expert, advertising expert or prominent expert in areas of importance for the work of the agency is proposed." Who is it to judge that it is a person who enjoys the reputation of a prominent media expert? Is it a prominent media expert who deals with theoretical media study, critical study, or one who has reached inconceivable heights in media manipulations? Would you, for example? Ratko Bozovica, who may have been most concerned with the issue of the media in the sociology of culture, could have been called by a man who corresponds to this criterion, who therefore theoretically studied it, or Vladimir Popović-Beba, who is an amazing practice expert? He doesn't need events, he doesn't need company, he makes it all up, he makes it all up, he makes it all up, he places it all, and it's amazing. Then who's the expert here? Of course, people who do science, intellectuals, will say - Ratko Bozovic. But people who belong to your political group admire DOS, admire Vladimir Popovic-Baby. What academics, like university professors, he invented media theory for both academics and university professors. The communications bureau is a state in the country, it determines fate. (A voice from the O.R.: Will you support him? Well, if you're running him, I might as well support him; let's see who you're running for first. He will be run by church and religious organizations, I don't know who else would, since everyone in this country gets baptized when they see what he's spreading through the media. Look, maybe he's for you and the patriarch, as Cedomir Jovanovic says, I don't know exactly what his religious function is with you, maybe Kostunica is a patriarch, it wouldn't surprise me, with you, in your system of values, I won't get into it, because these are the park institutions. However, what miracles you are able to create and place in public has increased the number of religious people in this society. The mass of people in this country, ever since you've been disinformationing like that, just getting baptized, there's nothing left for them.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22937	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? There is a word from MP Zoran Angelkovic, the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22938	Article 24(1) states: "Every authorised proposer referred to in Article 23 paragraph 3 of this law proposes a candidate for one member of the council, by making it mandatory to propose two persons on the candidate list". Professor Simonovic suggested a way, and we in the SPS accept the overall continuity of the proposal he made, but if we keep this member and this position here, then the question is raised, and this is also not resolved anywhere else - who is the one who signs the proposal for the National Assembly? That's what I asked earlier and it's not a question of the party state. Who's this, is this Mrs. President signing? Of course, I don't mind, but on what grounds did two candidates come forward? Who's the one who's going to sign off on behalf of the Vojvodina Assembly, is that the President of the Vojvodina Assembly, which is why he came to the candidates, on what grounds is the proposer, who is he? Is the Committee of the Serbian Parliament a proposing? Who is the proposing of the two candidates, to be declared by the Serbian Parliament, regarding the candidate of the Serbian Parliament? It wasn't solved here anywhere. Therefore, for these reasons there should be a competition, and whoever it is, if it is a committee, then it is logical that they will ask the board members, and the board members are representatives of political parties, and then we come back to you saying that it is a party state. Please clarify who the candidate will be, these two candidates who are elected in front of the Serbian Parliament, and who will be the promoter and signator before the Vojvodina Assembly; and we will see the absurdity of this member.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22939	The word is from a member of the DOS parliamentary group, Mr Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22940	Dear Mrs Micic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think that the question of the person who is proposing parliament is a question which will be given its answer through a predetermined procedure, which stems from the committee's competence set out in the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Republic's Parliament. So, the Committee on Culture and Information "is considering the draft law, second regulation and general act and other issues in the fields of culture and public information. "The Committee on Culture and Information will establish at its meeting a procedure for proposing two candidates, which will then support, i.e. challenge the Republic's parliament. It is true that the Committee makes 15 members, that they are representatives of the parties in parliament, and that is why Parliament proposes only one member of the council. It is also the essence of our insistence on this representation which implies that the authorities of this country can propose four members of the council, while the NGO, or the civil sector, can also choose four, and the agreement chooses the last nine, from Kosovo and Metohija. So that's why this amendment is unacceptable, and I think we've repeated it so many times, that there's actually no room for any new misunderstanding, unless it's an evil intention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22941	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Andric. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There is a word from MP Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22942	Dear Mrs. Micic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment stemmed from an irregularity that we saw in the law. I can't exactly say that there's an irregularity, there's more than one inconsistencies, since we didn't in the earlier proposal determine exactly what happens when none of the two candidates who are proposed receive the support of this assembly. Lawmakers thought not to mention it simply meant what I suggested later. I must say that the Committee has accepted this amendment, as well as a representative of the Government, so that it has become an integral part of the proposal. Now I would take the opportunity to say something about another change that was introduced between the law that was on the agenda, in the procedure, so it was withdrawn last week, and that is the new possibility that we have provided for this law, the possibility of a public hearing on the Committee. We think that this is a very important feature that this law adopts, that the public and all MPs will have the opportunity to talk publicly with all candidates about everything they think is important for this candidate; and as you will later see, there is a certain seriousness of the talks, because in a later member who provides for the resolution of the members of the council, it means that a member of the council can be resolved and if in the course of the election he has been false about himself on the issue. I think these two changes are very important since they became an integral part.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22943	National MP Zoran Angelkovic, an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group, spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22944	I think this amendment is fine and it needs to be accepted, but I have to go back to the previous question. It is true that the Committee on Culture, which is the essence, proposes two candidates, to be elected according to Article 23, and selected by the National Assembly, so that means that the parliamentary majority of the DOS will propose two candidates and select one. It is true then, according to the same analogy, that the DOS Cultural Committee of the majority in the Vojvodina Assembly will propose, as a political organisation of DOS, its candidate. It is true that the government of Serbia, represented by the DOS, will propose before its candidate's political group. It is true that the Executive Greater Vojvodina, ahead of the DOS political group, will propose its candidate. It will turn out that out of these nine DOS are entitled to four candidates, and it is not a party state, it is not a party council, and it is a party council that we choose those four, plus Kosovo, proportionally and that political parties and parliamentary groups in this parliament propose it. That is the essence of this council, where it is wanted to hide that in fact from nine candidates five essentially chooses DOS, and not as a party, without four selecting other NGOs etc. Then it was fair at least to accept that it was a fact and to say that DOS proposes five candidates or 10, so that five choices, however, do not matter; or to accept a political position that is logical - that MP groups choose proportionally to their influence in Serbia's electoral body, because they represent Serbia's electoral body.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22945	The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22946	Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment to Ivan Andric is not good, it is not meaningful, but he accidentally pointed to a problem that you have put into the legal text. You've regulated here that the Assembly is always defined between two candidates, and whoever is elected must have an absolute majority of votes and that's what's pointless here. A law that regulates broadcasting is adopted simply by most votes, and you introduce a qualified majority to select each member of the agency's council. That's ridiculous. We have a constitution that is voted by a two-thirds majority and only the Constitution prescribes that judges of the Constitutional Court, the government and ministers are elected by an absolute majority of votes and there is nothing else in the Constitution where a qualified majority is sought. You are now introducing a qualified form of the majority and it is against the constitution; we will see what the Constitutional Court will say. The law is passed by simple majority, and members of the council choose an absolute majority. It's something that's right intolerable. You can see what an recklessness and absence of a lawyer brings to you in the preparation of legal projects. Here, now that we are looking at the relationship of forces in the Assembly, if you return the mandates to DSS and the SPS, the power and opposition ratio will be tight in parliament. Now, some will vote for your proposals, and some will vote for counter-proposals, and some will not attend the session, no member of the council will be elected. This will happen to you, polarization, and that's something that's natural in democracy, but that's why democracy avoids the introduction of qualified forms of the majority where two or more candidates are elected. The qualified form of the majority makes sense when only one candidate is proposed, so you can see whether or not the absolute majority is for him. Where you're already choosing between two or more candidates, there's no point in introducing an absolute majority, unless you're counting on some secret contracts, bargaining, blackmailing, bribery, etc. I'll always vote against the one I know you'll vote for. I guess that's what all the other opposition parties are gonna do. Except for those you keep under control, so they pretend to be opposition, and you extend them on all the media and their leaders you use for your mutual conflicts. For example, between Djindjic and Mihajlovic, one is now used to pretend to be an opposition.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22947	I'm warning you of an overrun of the time allowed.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22948	I'm done.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22949	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 4. Rules of Procedure, the Legislative Committee rejected this amendment as incomplete, which is why it cannot be discussed at the National Assembly session, and that is Article 142 paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. It's incomplete. Parliamentarians Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Adam Urosevic together submitted the 25th amendment. Does a representative of the applicants of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Adam Urosevic, representative of the applicants for the amendment to Article 25. Proposal for a law on broadcasting.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22950	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Assembly Group of the Soviet Union has tabled an amendment to Article 25(1) of the Law on Broadcasting. For the sake of the public and for the citizens of Serbia, let me first quote this point from the member in question. So she refers to persons who can't be members of the agency's council. They are party officials, party presidents, presidency members, their deputies, executive and main board members, as well as other party funkcioiners. The MPs of the Soviet Union suggest that this position should not be concluded with this point and a comma, but only with a tightness and after a comma should the words be added: "as well as the persons who performed the function one year before the day of the Council's constitution". A brief explanation for all this - according to the solution proposed in the draft law, membership in the council covers a period of performance, and there is the possibility of abuse, i.e. discharges of functions immediately before the membership application for the Council. The proposed amendment also excludes the possibility of abuse and violation of the principles of incompatibility of party functions with the election of council membership. So on behalf of the Serbian Unity Party, I suggest you vote in favour of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22951	The word is made by MP Vojislav Seselj, president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22952	I think the board had to inform me in writing why the amendment was rejected, because by that amendment, I'm asking for the removal of views from the members of the law, not even offering any formulation. What's the matter? You don't like the amendment, that's why. However, what is the problem with this amendment? What you here in this amendment that I'm talking about, which you in the law, I don't agree with that amendment, I think I'm contorting the amendment, but I also object to this member of the law that you're standing behind, which you here insist on incompatibility of certain functions that are incompatible only if the agency is clearly defined as the authority of the state administration. However, you have not previously implemented this principle of incompatibility of functions through the entire political system, because if you had implemented it, Sutanovac could not have been a republican MP because he was an assistant to the Federal Minister of Interior, Goran Vesic could not have been an MP (he may have been an MP, he was until a few days ago); he will certainly fall to you in the Constitutional Court what you have done, do not worry. But it doesn't matter. The important thing is that MPs can't be at all people who work in government authorities at any level. It is incompatible, except for the minister; be careful, watch comparative practice, legal practice, assistant minister cannot, deputy minister cannot, they are state officials. Ministers are state officials elected by parliament. Only MPs can be ministers in England, but there is a principle of incompatibility there. The official appointed by the government, therefore appointed by the authority of the state administration, cannot be a member of the legislative body. It's a principle that's been implemented everywhere in the democratic world. You obviously haven't understood him yet. However, I draw your attention to this amendment concerning this incompatibility of functions, that the issue of incompatibility of functions in the entire political system must be cleared up first. There's a lot more trouble with you than there was in the past. In the earlier period, when SRS deputies became deputies, ministerial assistants immediately submitted resignations to MPs. You can check that out. It has to be done because otherwise it violates the elemental principle of the division of power. He can't be an MP in the National Assembly for someone who's the minister. He cannot fulfill the trust of his constituents, he is existentially dependent on someone who should not control the legislative authority.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22953	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Toma Busetic, Joca Arsic, Milos Nesovic and Sreten Mitrovic. Does a representative of the applicants of the amendment want a word? The People's Messenger Tom Bushetić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22954	Dear fellow Members of Parliament, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I have proposed... There is no wing, the SPS is a single party headed by President Slobodan Milosevic. Our amendment concerns Article 25, which speaks of incompatibility with membership in the council. The proposer at point 3 says political party officials cannot be members of the council. This definition is not precise, because it is about members of the main board, executive committees, party presidents, and our formulation is a little more precise, because we say that members of the council cannot be members of the political parties' bodies from municipal to federal level. Of course, we went a little further, so we suggested that members of the council couldn't even be functioners of NGOs. It's primarily about those NGOs whose officials are on RTS, Pink and BK TV every day. It is simply those NGOs which are an instrument for foreign intelligence services, which are mainly involved in the guilt of the Serbian people and the Serbian state, which is not or has it much less than it is the guilt of Muslims, Shipara and Croats. Biljana Kovacevic, Kandic, Sonja Biserko simply speak in hate language and these NGOs should be banned, so our proposal is that the officials of these NGOs cannot be members of the council very much. Of course, we know that members of the council will be elected at the will of the DOS and at the beginning we have no confidence in these members. It's the only thing that can deny us time. However, we do not believe that outcome and would have been precedentd since the DOS was in power. The council should be composed primarily of representatives of political parties relative to the power in parliament, and perhaps it is the best solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22955	Does anyone else sign up for a word? The word is made by MP Vojislav Seselj, president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22956	The amendment of MP Tomo Busetic is very meaningful, because if you rule out political party officials from the agency's board of directors, the question is, in particular, why don't you rule out NGO officials. What difference does that make? We have incomparably more powerful NGOs than some political parties, and financially, in a political sense, in media attention, in media support, etc. On the one hand, you have absolutely blocked the Serbian Radical Party by media, and on the other hand a huge number of pro-Western NGOs are visiting on all your television programs, without any criteria, without any taste, and you consider them serious factors. One man, an individual, gathered around him two or three men like Biljana Kovacevic - Wolf and she is an NGO, she has power, she has influence, she is someone and something. When's somebody gonna tell her it's nobody and nothing? You're in no condition to do that. I understand why you're not able to do this, and that's why I'm not trying to change your mind. I'm just looking through a legal-logical interpretation of your legal project's shortcomings, its inconsistencies. This is where you had to say that even university rectors can't be, because this doesn't mean now that all university rectors meet and propose two amongst themselves. Under the same criteria as party presidents and other officials, ambassadors and ministers, university rectors cannot be members of this council either. Neither can the heads of NGOs, their officials, because on the one hand you will create conditions in which those who are legally and legitimately involved in politics will be discriminated against, and only legitimately deals with those who can prove that at least a part of the people behind them are political parties, contrary to those who may be legally involved in politics, if they do not receive money from foreign intelligence services, but are not legitimate. No NGO is legitimate unless it goes to the polls and makes sure it enjoys the trust of the people. They can act, spread false information to the public, have hundreds of thousands of members, sympathisers, this, that. It's all pointless, but they're legal if they're registered and they don't break the law, and the law forbids funding from abroad by foreign governments and spy organizations. The police didn't try to investigate the issue, and unfortunately, they didn't try very hard before. This is not just a criticism to you, but to those who have tolerated it before. (President: I warn you of an excessive amount of time. ) I therefore insist that the principle of incompatibility be carried out literally through the entire political system, not only in this law and in one limited, reduced way.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22957	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? The word is by MP Zoran Angelkovic, the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22958	When we submitted this amendment, we came from even an analysis of what was proposed in certain councils, more specifically what the Government proposed in certain college councils, such as the Faculty of Law, which are members of the Faculty of Law councils in front of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. When we see that, which NGOs here have proposed their representatives or, more specifically, the Government in front of NGOs, then I think this amendment is entirely meaningful. No one has said so many ugly words against their country, insulting words against their people and against their country, such as some representatives of NGOs, the heads of NGOs; much more or less than any political representative of the position or opposition, and when I speak to positions and opposition, I mean not only today's position and opposition, but also the one before the election. Then at least it makes sense that we are already saying today that these NGOs can't be in this council or proposed, nor can the Assembly be declared. Not only because of the fact that they did not in any way check the political mood of citizens towards them, because if they checked, they would see that they do not like them at home either, but also because of the fact that some of these officials have proven that they cannot be impartial when it comes to this action that is related to the advice, and in particular they are not any experts who could endanger the credibility or strength of the council. We know that in advance, and not to mention them, I don't want to advertise them. We know who we're thinking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22959	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. Do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22960	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, maybe I'd give up on some amendment, but this DOS environment convinces me to represent every amendment firmly and every time I go out for a pay phone, so that's why I'm doing it. I asked for a change in the position of Article 1 of the 26th, which reads: "The members of the council do not represent in the advice of the authorities or organisations that have proposed them, but do their duty on their own, according to their own knowledge and conscience, in accordance with this law." This norm is based on principle - I'm telling you a story. The law doesn't suffer this kind of negativity that someone doesn't represent. It can't stand in the law. The law only stands if it represents someone, and who does it represent? I propose that this be thrown out - they do not represent in the advice of the authorities or organisations that have proposed them, and that they remain - members of the council do their duty on their own, according to their own knowledge and conscience in accordance with this law. That's what it's all said. There's no delegate system there then. So why get into the norm and this -- they don't represent the organization that proposed them. Of course they don't represent her. If anyone suggested it, it wasn't someone who chose them. They were chosen by the National Assembly. If it makes sense for someone to be held accountable for their work, only the National Assembly. I don't know how you got to them, it doesn't matter, but you got them together. We've collected pears and apples. However, this is now another problem that has already been discussed. What's important here is there's no reason to say what's meant to be that in practice it can't exist. There's no institutional possibility that anyone who suggested recalls. There's no such thing. Is that right? Where is it? There is only a possibility that someone can be resolved if the legal conditions are met. There's no way anyone can call off. Can I have a glass of water? I'll hold out until six o'clock, don't worry. I'll hold out until six o'clock for sure, and maybe if there's an extension, don't worry. So if NGOs or churches propose some candidates for members of the council, I can't have these NGOs saying afterwards -- we changed our minds, we don't want to go there anymore, we want someone else. Nor can the churches do that. Neither can governments, nor can congregations. The terms of the term of office shall be taxed here and under these conditions the term of office may cease. There's no other option.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22961	Are you using the next three minutes? Now you've freshened up, you can.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22962	Yeah. I can take a shower, so don't hesitate if... What's important in this case? It is important that you do not put excessive words into the legal norms, so as not to overbook the legal norm. The legal standard must be simple, simple, easy to understand, it must not have any excess. Why did I miss the theme? To throw something away. Is that right? There's an obvious surplus here in the legal code, and no one's responding, no one's showing willingness to remove it. You've had in some other norms. You've seen more pointless terms there in the law of public procurement. We see now -- criminal law experts, and among them, Professor Lazarevic, they find you meaningless provisions in this special law to fight the mafia, as you called it, we haven't gotten it on paper yet, and we voted to enter the agenda. It's all a lack of law enforcement experts. Of course, maybe one of you will wonder why I insist on it so much. I insist on everything that shows that your authority is not serious or at least not serious enough, and that is also the essence of your legal texts, that is their legal form. After all, the poor legal form also speaks of the poor mental state of the creator, which means that he is underthinking the law, that it itself is not a clear concept. It's not hard for a man who's in his head to express himself, and it's not hard to share his thoughts with someone else. The one with the mess in his head is a mess in legal norms. One who is not clear with his thoughts is complicated by legal norms. The one who understands everything, who has a clear concept, and the concept wants to break into letters, words, sentences, legal norms, it's easy to put together legal norms that are extremely simple, extremely understandable...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22963	I'm warning you of an overrun of the time allowed.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22964	... all understandable and very easy in practice applicable.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22965	Does anyone else sign up for a word? No, I don't. ) The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Rajko Baralić, Branko Ružić, Joca Arsic and Radojko Petrovic. The word is from MP Rajko Baralic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22966	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, esteemed journalists, on behalf of the SPS, with a few colleagues, we have submitted an amendment to Article 26(3). No one has the right to influence the work of members of the council in any way, nor are they obliged to respect any instruction in their work, in relation to their work, other than the decision of the competent court and others, etc. Here is the first position of this member. Otherwise, Article 26 defines the term of office of members of the Council. One single member practically gives unlimited power to members of the council who will perform a very important function under this law. Let me rephrase a few sentences with one conviction that someone here thinks that the member of the council who is a member of this council on behalf of the church communities will resist the influence of whoever suggested him. I absolutely can't believe it, and you don't believe it either. Speaking of this, wasn't it normal, though I know that some of you are having a hard time accepting this, that the Serbian Orthodox Church, at least in the first term in this meeting, has an exclusive right to a member. Does it bother because the Serbian Orthodox or for the same reasons there is no SANU here, I don't know, it would be pretentious to say that. Looks like something to me. We have suggested that the advice, the agency for its work, corresponds to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, by submitting once a year a report - not information, but a report - to the National Assembly. We think it's a better solution, that it's more acceptable for both broadcasters and users, for citizens and for everyone else. If it stays as suggested, we have a virtually unlimited impact of members of the council who, as it says here, don't account for anyone, don't respond to anyone, it's all on their conscience, what they would say in sports -- free judgment or judgment. Indeed, too much authority for people who, regardless, and I don't doubt that there will be honest people, but people are from different organizations and they will by nature be subject to the influence of the organization from which they come. If this article defines it, it's exactly the opposite. That's just impossible. You know, it's impossible to swim, not to get wet. You claim it's possible here, and practice will show that it's not possible... (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. ....................................................................................................... And we're gonna have a big problem with this. So please, we support this part where it's said that no one has the right to influence in any way, but that's why there has to be some other mechanism and it's different from the one you suggested here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22967	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? Yeah. ) The word is held by MP Vojislav Seselj, president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22968	You can see by this attitude of article 26 how clumsy you are in legal norms. It reads: "No one has the right to influence the work of members of the council in any way, nor are they obliged to respect any instructions relating to their work, except for decisions by the competent court taken in the judicial control of the work of the council." So there's judicial control. Why isn't there a parliamentary office? In a system divided by three branches, the authorities are in principle equal, but the legislative authority is something more equal than the other two. There's a need for her to be involved in that control, too. Parliament is able to schedule a debate on the criminal policy of courts or on the situation in courts. However, you rule out the possibility for parliament to schedule a debate, in the capacity of its constitutional functions to control the work of all administrative authorities, on the work of the agency's council. You know, when you say no one has the right to influence, it's pointless. Always someone influences; influences a husband, influences children, parents of a member of the agency's council, mistresses often influence. That's right. It's pointless to rule out anyone's influence. There's not a single sphere of man's action that's been deprived of all influences. You cannot deny the right of the opposition to criticise your agency's advice. We'll criticize him from the first day of the election, all the bells, everywhere. You can't deny us that right. You can change the Criminal Law, so you can end any criticism. You can change the constitution, and you can end the opposition. You can do anything in principle, but how long will it take? Furthermore, why is it said here that they are not obliged to follow any instructions. The whole law shows that no one can give them instructions, and this provision is supposed to have instructions, that they will be, but they are not obliged to respect them. What do you suppose these instructions are anyway? Who can instruct one authority of the administration that has its prescribed powers, except, possibly, the senior authority of the administration. Only a senior administrative authority can give the authority instructions of an institutional character. On the side of these political, moral influences in the public, etc. Since you predicted that no government body is above the agency's and agency's advice in general, you have therefore ruled out the possibility of institutional instruction. In a legal sense, there's no one to give them instructions. It's not an advantage for them, it's their weakness. It might be wise to rule out the possibility of someone but the court getting involved in individual solutions, but their overall policy, development strategy, etc. must be subject to parliamentary debate and legislative control.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22969	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 27 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22970	Ladies and gentlemen, in Article 27, I request that the mandate of members of the Agency's council be as long as the mandate of the National Assembly, i.e. with each new assembly to elect new members of the Agency's council. Why? If you happen to have this law left, I'm sure you can't have any human resources left. You can't imagine the new power that would come after you, which would be so crazy, unspeakable, stupid, to keep your people on the advice of the broadcasting agency. That's impossible. Why do you establish these principles that apply for all time, when they last as long as your power? Be realistic in this assessment and accept this amendment, that the mandate of the members of the council lasts as long as the mandate of the National Assembly, that a new assembly of the National Assembly, within three months of the day of its constitution, choose a new council of the Agency. Then some chance this law of yours will survive. If the law does not contain it, the new parliamentary majority will either change this provision or, more likely, amend the law in general. I warned you about Milan Milutinovic's case, which was on the sidelines, did not dare the Serbian radicals to impose that position, but it did to the Socialists and the Juveniles, to pass a law on the privileges of the former presidents of the Republic. He thought the law would be greater, and when his function expired, he would have all these privileges. The law lasts shorter than the duration of its function. That's what you're gonna do with this. You deliberately pass a law that is time-limited by the duration of your authority, especially when I feel from statements made last night by many leaders and leaders of DOS for these three televisions that the council will be embarrassed at the first step, if it assigns national frequencies to BK TV, "Pinku" and B92. It's a moral failure of counsel. Let's see if the council can resist these officials of yours that weigh these three televisions. This is a big challenge for that advice. If it remains firm, unwavering, if these televisions do not deserve national frequencies in a moral sense, regardless of what previously had great privileges, then the agency's advice will also have some moral credibility. If he falls on that first exam and one of his first decisions is to "Pink", BK and B92 get national frequencies because they have buildings, techniques, repeaters, without asking how they got to these buildings, to that technique, to these repeaters, moral credibility is lost. That's what they got at a time when some of your parties were in power. Pink TV and BK TV got an illegal frequency when I was in prison. It was 1994 and early 1995. I remember very well that BK television started broadcasting its program when I was in Central Prison, and Pink was there about a month earlier, a month later. Palma's a little early. I'm not saying "Palma" here. You've already shut it down. Batic's taken over, and there's nothing from Palma. She's not in the game anymore. These three televisions, the ones that were notorious in the past and that are now even more notorious. Watch out, what's that Pink TV doing? I'm on my way to an official visit to Iraq, and I've been invited to the Baghdad Conference... What are you laughing at? [[Laughter in the O.R.]] It's an educational example. Maybe somebody's gonna laugh even sweeter to you soon. Listen to the example, it's instructive. I'm going on an official call, delegations and various other parties, even some parties that are your coalition partners, were at least until yesterday. I take part in a public conference there, I make statements for television, for the newspaper, my speeches go through the satellite program, and "Pink" announces that I went secretly to Iraq in the company of Iraqi intelligence agents. Of course, the information lasts one day, but she did her thing. Vladimir Popovic - The baby designed it, said Zeljko Mitrovica, as the Julyers told him earlier - you have to broadcast this and it's over. Guys, this law on the media scene doesn't solve anything. That's what you should know. With this law, you're staining the eyes of the public. The point is that you are not honestly defined as democratisation of the media, especially the broadcasting media. That's the problem. There's no honest commitment with you. Read "The Great Serbia", in "The Great Serbia", everything was published -- who was in Iraq. It's all been published in "The Great Serbia", read "The Great Serbia" -- a list of truths. Will I be able to finish my presentation? [[Sagar.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22971	I ask the People's Messengers to stop earning the speaker and, by respecting the Rules of Procedure, to listen with attention and respect, and MP Vojislav Seselj - six minutes and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22972	I'll be done right away. So you have to show the will to truly democratisation the media. You're not showing it. Everyone applauds when I say the SRS has been blocked in all Belgrade media for two years. Here, again, let's applaud again. Now, that's proof of your democracy. Many of you don't understand that. I can see from the Light of Koraq that he understood.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22973	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? Here's a word from MP Zoran Angelkovic, the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22974	There are more possibilities in this article. If the legislator wanted to follow the continuity of the law, since one member forecasts eight years for the allocation of frequencies, then he could have the time when they shared the mandate and be in place by the end of the term of office. But if you wanted to talk, even if it takes six years of a term of office, about not providing for the influence of the political party in power, then at least listen to the excess of this third position of Article 27: "The members of the first council, whose mandate lasts for two or four years, are determined by pre-determining the Assembly to the proposed proposals, the president of the Parliament of draws the mandated legislators whose candidates are proposed to elect for two and four years respectively." If so, at least it was logical and fair to say in this article that those elected by the National Assembly of Serbia, elected by the Serbian Government, i.e. suggests, proposed by the Vojvodina Assembly, which is proposed by the Executive Greater Vojvodina, that at least those members of the council after the change of power, after the elections propose again those proposals and are re-elected. Because now what? You want them to stay for the next six years, so you don't want them to change yet, but by lot, if one of them happens to stay, they'll have to stay and only these others will be there in some way safe. Therefore, it is logical, if the whole of this amendment is not to be accepted, that the government accepts at least part of the amendments, that members of the councils elected on the proposal of the National Assembly of Serbia, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Executive Council of Vojvodina and the Vojvodina Assembly should extend the mandate as soon as the mandate ceases and the Serbian Parliament. Of course, I understand that you can't, but at least let's be honest, to admit that this is not a request from the Council of Europe or the European institutions, but rather your desire to control the media space for the next six years, not to control it for how long the mandate of this Parliament or the Parliament of Vojvodina takes. So let's be honest then. Let's not say we don't want a party state, but that's exactly what we want - to make a party advice that determines both frequencies and how the program will be broadcast. So let's open up a fair story and say what we want, to the end, that the public knows it, and let's not hide behind some members that have completely exceeded the way they're proposed. For these reasons, I propose to the Government to modify not only this member but, on that line, to modify previous members who would ensure that at least in that part, the parliamentary majority, if that is what the parliamentary majority wants in this assembly. If he doesn't want to, then I'm asking for a different way of making suggestions. Professor Simonovic, I've come to an end.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22975	Do any of the other authorised representatives want a word? The word is made by the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Zarko Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22976	In writing this law, a great effort has been made to achieve something that is otherwise objective in social life that is difficult, to a professional and independent body, to the bodies that have certain verification; as I said, and I am glad that it has been repeated in some discussions and contributions here for a pay phone, that the Serbian Parliament is choosing, in fact, to verify these people because it can't be otherwise. Of course, I'm sorry that in advance there are people who will be chosen, because I suppose it's best to see not only who these people are but also their first decisions first. But what is the essence, and I'm saying it primarily for the public, but, of course, because of the MPs sitting in this room, it's that many questions are being raised behind this pay phone -- and because of the further time, I don't want to quote parts of the law -- whether in a fair and correct way the political activities of the parties are being shown and covered, is our political life shown correctly enough in general. In addition to the law on informationmaking, which is being prepared and which will soon be completed, the agency will have a duty to answer such questions when it comes to electronic media, which, as we all know well, are essentially the most influential. So, another body is being created that Serbia did not have, which people will be able to turn to and ask for their opinion, means that they answer the question - whether there has been a breach of the provisions of this law, which are very precise in this regard. I think it increases the possibility that those who are dissatisfied, and I'm aware that there are often grounds for such dissatisfaction, can turn to one body, means there's another body to which they can address. As you know, it has the right to punish, to temporarily subtract frequencies, even permanently. If you want my honest opinion, in our media practice, we have such examples of violations of the basic standards of media behavior that I personally think -- although it's just my opinion and I can't know how these nine people will behave, how they'll decide -- that it can easily happen to some television, both local and others, who very easily and often break the most elementary rules of political representation, are not only punished but also permanently lose the frequency. So you'll have one more chance to complain and I think in that sense you should support this idea that all complaints can come before people who know something about the media and are essentially independent.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22977	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) The 27th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Adam Urosevic. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? Here's a word from MP Petar Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22978	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the MPs' Club of the Party of Serbian Unity suggested that in Article 27, in the first sentence of the words "six years" be replaced by the words "two years". The reason why we are proposing this is because we believe that at this point this election period for members of the council that should be elected to two years is adequate, and in order to ensure that these members are more common, that they are not in a position to try some abuses and to use powers for some negative purposes. At the same time, we suggest that attitudes 2 and 3 be deleted and attitude 4 become heading 2. Why do we suggest that Section 2 be deleted? For the sake of the public, I will read what is proposed in Section 2. "Extremely from article 1, in the first election, three members of the council are elected for two years, three members for four years, and three members for six years." So, the legislator himself immediately suggests that all members of the council should not be elected for the same period of time and that is why we suggest that this member be deleted. Especially interesting is the third position of this article, which I will also read, so I will explain why it is proposed to delete it. It reads: "The members of the first council, whose term of office lasts for two and four years, are determined and determined by pre-determining the Assembly on submitted proposals, the president of the Parliament of draws out authorised proposings whose candidates are proposed for elections for two and four years, respectively." Well, ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking the promoter if we should form a bookie here in the Serbian Parliament, so we bet which of the candidates will be elected for two and four years? On the other hand, there are many kinds of draws. Is it going to be like "bing" here -- that circle that's going to be written with names, so the president of the assembly is going to spin that circle, so whose name is that guitar, it's going to be chosen for two years, and the other one on four, etc. Let's be serious and pass a serious law. I'm asking the Proposer to adopt this proposal. And, regardless of whether they will adopt that the candidates are elected, that is, the members of the council are elected for two years, that this proposal be adopted by the Soviet Parliament group, and that we do not make this assembly a circus, or that the government does not propose such laws; so this is not that we are now playing "bingo" here in the Serbian Parliament. The members of the council are serious people and the question is whether to elect the highest quality people, if this proposal remains, to six years, or four years, or two. I think the proposal is quite involved and I ask you to vote in favour of this proposal by the Soviet Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22979	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? There is a word from MP Zoran Angelkovic, the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group. And what about the camps? )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22980	First, I heard Mr. Djindjic say there will be 40 camps next year. As a minister, I had only three camps and I think it was very important that it was 40 and in my time as minister. So much for the camps, since you asked. But let's get back to the law. Firstly, I must say that the legislator had probably had a good intention and I welcome the good intention to amend the members of the board during certain times, in order to maintain the continuity of the Agency's work. I don't think it's bad, on the contrary, I think it has one basis and need. I've been talking, and I think that's where we should look for a solution, that it's not determined by draw. What are the members of the council that are logical to change after two or four years; it is logical that those to whom the proposer has ceased to exist are changed. More specifically, the proponent is no longer the parliamentary majority. That's why I said it, and that's why I think the government should find the possibility to make an amendment out of all these amendments, by making that change actually happen from those no longer proposings who have a majority. So, the Vojvodina Assembly, the Executive Greater Vojvodina, the Serbian Government and the Serbian Parliament. Then it doesn't have to be two plus two, meaning that one-third is changing, but four candidates, those four council members change when their mandate ends, more specifically, when changes are made to the composition of those bodies, which were proposed by the Assembly. Otherwise, I don't think at all, and I'm absolutely sure of it, and there's no doubt about it at all, that the intention that this advice, to this extent or to the extent that it's likely to fix a media picture, but the way the council is chosen, for the reasons that I've been talking about, is going to question and doubt that it's going to be a participatory advice, whether or not we want it or not, by seeing from the proposal that only the parliamentary majority of the DOS will actually be privileged to determine what the proposal is going to be and what the choice of members of the council will be. That's the point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22981	The word is made by MP Vojislav Seselj, president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22982	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think making fun of our legal order is introducing lots into the decision-making process on status issues. We have a lot in political life, but as a marginal phenomenon, mostly when determining the order of parties on election lists. So, just in order, nothing changes that status. Instead of the alphabet order, there's a row of draws, which is more correct. We have a series of appearances on national television. I don't know about the third form of draw, except we had a choice of patriarchs by draw 12 years ago. I hope that church gets over it. The church introduced the withdrawal of the elected patriarchal candidate from the camel to prevent the state from mixing in the way that the communists had previously interfered in selecting the patriarch. I think he's gonna give it up. Here, when it comes to status issues, the lot is not allowed. It's a draw and it's too unserious. It makes a non-serious and political system. By what criteria is one two years, one four, one six member of the council - by being so determined? That's ridiculous. It will happen to be someone who is really very smart, influential, recognized intellectual, scientist, great name, and the lot says, for two years, and you will find someone from government organizations, who is known only for his hallowed on the streets of Belgrade, behind whom there is no work, no life achievement, well, he will be six years. Do you think, from a purely human perspective, that top intellectual who's been assigned to be a member of the council for two years to stand there to be a ficfir, who has no work behind him, no reputation, no influence, six years? I don't think that's right. That's why you are wrong about this provision on the different length of the mandate in the first composition of the agency. I have already warned you that this agency advice and this agency will last for you while your congregation majority lasts. You know yourself better than I know you and you know how long since your congregation majority is rocking. Then what are you messing with? Introduce clean principles if you want some law to outlive you. If you don't want to, know that all the laws that you've brought in this way under the "ho-hand" system will go along with you, and these things are completely clean. Here you should bear in mind that these elected members of the council, by nature things, should think about who chose them. He complains that we from the opposition, especially me from the SRS, are in advance suspicious of their moral qualities. Well, how come I don't doubt when it's under this law that only you who have a majority in the congregation are going to choose them, just the majority of the congregation. We do not participate in this choice, we do not have the opportunity to express our power proportionally in the congregation and in the composition of the council.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22983	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? There is a word from MP Ivan Andric, chairman of the Committee on Culture and Information.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22984	As far as the amendments are concerned, the Committee has rejected this amendment for several reasons. First of all, the different length of the term of office will allow for discontinuity to not be felt in the work of the council at the end of the term of office. So that's the basic reason. I don't see what's going on here. Simply, such an expert body that will make important decisions cannot, at some point, completely interrupt its work and then start working from the beginning. So it's one widely accepted method for something like that. As far as draws go, as much as you make fun of him here, it's just the most honest way. If we're smart enough to give everyone an equal chance before these people's election, even if it were to be introduced to decide after the election, I ask, who could be the one who could give himself the right to decide who's smarter, who's got more books behind them, or something like that? It's just that these are some things that are immeasurable. We mean that each of the proposings will have enough brains and have to propose the best. From our point of view, at this point, and especially at the moment before the election, all members of the council will be exactly the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22985	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 28 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There's a word from MP Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22986	I was in a dilemma, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with this Article 28, whether I should ask to delete this member in general, or just to delete point 1) of Article 1. This is about the termination of the term of office of a member of the council. First, it is understood that the mandate of a member of the council ends during the time he was elected, and it is unnecessary to stress it here again. You suffer from this disease of overbooking of the legal norm. Then, by solving the reasons provided for by this law -- that's already where the resolution is spoken of. It's a settlement before the end of the term of office, it's precisely formulated there. "By resigning" - that is to say, "in written form" - and that is to say in a certain way, but you continue to say" in which case the mandate of a member of the council ceases on the day of delivery of the resignation, in which the predetermined resignation does not produce a legal fact". I don't get this. What's an enveloped resignation in the legal system? Can not get folder: %s: %s It may be a product of the occult combinations, private agreements by a group of people, but to reverse the resignation, who does it. I knew he'd wake up kindness with you. What does that mean, an enveloped resignation? Someone resigns, seals it in an envelope and says, "Don't open it till I'm dead." Or -- don't open it until I've been relieved, or -- don't open it until my term's over. Look out, guys, it's a ridiculous norm. I'm just doing it in a cartoon way to end up here to convince you how ridiculous it is, how pointless it is. Nowhere in our legal system exists an enveloped resignation. The minister can, for example, come to the Prime Minister and say, "Here, I am resigning and you will consider it until then and then accept it or not accept it." So it expresses certain trust, but it's their private relationship, and it has nothing to do with the legal system. In the legal system, either a resignation has been made or it is not. There's no parole. And further, to make the irony bigger...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22987	Are you using the next three minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22988	Yeah, I can use it for the next three minutes, so I'm going to make a statement. It is said that the mandate of a member of the council ends with his death. And what do you think it was? It doesn't stop with death. Well, the same thing that makes no sense is the provision not to stop dying, it's a pointless provision to stop dying, and then that's understood. A dead man can't be a member of the council, can he? Look, I'm not saying this by accident, it's not funny, watch it, it's not your fault to put in practice like this, we have it in the National Assembly. It was introduced before this term, and I have to step on you from time to time. It was introduced to establish the end of the term of office because the MP died. Since no MP has died a long time ago, I can now speak openly of it without any particular piety, although I hold my drink permanently to every deceased MP. It's something that's meant to be, and it's funny to get into legal norms. Throw it out of the legal code and throw it out of everyone else. The moment a man dies, he is neither man nor messenger anymore. I'm trying to explain, and you're letting me know that nothing can be explained to you. I knew that you would laugh so much, so in the amendment, I only asked to delete item 1) of the attitude that is most senseless -- that the term of office ended over the time a member of the council was elected. Who can say that, if his time is up - his term is still up. It is not the National Assembly that can declare that her mandate continues even after the deadline on which she was elected. It is not a parliament to continue to function under conditions of war, as elections cannot be held. There is no such thing here, and it is only being found here, as it is found by the Constitutional Court judges, with some other authorities -- the mandate has expired, it is over, it is going to new elections, or, more cleverly, elections are scheduled sooner than the term of office.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22989	The word is made by Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Zarko Korać, representative of the promoter.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22990	Article 28(3) states that the pre-dated (certified) resignation does not produce a legal fact. It's another protection of a member of the agency's council. Because in this assembly, the parties are sitting and it is generally known that MPs have pre-converted resignations in order for the president of the parliamentary group, the party president, to be able to make those resignations, pre-converted, to take advantage. Of course, it's that party or party thing, it doesn't matter now. This is the result of one experience we have in Serbia, that unfortunately it was done, and we are here in advance warning someone who suggests someone, if they think they can hold it in their hands like this, blackmail him, that the law has taken away his right. We cannot know if the practice we unfortunately had in the Serbian Parliament can happen. And don't tell me, I was an MP in this assembly, that it wasn't there. We had cases to resign so that the MP would state, don't say the case, I was an MP when it happened, that that MP said - I never signed my resignation, that's something we were asked to do at the moment we got our mandates, to give ahead. So, in order for that not to happen, we warn the promoter in advance, because it is very important for him who he proposes to represent his views; therefore, by this law, something that is the result of our practice, we warn that it will simply not apply, that he will remain free, unbound to his promoter. I agree that this may seem excessive and perhaps this practice does not exist in some countries and some parliaments, but unfortunately experience shows and people here know, and some sitting in the hall have been MPs for 12 years, that in our practice it existed. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: Replica, misread my words. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22991	The basis for the replica? (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: he misread my words. No, I don't see a basis for replication, I'm sorry. The word has been issued by MP Zoran Angelkovic, an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group. You don't, it's in principle a second call, it's a little low-level.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22992	It's about experience; Mr. Vice President, if we wanted to talk about experiences, so there's no bad experience about what's respected by the law, there'd probably be no criticism about how to choose advice. Because when you talk about experiences and resignations, for example, We know that the Administrative Board of the Serbian Parliament does not even respect the view that resignation is something that the Administrative Committee only finds out and says - is no longer the MP who resigned or if it is about when someone is excluded from the political party, his term of office ends, and the Administrative Board should only establish and his mandate ends. If the Serbian Parliament, the assembly majority, DOS's majority does not respect it, then it will respect something else when it comes to the council, about the agency it is interested in how some media will function. If it doesn't work as an SPS and someone shuts it down because it doesn't suit him and keeps them in the Assembly, how he's going to respect some way of functioning that media advice. For these reasons, it is good for him to be attached to the promoter, especially when it comes to the congregation’s majority. So, this majority he's proposing right now. The issue of trust and mistrust - well, we can trust you but the experiences have been telling you in the last year and a half that we can't believe; instead of proposing really neutral people, you're proposing those NGOs that are actually associated with DOS members, whether G-17 plus or G-17 minus, it's not important, and that, in fact, through NGOs or through political organisations be representatives of the Serbian Parliament or the Vojvodina Assembly and thus provide some legitimacy that they are not representatives of political parties, which are essentially working in the interests of the Serbian government who are proposing them or the Serbian Parliament who are proposing them, specifically within the framework, in the interests of DOS. For these reasons, not only when it is provided for by this law, and the law should be provided for in the previous article, his mandate should be terminated when he proposes that he be suspended from office, which means the Assembly and the Government.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22993	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate being reported under this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 29 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22994	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I request that point 1) be deleted in my amendment, which says that a member of the council is authorised on a proposal from 20 MPs, if the disease is based on the findings of a competent medical institution, is unable to carry out the duties of a council member over a period of more than six months. Nowhere in our political system and in our legal order is the possibility of a member of the college body being resolved because of a disease. It's meant only for in-house organs, and it's in the state administration first of all. Let us start with the MPs; I hope that no one will dispute that the function of the MP is more important than the function of a member of the agency's council. People's MPs are chosen by the people and the MP can get sick the first day of the election and the whole term will be sick, on the deathbed. His MP group will not convince him to resign alone, will not exclude him from the party to resign automatically, and he can lay down his entire mandate in bed. It is extremely inhumane, incorrect, inhumane to resolve these functions, which should also be represented by honor, because he became ill during the duration of his function and because his illness lasts for six months. You must endure it by the end of the term of office, and if you wait for the next term, then think that only healthy people are proposed to these functions. It's the only solution. What does that mean? You must allow the possibility that for political reasons... It's not about party policy, because you're trying to declassify party politics here. The work on the agency's advice is politics, the agency's policy is conducted, a policy is being implemented on the development of the broadcasting strategy, and that is a kind of policy. Someone who doesn't agree with most people for six months can't come to the session without saying, "I'm sick, I can't." He may not come to the session for various reasons; and that is the attitude, not sitting down. You have demonstrated here your will to throw MPs out of parliament because they do not come to the session. It's not in any of the parliaments in the world. That couldn't happen here either, and you can. A moment ago, Zarko Korać spoke about the enveloped resignations and their non-acceptation. You see, there's no need to convert resignations now, because the law is clear. Whoever leaves the political party or is excluded from it automatically ends his term of office.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22995	You're using the next three minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22996	I can finish right now. However, there have been some cases earlier that some parties have had enveloped resignations. There's nothing more dishonest and immoral than when a man knowingly signs and converts his resignation, and then doesn't admit it. It's the most wicked man, the most immoral. So when it comes to that function, maybe it's a condition to get to work, accepts everything. When he's supposed to leave his post, he says I don't admit that resignation. I didn't recognize myself here, which I would recognize here, but I'm saying that these are the most dishonest and immoral people. The moment a man is signed, he should follow his signature and bear his conconsequences, whoever it is. He was here, Miroslav Dereta, there were various; in the Federal Assembly of Glamocans, etc.; you have them there, you will have DOS, you have them, and when Zarko Korać secededed from Vesna Pesic and instead of returning the mandate, he kept the mandate until the end, etc. It's other things, and it's a matter of morality, it's a matter of elemental human dignity, but if someone's enveloped their resignation, so they say his signature isn't valid, and you can say it really isn't valid, but is that man worth anything to you in the future? What is he? Moral wreck, signed something, and it says, "It's not my signature, it's changed my mind, and now I think different." He made him because he couldn't have become an MP otherwise. So, everything's fine when he becomes an MP, and then it's not okay. So, it's no good for the law enforcement institute. It's okay and it's cleared up about the MPs, because it's not necessary anymore. If the MP won't listen to his party and resign himself, she can rule him out if she opposes her programme, politics, violates her reputation. However, when you throw MPs from foreign parties out of parliament, it is against the constitution, against the law, etc. Or when you don't recognize the law. They deserve socialists all the things that happen to them. They've taken our parliamentary mandates.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22997	People's MP, get back on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22998	I'll be right there. They created Glamocan, Miroslava Deretta, etc. They all deserve it, but what you're doing to them, we're not judging us because we're sorry for the Socialists, but because you're not acting in accordance with the law, with the Constitution, with elementary legal principles. You are the power, you are the majority, and we attack you for breaking the law, and we do not forget them because they have done so before.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-07-10-0.u22999	Dear ladies and gentlemen, we will continue our work tomorrow at 10.00 p.m.
