ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-11-0.u22009	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the Second Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, the session is attended by 88 MPs. Please insert identification cards into your MPs to determine the quorum. I find that, according to Article 82(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, there is a quorum for work, since the electronic system has established that at least one third of the members of the National Assembly, or 84 MPs, are present. So there's a quorum to work with. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending today's work by the following MPs: Mirko Rosic, Vlasimir Budimovic, Sima Radulović, Momir Radoic, Slobodan Pavlovic, Joca Arsic and Predrag Stojanovic. On the morning part of the work, Petar Misic will be late, and Parliament MP Milorad Stanulov will be absent throughout the afternoon work. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. Also, according to members 83 and 84. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that the president of the National Assembly, Mrs Natasa Micic, invited representatives of the Centre for Free Elections and Democracy, the People's Movement of the Resistance and the National Democratic Institute to this session. I welcome the guests present. We move to the fourth item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Local Elections after we have conducted a search of the draft law in principle, pursuant to Article 136(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Joca Arsic and Rade Bajic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? No, I don't. ( b) Does any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) We are moving on to the debate on the next amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Do any of the authorized participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. We continue to discuss the next amendment. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Joca Arsic and Hranislav Peric. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? The word has been given by the People's MP, Hranislav Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-11-0.u22010	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, me and my colleague Joca Arsic submitted an amendment to Article 7 and asked that the candidate on the list should have a six-month residence before the list is submitted. I don't think it's put here in law and there's going to be a lot of problems on the ground, that it's going to be manipulated, that it's going to go from one election unit to another; it means - today they can go from another municipality to the candidates, and tomorrow they have the right to go to the candidate list. That's why we've made it take at least six months for the candidate to have a place in the constituency of the constituency to have the right to participate in the lists.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-11-0.u22011	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic, president of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-11-0.u22012	Dear Presidency, fellow MPs, as you have heard, two of our colleagues have submitted an amendment to Article 7. The law on local elections, with the motivation to add "at least six months before the election is called" in Article 7(2) after the term "inhabitation". The other day, speaking of this law, I mentioned the possibility of abuse of this member in a very specific situation. counterpart Peric mentioned and spoke about the general application and the need for someone who has not been inhabited in the municipality, since the municipality is now an entire electoral unit, can hardly be a candidate in the place of resettlement. Of course, his right depends on the political will of the party representing him and there is someone who decides whether to put the candidate in that position or not. We felt that this provision should stand, because, once again, there is the possibility of his abuse in practice. On behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I also mentioned an example of these three municipalities in southern Serbia and the upcoming elections and, according to the information we received, of the possible relocation of members of one ethnic community, in this case of Albanians, to the area of the second municipality, to change the structure, to increase the number of voters; because, after the change of that electoral body, of course, in the proportional electoral system proposed by the Government, this changed composition of the population, i.e. the increase in the number of ethnic communities at the expense of the other, could lead to an increase in the number of councils in the municipality, with all of those consequences that could eventually result in voting only on the ethnic principle. Of course, I hope this isn't gonna happen, but we're pointing to one real possibility of abuse of that. For this reason, our MPs have proposed this amendment, with the expectation of acceptance.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-11-0.u22013	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, we move on to the debate on the next amendment. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bratoljub Janačković, Zoran Angelkovic, Ljubodrag Grbić, Sinisa Mitrović, Nebojsa Lekovic, Ružica Veljović, Milorad Stanulov, Boško Ničić and Slobodan Radulović. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone in the name of the applicant of the amendment want a word? I find that, on behalf of the applicants of the amendment, the amendment to Article 8 has been withdrawn and ceases to be the subject of discussion and decision-making in voting days. Members of the 9th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Nebojsa Jovic and Golub Rajic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The word wants, on behalf of the amendment's applicants, MP Nebojsa Jovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-11-0.u22014	Dear People's MPs, I submitted the SPS amendment to Article 9, one of the members that regulates the basic principles of the Law on Local Elections. The member is told that elections for the People's Committees and the presidents of the municipalities are called by the National Assembly president, and the decision to call elections determines the day of elections, as well as the day the deadlines for doing the electoral actions begin. The government has suggested that from the election day to the election day, it cannot last less than 30 days or more than 60 days. As I said, on behalf of the SPS, I suggested that Article 9's position be changed and that it reads, "From election day to election day to election day can't last less than 45 days, not more than 75 days." Taking into account the importance of carrying out local elections and the necessary activities to be followed, the proposed maximum period of 30 days is insufficient. The amendment therefore proposes that the shortest deadline from the vote to the election day be 45 days. The amendment also proposes that the maximum deadline from the election schedule to the election day be 75 days. In the current law, this deadline has been set for 60 days, so we have now proposed a compromise solution. The amendment proposes a mid-term in relation to the current situation and the government's proposal. Its acceptance will recognise the need for more effective implementation of electoral activities and elections, but not to the detriment of achieving the basic essence of a normal election campaign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-11-0.u22015	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic, president of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-11-0.u22016	Dear Presidency, fellow Members of Parliament, I think this amendment is very involved, as it speaks of the appointment of this joint authorised member of the electoral authority and speaks of the need for two or more proposings to have more than two-thirds of the committee candidates in common, they have a representative in the electoral commission. This on the appearance of a formal question may have one of its very practical consequences. If an election list, or anyone who can represent the electoral list, is prescribed a condition that there must be at least two-thirds of the candidates, then it would be logical that those electoral lists that perform together also have two-thirds of the candidates at the level of the entire constituency so that they can have their own representative. And why am I saying this - this seemingly formal condition can later be turned into one, let me say, a daunting circumstance for the work of the electoral commission, because if the electoral commission and election committees accept this proposal that stands in the law, elections lists that have one, two candidates, and two election lists of five candidates, and the entire constituency, for example. 60 candidates, they can have their representatives in the electoral bodies and thus, later, influence the way and decision of the electoral commission with their numbers. The role of his former counterparts is that only those political factors that represent real power in the municipality and represent a sufficient number of voters can decide in the election bodies, and that those political forces, electoral lists or groups of citizens who propose candidates who do not have that political power, are objectively not given the opportunity to participate in election commissions and election bodies, in a way that would not be appropriate to their political strength. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-11-0.u22017	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, we move on to the debate on the amendment to Article 13. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Rajko Baralic and Dusan Cvetkovic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? The word is from MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-11-0.u22018	Dear Mrs Comic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SPS, with Mr Dusan Cvetkovic, I have submitted an amendment relating to the fourth position of the proposed member 13. The amendment proposes that the right to designate a joint authorised member to work in the electoral enforcement body have two or more applicants, provided that they have jointly proposed at least two-thirds of the candidates, of the total number of committees to be elected. It makes sense what we suggested, though, of course, there are different opinions. The committee of directors said this amendment is unnecessary. That's not an argument we can accept. In this way, it is ensured that no one can play with membership in the electoral bodies and that there are two or three candidates on the committee lists. So, our proposal goes, first of all, to the fact that the number and the proposings and applicants of the electoral lists and to bring the whole procedure into line with the basic principles that whoever has more candidates on the election list has even more right to exercise control and control over the conduct of the electoral procedure. That's the essence of the amendment. Anything else, of course, can be a political story. At this point, I'm just hanging on to this. I propose, ladies and gentlemen, that you accept this amendment, because it really makes sense, and because it regulates and leads to correlation between the candidate, the size of the electoral list and the political power of the promoter in a better and more meaningful way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-11-0.u22019	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. ) If not, we move on to the debate on the amendment to Article 14. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Todorovic and Hranislav Peric. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment come forward for a word? The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-11-0.u22020	Ladies and gentlemen, the essence of my amendment is directly related to the previous amendment to Article 13. Therefore, the essence of my amendment is that Article 14(1) changes and reads: "The election committee in permanent composition shall be composed of the president and at least six members appointed by the Assembly of the local self-government unit and, in the extended composition, by one authorised representative of the applicants of the electoral list, who, on their own or together, have proposed at least two-thirds of the total number of candidates elected." As you can see, the essence of such an amendment is to prevent the demarcation of those parties or groups that propose less than the intended number of candidates, so it is proposed that, therefore, an authorised representative of the electoral list, which does not have to individually propose two-thirds of the total number of candidates elected, can enter into the electoral committee, but if they collectively cross that minimum and if they want to determine a common member. I'll remind you of situations that can happen hypothetically in the next election. For example, for June 16th, additional elections are scheduled in the election unit 51, in Bistric Rozana, in Piroth, where it is already evident that some of the smaller parties are going out on their own. Let's say, the Democratic Alternative, the SP or some other party, such as DSS, Mr Panajotovic, and with this, it can happen that fewer parties cannot collect two-thirds of the parliamentary candidates, so that, of course, there can be hypothetically, their association and submission of the common list. Therefore, because of the prevention and demeaning or the situation for these political parties to be without their representatives in the extended composition of the electoral commission, we have proposed to adopt such an amendment, which allows these political parties or groups to gain one seat in the extended composition of the electoral commission at local level. Unfortunately, the government has not accepted such an amendment. We think that this is an extremely good amendment and that this is in line with democratic principles that would allow democratic rights to smaller parties that can join together to have their representatives in the electoral commission. And thanks to the new Rules of Procedure, you will not have enough concentration to decide on the essence of this amendment in a few days when it is due in the voting day, as the new rules of procedure are intended to decide on the amendment itself. But I appeal to the awareness of all of you who advocate, even in principle, to achieve the principle of democracy and the wider freedom of smaller political groups, to accept this amendment, in order to even hypothetically, and in reality, create a broader democratic basis for the work of smaller parties and political entities on our political scene. That is why I invite you to vote in favour of this amendment in a day or two or three, when there is a vote on these amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-11-0.u22021	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Vukosav Tomašević, Vladimir Dobrosavljevic and Bojana Alexic submitted to the 14th amendment. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legal, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Members of the 16th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Toma Busetic and Ljubisa Maravic. The government and the judiciary and administration committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Do any of the applicants of the amendment want a word? Here's a word from the People's Messenger, Tom Bushetic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-11-0.u22022	Dear fellow MPs, the government has proposed in the second position of this member that the election committee in constant formation be made up of the president and at least four members. Our proposal, namely the parliamentary group's proposal, is "The Bilateral Committee, which consists of the president and at least two members," and given that, in addition to the election committee, according to the proposal of the Government of Serbia, it means that with the president and four members, it will be a substitute, that it is already a dozen people in the polling post, and that if we take into account the fact that a large number of political parties, who will participate in the upcoming elections, will have their own representatives, we may be in a position to have 20 and 30 members of the electoral committee in the polling post, regardless of whether they are members of a permanent assembly or of those other members who go ahead of political parties. Even in conditions where the elections take place in the city's electoral units, where conditions are far better, where we have schools, local offices, that's a very large number of members on the election board. Therefore, this reduction should be carried out, that the permanent composition has a president and two members, and, of course, analogous to that - the deputy would be the same, so he would be the deputy president and two deputy members. It is even worse if we are talking about local communities or election units in rural areas. For example, in municipalities such as Jagodina, or in the municipality of Rekovac, there are villages with 30 or 40 voters; and for these villages, election committees and elections must be organised in these polling stations. That is why we are coming to an absurd situation that there will be more members of the election board in these villages than there will be voters. I believe that this proposal to reduce the number of members of the permanent composition is very involved and I think you might be able to accept it. I would also take advantage of the opportunity, and I am sorry to say that there is no author, Mr Vladan Batic, who gives great logistics for the upcoming "false" congress of the SPS, to say - since he gives such great logistics it would be logical to choose him as co-chair with Banet Ivkovic at that congress.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-11-0.u22023	I remind the MP that he is obliged to speak on the subject of the agenda. For non-compliance with the rules of procedure, sanctions are subject to sanctions. Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran D. Nikolic and Djura Lazic. The government and the judiciary and administration committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Do any of the applicants of the amendment want a word? Here's a word from the People's MP Đura Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-11-0.u22024	On behalf of the SPS, we have submitted an amendment to Article 18, which we propose to remove the remaining part of the text in section 1 and 2 of the same article behind the word "candidate". Why are we suggesting this? We think it's more rational. We believe that the more adequate solution for a candidate is to collect 30 signatures of voters, which is both logical and normal. This solution is also applied to candidates for committees, who propose specifically or jointly political parties, coalitions and other political organisations, as well as candidates proposed by groups of citizens. The section we propose to delete provides that there are at least 200 signatures, if it is a proportional system. When parties propose candidates, we find it more logical for each candidate to propose 30 signatures and delete this minimum of 200 signatures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-11-0.u22025	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? Yeah. ) The speech is attended by MP Zarko Obradovic, president of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-11-0.u22026	Dear Presidency, fellow MPs, counterparts Nikolic and Djura Lazic have proposed this amendment for a simple reason so that, I say, the relevant political entities at the municipal level can show, if you will, their relevance in that electoral body; that through the signatures and see how many candidates can be proposed, because the number of candidates who propose at the level of the electoral unit has other consequences, and related to the joint proposing, or representatives of the electoral bodies, in the electoral committee, and many other issues related to the conduct of the elections. We felt that if 30 signatures were proposed for one candidate, it would be logical to provide so many signatures for each of the next candidates. Of course, every political party, electoral list, coalition, in line with its political strength, will propose as many candidates as it can collect signatures. I think that by laying down 200 signatures for the entire election list, it covers almost seven candidates on average; and you know, it seems to me under the Law on Local Self-Government, the number of councilors at the municipal level is set from 20 to 50, in the cities of 75, and in the city of Belgrade a little bit more. I'm saying this because I think this amendment is absolutely meaningful and gives the possibility, of course, that a political entity, an electoral coalition, as many candidates as are collecting so many signatures, that it is the basis for some other rights that gives this law. For that reason, we have suggested that 30 signatures be collected for each candidate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-11-0.u22027	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. We continue the discussion in detail. Member of the 18th Amendment with correction was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran D. Nikolic and Djura Lazic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Đura Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-11-0.u22028	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, for this article, we believe that the amendment that we have submitted should be accepted, as we propose that a new position should be added in Article 19 after Article 1, which reads: "The electoral list may be accepted if there are at least two-thirds of the candidates for the committee of the number foreseen for the assembly of the local self-government unit". Why did we propose this amendment? For practical reasons, and to improve the functioning of the local self-government unit. The solutions provided for by the Proposal for a Law on Local Elections allow small-party councils to be found in the assembly, which can greatly prevent the formation of the congregation's majority and slow down the work of the municipality's assembly and local self-government in general. We propose by amendment that each applicant of the list must have at least two-thirds of the number foreseen for the assembly of the municipality. In this way, candidates from those parties, coalitions, or groups of citizens who enjoy the most trust among voters would find themselves in the congregations. In this way, we would concentrate party committees that have the highest confidence in citizens and allow for better functioning of the local self-government unit. If this solution is left, which is proposed in this bill, I think the election of small party committees would only complicate the functioning of local self-government; so I would like to urge you to accept this proposal in order to better function the units of local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-11-0.u22029	Anybody else answer for a word? Yeah. ) The word is attended by MP Zoran Angelkovic, authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-11-0.u22030	Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, we've otherwise, and of course we're now in favour of the majority electoral system. But even when it is a majority electoral system, it is logical that you have representatives of displaced places, regardless of political belonging and whether they belong to a political party, as a group of citizens. If it is defined in this law to abolish the majority electoral system and propose a proportionate electoral system, then it is logical to propose and to concentrate the electoral body according to appropriate political orientation, political membership. If an appropriate concentration is already proposed in this way, then the law must be consistent and this amendment is, of course, related to the amendment to the previous article, where the number of voters is discussed. If a previous amendment on the number of voters' signatures on the previous member is not accepted, where it is necessary for one committee candidate to have 30 signatures, not a total of 200 - means, if 50 are committee members, then 1,500 signatures - then it is likely that this amendment would be discussed when it comes to two-thirds of the list. If there are 50 candidates, 50 council members in one municipality, imagine now that someone is proposing one, two, or three candidates; they are first simply devising the electoral process; and second, in no way can they influence the functioning of the municipality. For these reasons, it is necessary to set a limit below which the electoral list cannot be proposed; whether two-thirds of us are in favour, can be less if the government accepts it, but it is necessary that there is a limit; that these electoral lists are not designed, because then we are literally going back to the majority electoral system, which we are -- yes, but only on condition that it is consistent and that it is as a whole. For these reasons, we propose that this amendment be accepted or that the Government bring it in line with the whole text.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-11-0.u22031	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. We continue the debate. National MPs Olgica Kircanski, Rodoljub Sabic and Meso Omerovic together submitted an amendment suggesting that a new member of 19a be added after article 19a. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Do any of the applicants of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Olga Kircanski.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-11-0.u22032	The Honorable Presidency, honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament, has had enough words on the subject of this and the amendment almost in the same text submitted by the Government during the principle debate. I'd just like to keep your attention for a moment to remind you that this is an amendment that we shouldn't go over so easily and ask you once again to support it, either our, any amendment to the government, which speaks in the same direction, or corrects this electoral law in the same direction. We agreed here that the equality of citizens in rights and responsibilities, regardless of gender, guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia; but the principle guarantee of equality of citizens given the gender in terms of conditions, we agreed here, the existence of practical discrimination is not enough; in addition, the data is no doubt that, despite the fact that more than 50% of women are represented in the electoral body, they are represented in our municipal congregations with just over 6%, and in our republican population with everything around 11%. This situation, such a practical discrimination, requires taking measures of affirmative action to eliminate this inequality. Taking such affirmative measures to eliminate discrimination is foreseen by a series, by our country signed, international contracts and documents and this introduction of a safeguard quota into this electoral law is only one such measure, which removes this gender inequality. Gender inequality exists in all areas of our social life, especially in politics. This problem is causing special attention in all democratic societies. I hope that you will support this amendment and that in this way, at least in part, we will encourage and stimulate and assist greater participation, or more equal participation of both genders and their representation on the electoral lists, and thus contribute to both genders being equally represented in the bodies of the likes of the local, local, or republican level.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-11-0.u22033	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 20 of the amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The National MPs Bratoljub Janacković, Zoran Angelkovic, Ljubodrag Grbić, Sinisa Mitrović, Nebojsa Lekovic, Ružica Veljović, Milorad Stanulov, Boško Ničić and Slobodan Radulović submitted the 20th amendment together. I find that, on behalf of the applicants, the amendment to Article 20 has been withdrawn from the procedure and ceases to be the subject of debate and later decision-making in particular. National MP Zivko Selakovic withdrew the amendment to Article 23, which ceases to be the subject of discussion in particular. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Radojko Petrovic and Sreten Mitrovica. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. The word has a folk MP, Radojko Petric.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-11-0.u22034	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, in Article 23, has rightly been prescribed that the voter can support the electoral list by his own signature, however, the government's proposal does not define what happens when the voter supports several electoral lists. For this reason, together with MP Sreten Mitrovica, on behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to supplement the member. We propose that a provision be put in place that, if the voter supported several electoral lists by his own signature, as the current sees as the signature on the electoral list as the earliest submitted to the electoral commission. This question must not remain unscheduled, which in practice often arises. Otherwise, different interpretations and procedures by municipal electoral commissions would occur. In a municipality, they would declare the voter's signatures invalid on each election list. Somewhere they'd recognize the signature on the list that was filed earlier, and somewhere they'd recognize the signature on the list that's first in alphabetical order, etc. In order to remove any doubt and uncertainty, the amendment should be accepted, as it resolves this issue in a simple and correct manner. The government replied not to accept the amendment because the solution proposed in it was allegedly incorrect. Furthermore, it states that the solution to this problem should be left to the Electoral Commission. It's simple to wonder if any of the government's professional services are reading the amendments. What is imprecise if it is said that if the voter supported several electoral lists, as a valid signature, means support, it will be considered as the signature on that election list that was most recently submitted to the electoral commission. It is an incorrect solution proposed by the government and it is illogical to avoid making it precise by law, but it is left to municipal electoral commissions, from case to case and from municipality to case, to resolve the issue. It is really easy to see how important it is for the amendment to be accepted and for this issue to be regulated by law. I would like to remind you that in Article 134(4) of the current Law on Local Self-Government, on the election of the Assembly Committee, this issue has been regulated in the same way as proposed by the amendment, except that the signature and the support concerned a concrete candidate, and now the signature refers to a specific electoral list. I quote that provision from Article 4, "If the voter has signed a proposal for several proposed candidates, it will be considered valid on the proposal submitted earlier to the municipal electoral commission". I hope that this argument gives a complete argument, which is why the amendment should be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-11-0.u22035	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? The word is from MP Zoran Angelkovic, the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-11-0.u22036	Of course, this amendment and its adoption are not about the needs of larger, serious political parties, because bigger and more serious political parties will not make sure that they have exactly as many signatures as planned; well, if 200 are foreseen, they will certainly have 300 etc. They will not be in a position to be damaged if someone behaves unseriously, so sign on several electoral lists and thus support these election lists. Then small political parties or groups of citizens who are trying to secure the electoral list will be damaged and enter the election match on the territory of a local self-government. In order to protect these small political parties or, better say, groups of citizens who want to run and create their electoral list, it is necessary that those who sign actually know that the first signature that gives is valid and everything else is not valid. Otherwise, a dozen of those who will sign more election lists of these small political parties or groups of citizens can be organised, and those groups will in fact be left without verification of the electoral list. For these reasons, it is logical that whoever signed it has in mind that where he first signed it is valid, and where he signed it, he deliberately challenged it, or tried to challenge it, that the election list would not pass. Someone here must be protected or someone must be in advance, if I may say so, sanctioned for their unserious behavior compared to the election list. If someone needs to be sanctioned, then it's the other one who's agreed to sign an election list, and when it comes to the one who signed it, he needs to know that his signature will be valid on the first election list that's been submitted.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-11-0.u22037	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Jankovic and Rajko Baralic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is from MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-11-0.u22038	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia, Mr. Milan Jankovic and I have submitted an amendment to Article 25, more specifically to the 3rd position of this member; "When the electoral commission finds that the electoral list contains shortcomings which are an obstacle to the declaration of the electoral list, in accordance with this law, it will take, within 24 hours of receiving the electoral list, the conclusion requiring the voter to decide that no later than 48 hours from the time of delivery of the conclusion to remove the gap. This conclusion will at the same time point to the applicant of the electoral list for actions to be carried out in order to remove deficiencies. "Our amendment refers to the following. In Article 25, paragraph 3, following the wording of the "election list", the words "are not removed or" are deleted because, according to the previous position, it is necessary to remove the lacks of the electoral list in general within the deadline provided. This amendment improves the conditional regularity of the electoral procedure, i.e. the start of the electoral procedure and what follows. If it remained as proposed by the legislator, there would be a greater possibility that the authorities implementing the elections would be given discretionary rights in a sphere where there is no reason or place for these rights. That is why I ask the Members of Parliament to accept this amendment. It contributes to better positioning of the authorities that conduct elections in relation to the law, i.e. they can act more Decidently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-11-0.u22039	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. If not, we continue the debate. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 26 of the amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MPs Vukosav Tomaševic, Vladimir Dobrosavljevic and Bojana Aleksic submitted the 26th amendment together. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Do any of the authorized participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) Amendment applicants are not present. We're continuing the debate. National MP Vojislav Seselj submitted to the amendment of the 33rd. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Do any of the authorized participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. We continue the debate. The 38th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vladimir Garčević and Rade Bajic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is submitted by the amendment, MP Rada Bajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-11-0.u22040	Dear People's MPs, on behalf of the SPS, Vlad Garcevic and I have tabled an amendment to Article 38 to replace the number "8" with the number "12". Namely, what's this about? We went to a compromise solution, because so far it has been within 18 hours of the voter's closure, the voter's board delivers the results of the vote and all documents to the electoral commission. The government proposed eight hours in its proposal. All of you are witnesses that in some areas, in suburban settlements, including the city, sometimes you can't deliver material from the polling station for eight hours -- due to lack of means of transport, because of the slow work of commissions, which is a large job; especially in rural areas or mountain areas where there is a very large distance from the election commission's place, especially in unfavourable climate conditions. Therefore, we propose that the eight-hour deadline, when the election committee is obliged to submit documentation and voting results, be extended to 12. I think that amendment is completely correct and regular and should be accepted as such. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-11-0.u22041	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. We continue the debate. Members of the 39th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Djura Lazic and Dragan Jovanovic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Đura Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-11-0.u22042	Dear Presidency, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, with counterpart Dragan Jovanovic on behalf of the SPS parliamentary club, I have proposed an amendment to the 39th proposed law. With this amendment, we propose to replace the number "24" with the number "36". Why? In Article 39, the government proposed that within 24 hours of the voter's closure, the electoral commission must determine the results of voting in polling stations, the total number of voters included in the voter list, the number of voters who voted in polling stations, the number of voters who voted outside the polling station, the total number of eligible ballots, the total number of invalid and valid ballots, the number of votes cast for each election list and, ultimately, to carry out the schedule of parliamentary mandates between the different election lists. It is obvious that, because of the volume of these jobs and the precise determination of all facts, the electoral commission cannot, in our opinion, finish within 24 hours of the voter's closure. The prescribed deadline in the current law was 48 hours. With the amendment, we propose that the deadline be reduced to 36 hours and we think it is a viable time limit for the electoral commission, with full engagement, to do all the prescribed tasks. I would also like to add - many municipalities are dissociated and have remote villages, it takes time for these election committees to count their votes, until these materials arrive; I would especially like to pay attention to voters who vote outside the polling station and the time it takes for these ballots to arrive. I think it's unrealistic that within 24 hours all these affairs can be done by the electoral commission. That is why we propose that this deadline be extended a little bit, to allow the electoral commission to do its job in a quality way. Maybe someone will say -- well, here, now the technique has progressed, there are computers and so on. It's all right. That's what happened before. I stress, as long as voters' ballots arrive from where voters vote outside the polling station, from distant places, and while all of this is counted and calculated, I think it's 24 hours short for the electoral commission and that it would be good, because of the more effective work of the commission, more precisely, to extend that deadline to 36 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-11-0.u22043	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. We continue the debate. National MP Zoran Cirkovic submitted to the 40th amendment. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The amendmentr wants a word. The word has been made by MP Zoran Ćirkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-11-0.u22044	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the principle debate, I said that I intervened in amendment to those members of the law that treat electoral matter. The essence of this law is the method introduced in the selection of committees, which is that of Hayr-Nimayer. I don't know if these Mrs. Hayr and Nimeer are mathematicians, I doubt it; the legislator may have written those words about most of the fraction, but that's actually going to be Article 41. Here in article 40 the same text remained, just intervened by introducing the size of Li and Mi. The size of Li is the number of votes received by the respective electoral list, and the size of My is the number of mandates belonging to the electoral list by applying the formula. Later in fact, we are introducing the formula, so we needed to introduce these sizes to the previous member. In Section 4, the last five words are deleted, which means that the whole attitude remains integrally unchanged, except for the last five words. So the first part is quite fine, and the whole view is that the election lists that received at least 3% of the total number of valid ballots are participating. I really don't know what bothered the board, because the legislator wrote the number of voters who voted. When we say - voter votes that voted, the sum of votes goes to those ballots that are invalid, because these people have expressed their electoral will. However, they voted by going to the polls, but they did not support any election lists. But since these votes do not participate in the mandate distribution, it is perfectly logical that they are eliminated in a given censorship. If the 3% census applies to all votes, to all voters who voted, then it's bigger. Why? Because the sum of those who came out is larger than the amount of valid ballots. Of course, that difference will not be particularly great. Please, Mr. Minister, when you're done with the sieve, let me know. Mr. Minister was not the government's authorized representative at the last session when we discussed this law in principle. I admit that I went out, too, but those who followed Mr. Covic's statement carefully told me that Mr. Covic supported my amendment. For this reason, I have lived in a mild delusion that the judicial committee accepted this amendment later, following the intervention of the government's authorised representative. Unfortunately, he didn't do it. That is why I am taking advantage of the opportunity that the government's authorised representative is present, in hopes that he agrees with Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Covic, that this amendment be accepted, for the simple reason that he only explains the text and does not mind; he is only useful. This amendment is not at all the fruit of any partying, and no MP group has any reason not to accept this. This is a mild intervention in which the text is only illustrated, so that it becomes clearer. Covic said he would suggest to the board that he accept it. Look at the record. There are witnesses who can confirm that.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-11-0.u22045	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. We continue the debate. National MP Dragan Markovic submitted to the 40th amendment. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is submitted by the amendment, MP Dragan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-11-0.u22046	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the right to tell you, I'm not used to talking about where the little rally is, because when I go to the store, 150 people gather to hear something smart; but what I will do is your Rules of Procedure that you brought in a few days ago says it's enough and that 84 people are in this room. But, look, even that 84 people don't listen to the proposed amendments. Mr. Zarko came out, his amendment was on Article 5, and he discussed and talked about the amendment to Article 18. It's a miracle. No one's warning him, no one's warning him. No one's warning him. No one's warning him. (President: National MP Zarko Obradovic discussed the amendment to Article 14.) Take a stenogram and take a look. Okay, let me move on to my amendment. I suggested that the census be 5% instead of 3%. Why? Ladies and gentlemen - to avoid small, small parties that are in DOS, because because of these small parties, a lot of criminal laws have been passed in this assembly. If this amendment had been accepted, Mr. Vesenov would never have entered this assembly, because Mr. Vesenov has so far not done what his portfolio requires of him, which is that the price of agricultural products is normal, that he does not say 20 days before harvesting that the price of cereals will be 8 dinars, and forgets that Minister Djelic said that inflation in the past year is 40%. If it's 40%, and the price of grain last year was 7 dinars, it means that this year the price of cereals should be 9.80 dinars. That's what Mr. Minister of Agriculture forgets. In addition to not thinking about agricultural producers, it directly causes damage to agricultural producers because it goes to hunt and tread grain at night. (President: I ask the MP to speak on the subject of the agenda. I'm talking about censorship, and I'm talking about some parties that could never win that censorship. If the people in the elections took care of small parties, in Kragujevac, for example, one small party would never get a 5% censorship or 3%, or maybe 0.03, because that small party that has power in this country bought 5,000 "pejoa" from abroad, imported into Serbia instead of taking cars from the flag to fill the budget, to make workers well. Ladies and gentlemen, the cops don't need luxury. They're looking for good wages, they're going to drive and they're going to drive to The Hague, but they're looking for good wages and they're not going to be sent to The Hague. That's what they're looking for, because they didn't deserve it. So that party wouldn't win even 0.00001%. (President: I ask the MP to return to the subject of the amendment. Please listen. If local elections were to come out and health care would decide who to vote for, it would never vote for some parties or even for these big ones, because we don't have a health minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the Emergency Centre in Belgrade, the Clinical Center, or the Ortoped Center, where help is needed, where resources are needed to meet sick people, do not have it in hospitals. Doctors say the same thing -- why we don't have a health minister, when these local elections are going to be, so let's see how much they're going to get the censorship, and we also don't care about the big salaries, but it's important that you create certain conditions for us so that we can examine our patients properly. If we were local elections tomorrow, we'd never win 3% of small parties, not even the big ones, because those big ones have big blame, too. There's a store, and when you don't want something, then they offer you a function, you accept and vote some law. Whoever loses there loses Serbs from Cosmet. Nobody cares about them, they voted for you. Laugh at you DOS, laugh. You not only take care of them here in Belgrade, but don't go to Cosmet. Here, Mr. Batic says he's leaving, and I didn't hear it and I saw it. I know Covic is leaving, because he keeps saying he's leaving, but he doesn't solve anything. We all expect when he'll solve that problem. Ladies and gentlemen, those Serbs from Cosmeta will never vote... (President: People's Parliament, on three grounds you are in violation of the Rules of Procedure: do not speak about the subject of the agenda, express your views regarding decisions from other persons' lives and exceed the time set for the amendment. I'm talking about the subject, but it doesn't matter, this new Rules of Procedure is a cadiya, he can send you to prison right away, no witnesses. Today we are discussing a very important topic, about amendments. Who knows when you DOS will put it to a vote and if anyone will remember this amendment of mine and what I was going to say. But I'll tell you how to remember it -- that this amendment is a rescue to eliminate these little parties and let's call it Apollo 18, because there's Apollo 9, it's a circus, and Apollo 18 is called this amendment, because DOS has 18 parties.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-11-0.u22047	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. We continue the debate. National MPs Zarko Obradovic and Sreten Mitrovica submitted together to the 40th amendment. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is submitted by the amendment, MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-11-0.u22048	The Honorable Presidency, fellow MPs, sees the restrictive character of this Rules of Procedure. The question is whether anyone listens to anyone in the Assembly Hall, but I am convinced that my colleague Markovic did not listen to me, because if he had listened to me, he would have heard me talk about an amendment to article 13 of this bill. With my colleague, Mitrovica, I have submitted an amendment to Article 40 of this proposal for a law, which refers to the number of votes required for the allocation of the mandate, the number of votes from the total number of voters who voted. Namely, the amendment has two parts -- one refers to a political party, and the other to political parties or electoral coalitions. In our opinion, the legislator identified a very low censorship for participation in the allocation of mandates. Such a low censorship could, in our opinion, lead to excessive fragmentation of the Assembly, make it difficult for the logical formation of the congregation's majority, thus objectively questioning and functioning of the entire local self-government. We believe that censorship of 5% is more appropriate, because in the municipal parliament there are those political groups that enjoy and relevant support in the electoral body. The second part of this amendment refers to common lists. We have suggested that the election lists of the party coalition, in order to participate in the allocation of mandates, must receive at least 6% of the total number of voters who voted. Why did we propose this - small parties and groups of citizens who are objectively without any significant influence in the electoral body at the level of the electoral unit to pre-election coalitions can objectively play the essence of this law, i.e. the conditions envisaged. The party's pre-election coalitions are objectively brought into a privileged position, as several independent political entities, united, must meet the same censorship as those of the political parties who perform independently. So they can participate in the mandate. Experiences so far, related to the level of the electoral censorship, say that after the election, when it comes to these joint lists of coalitions and several small parties, there are conflicts and the breakup of these coalitions, first of all, over the allocation of mandates, then on the laying of rights to coalitions, the predications that one, the second or third, depending on how many they are, are made available by the electoral will of citizens, etc. All this objectively can affect the functioning of local self-government in general. The result afterwards is that citizens suffer because of the blockade of these institutions, because they are not in a position to exercise their rights and meet their needs at the level of local self-government. That is why my colleague Mitrovic and I felt it would be necessary for the coalition lists to win the number of votes in double the amount of the bill envisioned by the electoral census in order to participate in the allocation of mandates for the committees. In this way, coalitions and political parties and groups of citizens acting on their own in the elections would be equated, at the most important stage, which is the phase of the mandate allocation. We also believe that this would remove both non-principle and illogical pre-election coalitions from parties that do not enjoy a more significant rating among citizens. voters, and thus conditions would be created to demonstrate the political will of citizens as clearly as possible, and of course, in the elections, or in the Assembly, following the allocation of those mandates. Finally, this solution is not at all unknown and it has been applied in many countries of Europe; it would be logical, if we are already calling for their experience in other things, that we should also apply their experience on this issue and install these provisions in this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-11-0.u22049	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? There is a word from MP Zoran Angelkovic, the authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-11-0.u22050	As we discuss this law, I must say that I am constantly occupied by a thought -- whether this law on local elections really applies to local elections in Serbia, or only has one use, when it comes to elections in Bujanovac, Presevo and Medvedji. It is a significant dilemma precisely because of this amendment that is on the agenda, if it has one-time use only for these three municipalities, then it is something else, but if it has the use to be valid by the end of the year, to conduct elections, then it is certainly another debate. However, regardless of one story or another, I think it is necessary to ensure, if it is the concentration of political parties running on one election list, that they have a greater censorship. We have proposed, of course, that it be 6%, but that it cannot have the same percentage of votes received for the division and for the allocation of mandates, as it is when a political party is running. I'm saying this for the simple reason why it's logical, and I think this Parliament has been clearly showing this year and a few days of functioning, when you have 16 small political parties that make up a group, that it can't ensure normal functioning, because it's about different political options, about completely different pawns, about something that can't ensure the fact that a parliament functions effectively, whether it's municipal or republican. If so, it is logical, at least if such small political parties join together, that they have a more significant need to increase the number of voters they have received, if they want to share. Therefore, if we are looking at the matter that way, then we think that there must be a proportion relative to the number of electoral lists to be given the mandate, to divide the mandate. If two or more political parties are running, at the very least there should be a double number of voters won on the election list in the middle, in order to carry out the division of the mandate, in order to carry out the division of the committees. That is why we have proposed 6%, of course, provided that the previous 5% amendment is accepted for a single election list, when one electoral list is running, more specifically, when one political party is running independently for the committee. If there was a 3% left, and then we're up for 6%, but we think that the proportion can change from a larger number of voter lists, if there's a common coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-11-0.u22051	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. If not, we continue the debate. National MP Zoran Cirkovic submitted to the 41st amendment. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There's a word from MP Zoran Cirkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-11-0.u22052	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, by the second amendment to this law on local elections, I have intervened in Article 41, which introduces Hayr-Nimayer's method of selecting the people's representatives, in this case, the committee. One of the members of the judicial committee told me that he simply didn't understand what was going on, so he even expressed the infidel - do I suggest some other method. No, I'm really not the author of any new model. It's just that Hayr-Nimaer's method is characterized by a decent arithmetic dictionary and a decent formula, which stands on the right side. This formula comes from proportion, this formula is the result of proportion. You know, there is also in Nusic -- the proportion is solved by a simple three-way rule, right, and the simple rule is three-way is that the sum of the outside is equal to the sum of the inner members of the proportion. There, that's the elemental thing. Of course, I didn't write it, it wasn't necessary, I just wrote the formula. Furthermore, there is a great delusion of a legislator who thinks the number of remaining mandates will be small, one or two. It's going to be a lot bigger. Imagine the fact that there are 10 electoral lists, and there will be, and imagine the result that each of the electoral lists gets that "L" times "K" divided by "S", where "L" is the number of votes that supported that list, which voted for that list, "K" has established a parliamentary quota, and "S" is the total number of valid ballots, which meet the conditions of Article 4 of this Law, i.e. those lists that have fulfilled the electoral censorship provided for in this law, which is 3%. Otherwise, I haven't made a statement about the electoral censorship, and my position is this - the electoral censorship is so much better if it's closer to natural censorship. That means, if some local self-government chooses 33 councilmen, then a 3% censorship is actually a natural censorship. By the way, I remembered that it was a natural censorship, because the municipality from which I, Pryboy, will choose about 33 councilmen and this 3% census really corresponds to this natural censorship. Let's move on, I'll read this entire text of Amendment 2, which I propose to reshape Article 41, so it says, "The Electoral Commission distributes the mandates (We) to the electoral lists (Li) by formula Mi=LidgeK:S, where L=1,2,3,... n is the number of electoral lists, K is the total number of seats, Li is the number of votes that supported the election list, and S is the total number of votes that meet the conditions set out in Article 4. Each election list in the first distribution shall be assigned to the total number of mandates received in the ratio on the right of the given formula. The remaining mandates shall be distributed to the electoral lists in order of the size of the decimal part of the same coefficient. If decimals are the same advantage, there's a list with a larger whole part. If two electoral lists have received the same number of votes, there is a list that has been previously declared as a priority in the allocation of the remaining mandates. This is how, when I said a little bit that the legislator's delusion that the number of remaining mandates is minimal, I was thinking of this fact, that if 10 lists get an election amount of 0.9, then the number of remaining mandates is 10 times 0.9, and he's nine. The fact is that the number of remaining mandates will be much larger than two or three, because the number of remaining mandates is equal to the sum of the decimals obtained from this coefficient. When I intervened in the previous article in such a way as to clearly specify that election lists that received at least 3% of the votes of the total number of valid ballots were included in the mandate, then I thought simply that those votes that were valid would be summed up as suma S. Those who do not, of course, participate in S and how they would then participate in the censorship. I hope that the judicial committee will listen to the proposal of Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Covic, who supported these amendments and said that they simply reflect the real situation and fix the matter. This is why I also stated in Amendment 2 this sentence: "If the two voters received the same number of votes, the advantage in the allocation of the remaining mandates has a list that was previously declared." For the simple reason that the legislator didn't predict this thing, and it's realistically possible. However, not so often, but just as two mayoral candidates can have the same number of votes and two electoral lists can have the same number of votes. If two electoral lists have the same number of votes, then those in that amount have the same whole part and the decimal part. The provisions of the previous position cannot be applied, because the whole part is the same, so it cannot take precedence in applying the previous position and the provisions of this attitude can be applied. So, in that case, when these two numbers are the same, the logical thing is that the advantage has a list that was previously reported, for the simple reason, which has shown greater urgency. Once again, when it comes to the day "D", the day for voting on these amendments, indeed this law on local elections is only a newspaper in this election. These three members of 40, 41 and 42 represent the essence of this law. The amendments I have proposed represent a serious improvement. For these reasons, I expect all parliamentary groups to vote in favour of these amendments, because they are correcting things, and we aim to get a good electoral law and that it is valid for everyone equally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-11-0.u22053	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Golub Rajic and Nebojsa Jovic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Do any of the applicants of the amendment want a word? Here's a word from the People's MP, Golub Rajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-11-0.u22054	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, on the proposal for a law on local elections, in front of the SPS, with my colleague Jovic, I have submitted an amendment to Article 41, in which we have suggested that in paragraph 3 "24" be replaced by "36". The explanation is - in the position of Article 3. 41. The government has proposed that the electoral commission must, within 24 hours of the voter's closure, carry out the allocation of parliamentary mandates belonging to each election list. For the purpose of the necessary implementation of the previous transactions referred to in Article 1(1), the following shall be added: 39, 40 and 41. The proposal for this law, the 24-hour proposed deadline, will certainly be inconclusive in most municipalities. As a result of the previous amendment, a more reasonable deadline is proposed, that it is 36 hours. The government rejected this amendment with the reason that solutions in the draft law require more effective work to determine the result of the vote and the allocation of parliamentary mandates. Regardless of the government's explanation, the electoral commission will have a hard time doing all the work it needs to do within 24 hours. After receiving the election material, it determines the total number of voters, the number of voters who voted in and out of the polling station, the total number of tickets received, the number of invalids, the number of valid and the number of votes cast for each list and each polling post. Then, it determines the results of the election and makes up the record, each list that has crossed the censorship by a proportion of votes received, sets out the number of mandates and distributes mandates between the different electoral lists by multiplying the total number of parliamentary seats by the number of votes that each list has won. That means there's a lot of work here and I think it's reasonable to accept this amendment that the time for all these 24-hour jobs is increasing to 36, and that these 12 hours will be no problem and will allow everyone to do this very important job safely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-11-0.u22055	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. ) The 42nd Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Olgica Kircanski, Rodoljub Sabic and Meso Omerovic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Do any of the applicants of the amendment want a word? Here's a word from the People's MP, Olga Kircanski.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-11-0.u22056	I wouldn't bother you very much, mostly, we'll withdraw the amendment. We agree that it is a good enough solution and that the first third of the electoral list is considered mandatory for the mandate, not until the end of the list, because there are objective reasons why the proposal must be allowed in certain situations to grant a mandate in accordance with its needs and to implement it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-11-0.u22057	I find that, on behalf of the applicants, the amendment of the People's Parliament, Olga Kircanski, withdrew the amendment to Article 42, which ceases to be the subject of debate and subsequent decision-making. The 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Cirkovic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here's a word from MP Zoran Ćirkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-11-0.u22058	I've been thinking a little bit about explaining all three amendments in one breath, but, well, maybe it's better this way, because I'm remembering something as I walk from the last place to this pay phone, and there's nothing in particular that needs to be remembered, just the existing law to comply with the provisions so that he doesn't have any holes. So once again, when I just said that in the first allocation of the mandate, they are determined by the size of the whole part of that ratio, and the remaining decimal parts in the sum are the number of remaining mandates, I did not say then but I will say now -- and not only that, the remaining mandates are not even contained in the whole part or in that decimal part of those lists that received more mandates than they had proposed. And now, the legislator blatantly thinks there is only one mandate that will not be distributed, so he says - the mandate is assigned to the electoral list that has the next most of the fractions. I don't know if he thought it was just one, or if it was a press release. If he thought it was just one, he's in big error, he could be more, and if he didn't mean it, and he'd be thinking nothing as soon as he wrote it, that number of mandates could be bigger, so by what right does he assign a list that has the highest number of mandates? No, it is not distributed to that list and I simply suggest that these remaining mandates be distributed under the previous rules that we have set out in the previous article and the matter is completely regular. So, how does this work? So those entire mandates are distributed, only those that belong to decimals and remain those that belong to those lists that have a larger number of candidates. They are therefore distributed according to the established rules by making a ranking of decimals, and the remaining mandates are assigned on the ranking list. So, the legislator did not specify this matter, and that is why I once again appeal to all MPs, MPs' groups, that in the voting day when this amendment is voted on, they support this amendment because it corrects the existing legal text, and we are really in the interest that we have a good law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-11-0.u22059	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. We continue the debate. The 42nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Todorovic and Vladimir Garcevic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Jovan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-11-0.u22060	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the essence of the amendments that my colleague Garcevic and I have submitted on behalf of the SPS consists in the following two, in my opinion, important things. First, a colleague, Cirkovic, has already said something about this, and this is proof that when people read the law and the solutions provided for in it correctly, then mistakes in the part relating to the view that this possible surplus of the mandate, which one party or political group has won in relation to the number of proposed candidates, are seen as being treated in one. Life will certainly show, although I do not believe that many such examples will be, that there will be more of such mandates to be allocated according to the criteria contained in the law, and they relate to all the mandates. Secondly, I think it's important to say here, and I've already talked about it in principle, but now I'd like to take the opportunity to ask you once more to consider this proposal, to accept it, because it seems to me that it would ensure greater rights for political parties. It is said that the provisions of this article provide that a political party or coalition must assign at least one third of its term to candidates according to the order in the list. I think this is an extremely problematic issue for a number of reasons, and above all it limits the right for political parties to freely distribute their mandates. The proposal is to delete the provision and give the parties the right to assign the mandates they have won to those candidates for whom they are self-evaluation to deserve those mandates. The second reason here, in my view, is also very important to avoid what will certainly happen to us if this provision remains, which is that our village will be neglected in terms of the allocation of a political party's mandate, and we will also be threatened by members of a more beautiful sex, as they cannot be guaranteed increased participation in local congregations. If one party has to schedule one third of the mandate just as it is written on the ballot or on the ballot, then it is clear that there is no even distribution of the mandate, counting on gender, but also on the territory of the municipality where the elections are held. Perhaps one of the solutions here could be that the legislator thought about it in this way, that eventually in the municipalities elections are organised not in one constituency, as proposed by this law, but, let's say, in two constituencies, with one constituency representing the city and the city area, and the other constituency - the village, or rural area. Then perhaps it could survive a provision by which at least one third of the term of office is required according to the order of candidates. This would have represented both peasants and women in the municipalities, and it seems to me that citizens could satisfy their real and objective interests, in a way that would provide at least equality with committees, i.e. with citizens living in the area of the city. I don't know what the Proposer's motive was to just insist on that one-third? Why one third at all and why in order, why is it even determined by a political party what order will the candidates put on the list? Why wouldn't it be in alphabetical order, or by any other criterion that the political party defines as part of its election or election campaign? We objectively narrow down the freedom of political parties, although it seems to us that we will do something more equal to this electoral system, which, as we can see, is based on a proportional system. I know you'll forget what I told you about, I don't know when the vote will be, but I'm asking you to remember some of that and the day we vote on it, you have that in mind. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-11-0.u22061	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? The word comes from MP Zoran Angelkovic, but the notice you sent to the president of the National Assembly is that you represent a parliamentary group only when the president is not in the O.R. Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 42, the People's MP Vojislav Seselj submitted. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 42 of the amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Parliamentarians Bratoljub Janacković, Zoran Angelkovic, Ljubodrag Grbić, Sinisa Mitrović, Nebojsa Lekovic, Ružica Veljović, Milorad Stanulov, Boško Ničić and Slobodan Radulović submitted the amendment together. On behalf of the applicants, the representative is withdrawing the amendment from the procedure, which ceases to be the subject of the debate in particular and the decision-making process in the voting day. National MPs Slobodan Tomovic and Branko Ruzic submitted together to the 44th amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has adopted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Do the applicants want a word? No, I don't. We continue the debate. National MPs Vukosav Tomašević, Vladimir Dobrosavljevic and Bojana Aleksic submitted together to the 50th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MP Vojislav Seselj submitted to the 55th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Do any of the authorized participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on Justice and Administration has submitted to Article 55 of the amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Do any of the authorized participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) The 56th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Radojko Petric and Ljubomir Mucic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Radojko Petric.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-11-0.u22062	The President-in-Office, honourable MPs, in Article 56, has been prescribed that the municipal electoral commission is required to establish, no later than 5 days after the deadline for proposing candidates, a list of candidates for the president of the municipality, as well as a list of candidates to be set in the alphabetical order of the candidate's last name. Along with MP Ljubomir Mucic, on behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia, I have tabled an amendment to amend the government's proposal. In fact, we propose that the municipal electoral commission determines the order on the candidate list not in the alphabetical order of the candidate's last name, but according to the order in which the proposal is accepted. This rule also applies to the establishment of an order of election lists for the selection of committees and is regulated in Article 26(2) of this same law. Why should the election of the president of the municipality not be subject to the same rules as the selection of committees? Why favor the candidate just because his last name begins with the first letter of the alphabet compared to the candidate whose last name begins with the last letter of the alphabet? Why, for example, must the candidate for President Aleksic be on the list in front of candidate Sabic anyway? I hope my fellow MPs, whose last name I listed in this hypothetical case, don't mind me asking for a replica. Practice has shown that when there are more candidates on the list, however, some percentage of the votes are more won by those who are first on the list. Isn't it fairer that this advantage is benefited by a candidate whose political parties, either especially together or groups of citizens, were able to first secure the signatures of at least three per cent of voters, to collect all other necessary documentation and to hand over the first election commission a proposal, rather than to make the main advantage an alphabetic order of the candidate's last name. It is logical from this point on who should have the advantage, and I hope the MPs have understood this and that the proposed amendment will accept, thereby improving the government's proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-11-0.u22063	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic, president of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-11-0.u22064	Dear Presidency, fellow Members of the People's Assembly, I think that this amendment should be accepted by counterparts Petric and Mucic, for the simple reason that he pleads and in practice for the principle of fairness and equality of all candidates participating in the election for the president of the municipality, or mayor, since these provisions apply to the mayor as well. In fact, you have seen in the previous member of this proposal a law on local elections that three percent of the signatures are prescribed as a condition that someone may be running for the president of the municipality, or mayor. Since Serbia has one feature -- there are 189 municipalities that have a very different electoral body, out of several thousand domillion and 300,000 citizens, such as in Belgrade, we believe that the result of the application of such a settlement from the bill as it stands, unless this amendment is accepted, would objectively lead to the inequality of candidates. Col. Petric said nicely, and we as a parliamentary group stand behind it, why would someone, based on their last name, be the first on the list of mayoral candidates? Wouldn't it make sense that one who meets the requirements laid down by law first and collects the number of signatures that the law determines as necessary so that he can run first on the list; so the same principle is applied in the first part of this law when it comes to the electoral lists of political parties or coalitions, that he who first fulfils the conditions to be first on the list! Wouldn't it make sense that this same principle applies here, when setting out the candidate proposal for the president of the municipality, or mayor? Not unknown, world experience has also been mentioned, that objectively the first person on the list always gets, that statistics confirm, one to three percent more votes at the bottom of the other candidates. It may not matter to anyone, but we think that accepting this amendment, which was spoken of by counterpart Petric on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, would absolutely confirm the principle of justice and equality of all those participating in the elections; and of course, let citizens make their political will their own and give confidence to who they think will work best, or that they will work best in the citizens' interest at the level of the municipality.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-11-0.u22065	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? The word has been made by MP Zoran Ćirkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-11-0.u22066	The Socialist Party's amendment is quite correct, for the simple reason it corrects the existing legal text, because one law cannot in two ways treat the same electoral matter. If the electoral lists are determined by order based on the date of application, then, of course, the same order belongs to candidates for the mayor of the municipalities. There is no dilemma, and I am surprised that the legislator remembered that this way determines the order for the simple reason, which the speaker just said earlier, and I agree with him, because indeed no one has the credit that his last name begins with a voice that is at the top of the rank list in our alphabet, as no one is to blame for his initial letter of last name at the end of the alphabet. I don't know if it's this member, and if it isn't, then I'm sorry, I may have missed a timely call, and I think the government's intervened with the amendment that it takes 2,500 signatures for the mayor's candidate. If it became an integral part of the text, then I disagree with that integral part of the text. You have the municipality of Black Treva and it has 3,000 voters, and there the mayor can only be the one who collects 2,500 signatures. As the opponent appears, it's theoretically impossible. If the censorship is three percent large, let it be reduced, but it is fair that candidates for mayors in all municipalities must have equal support. For example, a municipality that has 40,000 voters and three percent is 1,200 signatures, which support a certain candidate for mayor. If the percentage is high, it can be reduced, but cannot be linearly determined, because it is unfair for municipalities that have a small number of voters, and such a large number of signatures that state or mayor. So we have to take care of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-11-0.u22067	The amendment mentioned was already under discussion and was submitted by the Committee on Justice and Administration. So it concerns the support of 2,500 voters. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Do any of the other authorised participants want a word under article 56? No, I don't. ) The Committee on Justice and Administration has submitted to Article 56 of the amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Are any of the authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 59th Amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs Vukosav Tomašević, Vladimir Dobrosavljevic and Bojana Alexic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word from the authorized participants in the debate? No, I don't. We continue the debate. Member of the 59th Amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Seselj. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Do any of the authorized participants want a word? No, I don't. We continue the debate. National MPs Bosko Ničić, Nebojsa Leković, Ljubodrag Grbić, Milorad Stanulov, Bratoljub Janacković, Siniša Mitrović, Slobodan Radulović, Zoran M. Angelković and Ružica Veljović submitted together to the 61st amendment. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Do the applicants remain on the amendment? Yeah. ( b) Do any of the authorized participants want a word? No, I don't. We continue the debate. Members of the 61st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Todorovic and Milos Nesovic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Do any of the authorized participants want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Jovan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-11-0.u22068	Ladies and gentlemen, the question of the president of the municipality has been regulated by the Law on Local Self-Government, but also by this law. I'd have a few notes before I say what the essence of this amendment is. On behalf of the SPS, Parliamentarian Nesovic and I have proposed that this amendment to Article 61 set a deadline in which citizens' statement on the impeachment of the president of the municipality will be organised, and in cases where conditions for impeachment are obtained. As you know, the law and this proposal stipulates that the president of the assembly, i.e. the municipality, can be replaced by that function in three ways: the first is when political parties, groups or groups of citizens collect 10% of signatures in relation to the total electoral body; the second is when the Assembly decides to launch an initiative to declare the president's impeachment; the third is the case when the Government of the Republic of Serbia, because trust is not done in accordance with the law, to launch the initiative. This member of the law, as proposed, has not set a deadline for who will and when to call the citizens' statement on this subject. It may occur to us that we have all the conditions acquired and in accordance with the Law on Local Self-Government and in accordance with the Law on Local Elections, and that the President of the Municipality continues to exercise power over us and that of any authority: executive, rightful authority, without any restrictions. There's no time limit for that job to be done. The second question, and what's really absurd, is that we don't need most voters to choose the president of the municipality at all. It is necessary that whoever ran in some elections, whether they succeed or not, gets the most votes. We can come into such a situation that -- for example, in my municipality, such as Loznica, of 80,000 voters, 20% or 16,000, whoever gets the most votes of those 16,000, let's say 5,000 or 6,000 votes to be elected president of the municipality. And in order to recall the president of the municipality, who doesn't do his job properly, we need a full 8,000 citizens' signatures to even run a story about replacing the president of the municipality, because he's not doing his job properly. Or to run for president of the municipality, e.g. In Loznica, we need about 2,500 signatures; and in order to just talk about his responsibility we need 8,000 signatures. Is it normal for the president of the municipality, who otherwise has Pharaoh's powers, I would say, in this way we protect. In the end, what I'm saying is, a legal gap like this in the law on local elections can be the subject of a variety, not to say masculine, but also political games. The post of president of the municipality can be practically unwitting, although all the conditions laid down by law have been obtained for the recall of the president, i.e. the possibility for citizens to be made known at the general vote whether or not they have confidence in the president of the municipality. Please bear that in mind, accept an amendment proposing that the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, when the terms of the law are approved, shall have the obligation to organise, or call a declaration of residence on this subject, within 15 days of the date on which these conditions have been established. This solves many things that can come to us in the future as an objective problem in the functioning of both local self-government and the president of the municipality and the assembly of the municipality, especially since the president, for example, has no obligation to submit even a report on his work to the municipality. It would be most natural to submit a report on its work at least once a year, so when the municipal assembly does not accept such a report, it is automatically considered to be the scheduled election for the new president. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-11-0.u22069	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 62nd Amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs Vukosav Tomašević, Vladimir Dobrosavljevic and Bojana Alexic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Do any of the authorized participants want a word? No, I don't. We continue the debate. National MPs Ljubisa Maravić, Đura Lazic and Sreten Mitrovica submitted together to the 65th amendment. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Do any of the authorized participants want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-11-0.u22070	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, based on Articles 142 and 143. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, distinguished colleagues Đura Lazic, Sreten Mitrovica and I have submitted an amendment to Article 65. The proposal for a law on local elections, which says a new position is added in Article 65, which reads: "The law on local elections will apply in the territory of the AP Kosovo and Metohija after the end of the UNMIK and KFOR mission." This provision in the legal text has so far been common in our parliamentary practice, so we believe that there is no reason not to stand in the law on local elections. The government of the Republic of Serbia believes the amendment should be rejected, explaining that the proposed solution is not necessarily introduced into the law, as it implies that after the end of the UNMIK and KFOR mission, this law will be applied in the territory of the AP Kosovo and Metohija. We believe that if something is already being understood, then there is no reason not to bring that meaning into the law as a legal form. For Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija, particular emphasis on this fact means indirect support for those who stayed in Kosovo and Metohija, as well as incentives and incentives for those who want to return to Kosovo and Metohija. Since the AP Kosovo and Metohija are part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, it is necessary to specify the application of this Republic's law and that part of our territory. If the law was passed without this provision, it could be interpreted as giving up all the powers of the Serbian state in the territory, which stem from the provisions of this law. This is not only to create problems in the future, when our state authorities return to Cosmet, but at this point it could be deliberately interpreted as a de facto denial of our Republic from the part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Such an attitude could be a signal for the remaining non-Albanian living in Kosovo and Metohija to start a new exodus and leave the Serbian people's space and another non-Albanian life.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-11-0.u22071	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-11-0.u22072	Dear Presidency, fellow MPs, I think this amendment of my colleagues Maravić, Lazic and Mitrovica is very involved and should find its place in this bill. Namely, the three are MPs of the National Assembly living in Kosovo and Metohija and the best across their backs feel the consequences of everything that is going on down there. As a parliamentary group, we believe that this bill should be complemented absolutely by this provision proposed in the amendment -- that the law on local elections will apply in Kosovo and Metohija after the end of the UNMIK and KFOR mission. For some in this assembly it may also be a declarative position, but for people living and working downstairs, who are citizens of the Republic of Serbia and who, of course, experience Serbia with all their beings, it will have a very great importance. This will be another encouraging sign for them that the state of Serbia is taking care of all citizens and its entire territory. I would not like to talk through the explanation of this amendment about what is going on down there, but the fact that after UNMIK and KFOR arrive, none of what has been specified as obligations and administrators and these bodies have been fulfilled or met in terms of 1% compared to the remaining 99%. No provision of those contracts and documents signed has been fully applied and the citizens living downstairs know what it looks like to live under the administration of the United Nations, UNMIK, KFOR and these authorised representatives. Not only that, not only are those provisions signed together and that mean something to these people, but even those provisions they themselves sign change according to political needs and to the interests that we Socialists consider to be against the Serbian people, the state of Serbia and against the citizens of Kosovo and Metohija. We plead that this amendment is adopted for one reason -- we don't think we should run away from it, even if it has some declarative character; let it have a declarative character, but we think that this amendment should be adopted. I must remind fellow MPs that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, if we are talking about competencies - whether or not it can, whether it will be worth it or not, whether or not it is valid - within the framework of its powers as provided for by the Law on Local Self-Government, the former who has applied until the adoption of a new one, has also made decisions on the introduction of forced administrations in a number of municipalities. Not getting into whether these decisions were justified, whether they were applied or not, we believe that this is another argument more in favor of the attitude that this amendment should be adopted, because it means a lot to people living and working downstairs.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-11-0.u22073	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. We continue the debate. Members of the 66th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Joca Arsic and Zoran R. Angelkovic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Do the applicants want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Do any of the authorized participants want a word? The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-11-0.u22074	Dear fellow MPs, during the debate on this proposal for a law on local elections, in both principle and in particular, somewhere directly, indirectly, we have heard that the provisions of this law will be applied first in these three municipalities in southern Serbia, and that part of the law, we will see in what extent, later, will be amended, of course, in which part will be the provisions. That's one side of the story. So this law will apply very quickly. counterparts Angelkovic and Arsic have proposed that Article 66 of this law establish the obligation to hold new local elections by 31 December of the current year in Serbia. We Socialists think that this amendment makes a lot of sense and that new local elections absolutely make sense and that there is a need in local self-government to hold new local elections. First of all, I would mention, for those who do not follow this in a little more detail, that the previous local elections were held on 23 September 2000, that after October events, and also in the framework of the December elections, many municipalities across Serbia had formed a number of crisis headquarters that, using both legal and physical violence, changed the electoral will of citizens in these municipalities. Some of it was sanctioned. Using the provisions of the Law on Local Self-Government, the government of the Republic of Serbia has imposed a forced administration in over 30 and some municipalities. The truth is, I have to say that 18 municipalities were called local elections, which were held on 4 November last year, but the fact is that a large number of municipalities remained, both those where forced administration was introduced and those where no forced administration was introduced, but where, through one violence that existed at the level of local self-government, the electoral will of citizens was changed. That is one of the strong reasons why local elections should be held by the end of this year. Another reason lies in the fact that there are major labour irregularities in many municipalities, which are unfortunately tolerated. There is simply a need to through the elections all these irregularities of the ID, decide and give their own court. I, speaking in the principle of this bill, also mentioned the example of the municipality of Kučevo, where five SPS committees - although we took away the mandates and the Ministry of Justice and local self-government, provided all relevant information about it, even anything that the party documents foresee as a necessary condition for the removal of the mandate - used by the rest of the Assembly quorum and that they are accounted for in the quorum not only when adopting the budget, which is considered to be one of the conditions that the government can impose forced administration in these municipalities, but that these committees are also used in adopting other decisions, which are therefore illegal. To this day, the ministry has not taken the appropriate steps to resolve this issue, and the only way to resolve this issue is to introduce a forced administration and schedule new elections, but, on the contrary, by its silence, it has left such a factual state, i.e. that the violation of the law takes place in practice. Meanwhile, local elections were called in the municipality by the president of the National Assembly in order to replace the number of committees needed for quorum through these additional elections and through elected committees, and thus create, regular conditions for the work of the National Assembly. The third reason we mentioned it as the previous reason for these others, which is the situation in southern Serbia and what is happening in these municipalities. So there are many reasons why new elections should be held in the Republic of Serbia by the end of this year; therefore, fellow MPs, on behalf of the parliamentary group, have suggested that this member of the law be complemented by the provision of an obligation to hold elections and we believe that it should be an integral part of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-11-0.u22075	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. If not, we continue the debate. National MP Vojislav Seselj submitted to the 67th amendment. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Do any of the authorized participants in the debate want a word? He doesn't want to. ) This concludes the search of the draft law in particular, and on the basis of Article 138. I ask the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly - does the Proposer's representative want a final word? He doesn't want to. ) In this case, I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular, and the National Assembly will decide in the voting days on the draft law, in principle, on amendments, and on the draft law, in general, and the voting days will be decided by the President and notified to the National Assembly. We move to item 5 of the agenda: - Proposal for a CONTRAGATION OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA OF SERBIA TO THE FUND REPUBLIC OF SOUTH PUBLICATION FOR OBLIGATION OF OBLIGATION BY THE ZTP "BELEGRAD" TO THE EUROPEAN REGULATION AND Development BANK You have received the bill, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time for discussion, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to a proportionate number of MPs of each parliamentary group. Total time - to know how much to discuss, please the presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, that, according to the usual procedure, they are applying for a word, with a number of MPs, so that the Service of the Assembly can determine the order on the basis of the obligations of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I'm opening a principled search. Does the proposing representative, Mr Bozidar Djelic, the finance and economy minister, want a word? There is a word from the minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-11-0.u22076	Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we propose a vote on the proposal for a law on the granting of counter-guarantee to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia to pay off commitments under the mandate of the ZTP "Belgrade" to the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development; this is the point of the agenda; and, as you can see, the next item of the agenda will be very similar - giving counter-gains to a very similar loan, this time for the Public Enterprise of the Elektroprivred Serbia (I don't think it is united, it's not; so we're starting with the railway). I'm going to explain to you through three whole points: firstly, the financial terms of this railway loan; secondly, the purpose of these funds; and thirdly, a little wider meaning of this loan for our economy. At this point, since you went a little faster than we predicted, you now share one note, which will explain both loans; you will have several elements for both loans, and additionally, which was the element of the agreement, when it was voted here in February, in this house, the guarantee of the loan of the German Bank for Development given to EPS. All the heads of the parliamentary groups are also delivered today and the entire text of the contract, so that each parliamentary group can see the whole text signed, which the SRJ subsequently voted on, and today you are proposed to vote counter-guarantee. As far as the first loan is concerned, it is clear to all of us that our railway, which was one of the most advanced in Eastern Europe by the end of the 1980s, has experienced a complete disaster; it is one enterprise where there has been no more serious investment for ten years. Today, compared with other countries, the participation of our railways in transport, not only passengers, but perhaps more importantly, goods, at an extremely low level; somewhere around 16% of total transport goes across the railways. This is much less than in other countries, and this has a much greater share of road traffic, which means greater road circulation, not to talk about environmental effects, and that this means more imports and diesels and gasoline. So this has one chain effect, that bad state of our railway is very directly reflected on other industries; that I'm not talking about that last year's transport itself was six times smaller than in 1990; the railroad, which covered a good part of its costs, became a major budget item, because it was unable to cover its elemental costs. For example, the final bill for last year shows that in rail revenues as many as two-thirds comes from the budget, and that is one devastating fact. This year's budget -- and that will be the same, if you adopt budget rebalances, there's not much change -- about eight billion dinars for railways. It's for the payment fund and it's for those minimum costs, because at this point it doesn't sell its services for passengers or goods in the volume in which it would be necessary to cover its payment fund, let alone cover depreciation; not to mention some necessary investments. After a change of government, already in November, December, and then since the establishment of the Serbian government, intensive negotiations have started with all possible creditors, who could inject that fresh money, to help the railways get out of that deep hole where they are today and, unfortunately, all those employees there. So it is necessary to find additional sources, so that the necessary investments would be made at this point, so that the railway becomes competitive and one credible, alternative form of passenger and goods transport, so that it can cover a lot more costs itself, so that there is no longer a budget item in the scope of which we know; therefore, to withdraw the positive effects by the rest of the economy, versus the negative ones that I was talking about earlier. That, I would say, is an explanation for why it has been approached to seek the most favourable means possible and I can say, the European Bank for Development, with the European Investment Bank - but on that path, I will say a few words about it and what this loan can provide for the ZTP - represent two possible sources for our country at this time. The financial terms of the loan - first, the volume of the loan is 57m euros, which in absolute terms may seem a lot, but it is only the beginning of our railway. The starting period on this loan lasts until 5 April 2006, and the main repayment period is from April 2006 to October 2016. So it's a very long-term loan that our country and the Public Enterprise ZTP couldn't get on the capital market. Thanks to the existence of these international financial institutions, such as the European Bank, we are able to get a five-year start from the moment of signing this contract, which took place on 25 October of last year, and a repayment deadline that is even 10 years as far as the principal is concerned. The principal is paid twice a year and the interest jeuribor plus 1%, and that interest will be fixed immediately before this loan is approved. Euribor is about 3.5% at this point, which means the total interest is going to be Eurobor plus one, and that's about 4.5% on the annual level. As we can see, it is a very favourable interest; through it, the European Bank for Development, which has strong capital, strong rating on the international capital market, is transferring that rating to our country. In return, of course, and that's why we're here today, which is why we're proposing this law, they're looking for so-called. the sovereign guarantee, the SRJ guarantee, which is a member of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and Serbia itself, as a counterguarantee. We also have two costs that are common. I would say that we have come through very tough negotiations between the Serbian and ZTP teams, to the point that these costs are reduced to a minimum, but there is also 0.5% of the fee on undrawn assets and 1% of the commission at the time of the conclusion of this contract. So much for financial conditions. They are favourable; the most favourable given by the European Bank for Development at this point is the most favourable source of funding to get the ZTP off the dead end. Now I would move to another point -- which is the purpose of those funds, the 57m euros. We have three key purposes of this loan: first, it is after 10 years in the company - 60 electric locomotives will be remounted and equipped; we have the possibility that 60 locomotives, for each one to invest around 400,000 euros, will be renovated; it is that famous rolling stock that is constantly spoken of, about the inability of the railway even to serve that offer that is required, because valid locomotives in function are not available. Thanks to this first part of 25m euros (of 57m euros), the ZTP will finally revitalise the electricity fund. I can say that there are no cranes here, because they pollute, and the policy of the European Bank is that it does not lend to it. This enables those funds that have been released to do so - electrically, to be used for some other purposes, and that is where the possibility of participation of some of our domestic companies in the remont itself is seen. In particular, MIN from Nis competes and it will be in all combinations, it seems, one of those who will get significant jobs through public procurement that will follow after the adoption of this counterguarantee. The second element is the procurement of heavy machinery for maintenance of the track, as well as easy machinery for working on track. It's about infrastructure. It's not just that the ZTP doesn't have enough locomotives today, it's that the tracks themselves are unable to handle something stronger. For ten years, no light and heavy equipment has been restored, mechanism; thanks to 20m euros, it will be possible and work on the tracks will start a bit. For the rest, there is a significant item, around 10m euros for restructuring the company itself and for funding a social programme to reduce the number of jobs in the ZTP itself; it is today, as I have noted, in the amount of money available from six to nine times as much as it was before, and has a slightly higher workforce than it was in the early 1990s; this imbalance has to be resolved. Of course, not through some shock therapy, but through a multi-annual social adaptation programme: retirement, financing of small and medium-sized enterprises, or lending them; one word, reducing the volume of labour to the level that will enable the purpose of these funds, that the ZTP is a much less burden for the taxpayer of the Republic of Serbia through the budget. What are the broader effects of this counterguarantee? Well, first of all, it is that through a loan like this we will allow the railway to become visible again on the map of Europe, at the moment we are preparing to repair corridor 10 on the road, because that same corridor exists in the rail domain. In 2004, there will be Olympic games in Athens and it is very important that our railways are able to carry out transport and goods and people who want to participate in the preparation of this event and in the event itself. As we have seen, many of our companies today, when deciding which means of transport to use, often do not think about rail as an alternative; and it is in a large number of cases, if the minimum conditions are established for trains to go on time, to make transport possible, to do so under some competitive conditions, the most favourable option; this loan will be the first step to establish it. Finally, it also means that this way the roads will be cleared, and for those who want to be transported by road, things will be more favourable. There is, of course, a financial effect. It is expected that through the implementation of this loan, the ZTP itself, of course, an additional loan from the European Investment Bank waiting for this loan to be established, becomes a few years from now -- I would not say a profitable enterprise, because, hand-to-heart, it is difficult to find a railway in Europe and a world that is a very profitable enterprise, but a reasonable goal should be to keep the funds that Serbian taxpayers, through the budget, are significantly smaller -- a less budget user. That's it. These are the reasons why the Government of the Republic of Serbia is proposing that you adopt this counter-guarantee law.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-11-0.u22077	Do the rapporteurs of the Finance and Legislative Committee want a word? No, I don't. ) Are the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, a word? Please, the word has been made by MP Jovan Todorovic, the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group for this item of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-11-0.u22078	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Djelic, allow me, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, to make several general views and evaluations regarding the proposal of these two laws. I'm deliberately saying two, because I'm probably not going to report for the second item of the agenda, because it seems to me that it's essentially possible to tell a completely consistent story, which relates to both responsibilities -- for the power utility of the ZTP. Of course, the Socialists have no objection to solving accumulated problems in the ZTP as well as in Serbia's electricity industry. But there are a few questions that as people, we have to get answers and think well of ourselves. First, the question of the future of the SRJ opens. As you can see, in one and another draft law of the obligation of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the SRJ, begins to run since 2005 or 2006. We do not know what our situation will be, since it is possible that after three years there is no common state of Serbia-Montenegro. Second... Micko, when you speak, I won't disturb you. [[growls]] The second question is not only formally but also essential. With regard to the proposed text of the law, the following question arises - whether Mr Djelic and this DOS authority believe in a controversial dinar if it provides that commitments to the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development are settled exclusively in euro and that it is the obligation of the Republic of Serbia to ensure an appropriate dinar counter-value of the euro, i.e. the dinar in relation to the euro at the time of providing these funds. The whole story also asks one in my opinion a fundamental question: does anyone in this country know what the external debt of the SRJ is and how much of it does the Republic of Serbia owe? What kind of debt is that? What's it made of? How in the last year and a half, since the DOS came to power, have we solved it? We are witnesses that in the media, of all kinds, in newspapers, on television, on the radio, the press conferences are constantly talking about how the European Union has turned to the SRJ, supporting the new democratic, DOS government; how the IMF has approved $800 million to support a stable rate of dinar; how the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development has also approved appropriate credit funds, but I believe that very few citizens know the real truth about our country's external debt. Ladies and gentlemen, I would remind you, too, of similar decisions relating to the debt this country has or has towards the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. It is a consolidation loan, which, based on a decision by the federal government and the federal parliament, has turned into a new debt of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia towards the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development of 2.1 billion dollars, surrounded by words. These two billion and 100 million dollars serve to pay back the old debts: therefore, the principal, interest, plus the tightening interest for the return of the principal in the period from 1992 to the time of the conclusion of the new agreement on so-called. the consolidation loan to the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. There is now a question of how objectively the international community is in favour of the new DOS government, how many republics of Serbia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, if we are granted a new loan to repay the old debt? For those of you who may not have enough information on this, I'd like to say that the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development is part of what's called the so-called International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. World Banks, one of five afiliacies and we are one of the founders; therefore, I am talking about the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia as the legal successor of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and one of the founders of the World Bank. The World Bank was founded as a United Nations agency at the same time as the International Monetary Fund in 1944, and Yugoslavia joined both institutions in 1945. From that day forward, ladies and gentlemen, Yugoslavia has been granted over 90 loans, which are on the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Montenegro: 53 projects are funded in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and the rest in the Republic of Montenegro. In the financial statement, it is 6 billion and 100 million dollars, of which 4 billion and 300 million dollars were used by 30 April 1992. Then the international community, the same one we are now talking about as well-intentioned, imposed sanctions on the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and thus prevented it as an orderly debtor from pacifying its obligations over the past 10 years. As a result of such unprecedented sanctions, and then bombings, we also have a state of affairs in Elektroprivred and ZTP. And now, miraculously, the European Community is emerging again, in the form of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which will give us new loans, to do what we couldn't do in the last 10 or 12 years. Here we ask what the morals of the European Union, what the morals of the European Community, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and the International Monetary Fund are like. It is important because, you see, immediately after the DOS victory in the elections and after President Vojislav Kostunica's declaration as president of the SRJ, the first thing that man did was to initiate the process of joining the United Nations SRJ, even though Yugoslavia was the founder of the United Nations. In fact, the continuity with the previous Yugoslavia has been interrupted, which is very important in this story about our country's overall external debt. It was not the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which therefore operates within the World Bank, that renewed the loan of 2 billion and 100 million because it loves us, but because it realised that the legal continuity was interrupted and that new loans needed to ensure the repayment of the debt, and out of that 2 billion and 100 million dollars, no single dollar remained for the needs of the Yugoslav economy, nor for the needs of the Republic of Serbia's economy. We recently heard the US President George Bush's decision to remain frozen 300 million dollars that our companies and banks have in the United States. Please, sometimes evaluations say it's a bigger asset, but imagine if someone for 12 full years keeps 300 million dollars trapped because of the so-called. The external wall of sanctions and imagine that the price of that capital is only 6% a year as much as it could possibly be according to Mr. Djelic's calculations to count that this loan also costs, in 12 years it's 100%. So America doesn't owe us any more 300 million dollars, but another 300 million on interest to unwarrantedly keep our funds in its banks. He owes us 600 million dollars in total, and we'd have to jump out of luck if that same George Bush and the American Congress gave us 40 million dollar help. Therefore, they do not give us our money, and how they will give us theirs, allegedly taking care of the interests of the Serbian people, democracy, the future of the SRJ, etc. I suggest that, as Parliament, we demand exhaustive information on the real state of external debt of the SRJ, how much the principals are in it, how much interest and how tight the interest for the period that we have had in sanctions and how much credit we have so far withdrawn from various international financial institutions in order to repay the old loans. I'm gonna stop here because I'm a fair man and I'm gonna let Mr. Djelic answer these questions, and I'm counting on them to be interesting to you, and then I'm gonna use my right to another ten minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-11-0.u22079	I thank Mr. Todorovic. The word has a finance minister, Mr Bozidar Djelic. Do you want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-11-0.u22080	There's more stuff here. From what I hear, there were three questions. First, why we are given loans to repay loans, those old debts; secondly, why Europe, i.e. The World Bank has not forgiven any more; and thirdly, do we have any privileges because of our external financial situation? As far as the first situation is concerned, I would say, from the moment we are truly, as former Yugoslavia, one of the founders, there was one status, and since then the World Bank and all its members have been operating on the same principle, which is that as an institution that will always preserve the highest rating on the capital market, so on. three "a";- that she could transfer that cheaper capital to countries that want to get a loan like we got -- she doesn't approve of a debt reduction; means, as our people would say -- she can't both goats and money. That's what we founders signed at that time, they've known each other for 50 years, these terms of the game, and it's the only institution, with a few smaller ones, where it's a fact. So we can't be expected to get very favourable loans. And to mention, we as a country, with the loan you were talking about, we got $540 million, with zero interest, additional funds to finance our budget needs, too. As you heard, the other day, their board approved another 85 million dollars, which we'll be able to pull pretty fast. On the one hand, we have this, not cheap, but zero interest assets that we have received, and the other must accept the fact that such an institution, in order to maintain such a rating on the capital market, does not forgive its old debts. However, if you go into the details, into the technique and look at what happened in the negotiations and with that institution, you can see that through the extension of the payment period, through the moments when the interest calculation was made, as well as the tightening interest -- and not only that, but also through the reduction of some tight interest, erasing a large number of them and what is left of interest -- you will see that it is within our statutes, where we have signed as founder, to the maximum extent possible. So much for the first question. If they hadn't granted us that loan, we wouldn't have been able to withdraw these loans, and that was the way to get back into the game. As for the second element, I think I've already answered; there are several institutions like those that can't sign for business; but look what happened in all those other situations. You were talking about $2.1 billion and you're right, but our total debt is $12.1 billion, and of course it's known, almost to the last million, what Serbia owes, and what Montenegro owes; we've figured out to the end what companies on the territory of Kosovo owe, and we're looking for in negotiations with Umnik, within Resolution 1244, that whoever collects public revenues on the territory of our province today are also the ones who will repay those loans. Those aren't small sums. At $2.1 billion, if I remember correctly, $200m of waste in Montenegro and 400m of waste in enterprises located in the territory of the AP Kosovo and Metohija. So it's not a little money. Debts are also separate from what was found, and that is not the exception of the World Bank, and that is where our trustees came into contact, as they did not meet any middle-developed country in the 45-year Paris Club. Where Croatia received zero e-mails, we received 66% of the write-offs. Now, with the vote and the signing of a three-year arrangement with the International Monetary Fund, a 51% reduction has been made possible at this time. Poland didn't have that privilege either. She got 50% write-offs, but not in the same step and not in the same rhythm as we got. So, of all the countries of our rank and the gabarites, we have received the most favourable treatment of our debt, which has ever been given by the Paris Club. Now negotiations are under way with the so-called. The London Club, where the commercial banks are and of course there's a purely commercial interest, but judging by the latest indications, I think we'll be able to get to and how favourable conditions for the write-off and reprogramme of our debt. Of all the republics of the former Yugoslavia, Serbia i.e. The SRJ and Bosnia and Herzegovina received the most favourable conditions for payment. The third thing; if you look at the approval of new loans, I can say that we had a chance with Mr Labus, who led the SRJ delegation to Bucharest at the annual session of the European Bank for Development and Reconstruction, to see that in two years of developing new jobs with our country, Serbia, if I concentrate on it, with 230m euros already approved, 57m euros and these 100m euros were, of course, part of it, as well as what is expected this year, about half a billion euros, attracted to fresh money, only from that institution more money than Macedonia, Bosnia, Slovenia or any other former republic, with the exception of Croatia, attracted in the last 10 years. That shows the interest and engagement of the team that worked on this. I can tell you that EPS and ZTP executives have picked up high levels of professionalism in drawing up this file. That is why we are able to make a relatively fast suggestion and that this fresh money, which is so necessary for the revitalisation of the ZTP and EPS, comes into these companies. So what you were talking about is what Yugoslavia agreed to back in 1945; and for everything else, the best conditions of any country in Europe.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-11-0.u22081	Does one of the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word comes from MP Dragan Markovic, president of the SSJ parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-11-0.u22082	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, we from the Serbian Unity Party expected Minister Djelic to bring us the first report where money from the previous guarantee was spent. Since we entered this congregation, we're just giving some kind of guarantee, taking some credit, and we don't know where that money's going. Furthermore, in his speech, Minister Djelic said that we owe $12 billion. It is well known, Mr. Djelic, that you were promised before 5 October that 6 billion dollars would arrive in Yugoslavia, so you could pay that same money back and reduce the debt to 6 billion. It's not done. I don't know, and I mean Serbian citizens, where the money went, who came and what it was spent on. Also, you should have brought in a donation report, how many donations arrived in Serbia and Yugoslavia, without Serbia's citizens benefiting from it; if we remind ourselves that there were many mules, a lot of oil, and the price of heating across Serbia's cities went enormously up, as much as 800 to 900% was raised. We also expected you to say that this economy would stand on its own feet. You're here criticizing the railroad and all right; but the railroad didn't go down on its own, Mr. Djelic. It is known that some goods should get into those wagons, which means that production is needed in some factories, because that railroad is used to transport these goods. On the other hand, it is known that production in Serbia is in a drastic decline, which means that you who need to secure production and create certain conditions of the economy did not do so and that is why the railway is in this situation. It wasn't the railroadmen's fault, and in that strike they were supposed to endure to the end. I think they were right. Your popularity abroad is mentioned here. If your popularity is so high abroad, then why isn't transit traffic taking place across our country? We have enough rails in Serbia; I must remind you that there are so many randic stations in Serbia, specifically in Lapovo there were once 1,000 cars in that station, and today you can't see 10 cars. That means nothing in this country works after October 5th, Mr. Djelic. I remember before October 5th some cars were carrying something, and now empty wagons are where they came from since October 5th, so it's a very difficult situation in our country. I finally expected you to come up with a proposal here and give us a guarantee, and our country takes credit and that money goes to agriculture. When are you going to do that, since we don't have a Minister of Agriculture? The Serbian Unity Party is prepared to support such a proposal, to provide such credit to our agricultural producers; for, we are constantly comparing ourselves with the countries of the West, that the prices of agricultural products are much lower than ours, and on the other hand, we forget that they have much better conditions there; agricultural producers in those countries of Europe are not only used once in four years when the election campaign is, but every year they know what the ransom price is, each year they know what is the credit they will receive and when the credit will be returned. Then we expected you to bring in one program, and the Serbian Unity Party would support it, to list 10 factories in Serbia, and to say that a $10 billion loan will be provided, since you only handle billions of people when they are public gatherings, and that this money goes to the flag for the First Five-year-old, for the Elektrone Industry, for the cable factory, the largest giant in the Pomoravska County and other factories in Serbia, because it is known that workers can no longer live on their work. You promised before October 5th that there would be an increase in production. Now we have a large number of workers who are out of work and we say they have a chance to form some new small and medium-sized enterprises; you as finance minister know that someone can't form a small and medium-sized enterprise unless there's some initial capital, and on the other hand you say that they can take a loan; how to take credit when it's not creditworthy and when tabulation needs to be three times bigger than credit itself. That's the kind of question we from the Soviet Union want to ask you in this assembly. Please answer that once. We have rare luck that you come to this room and be with us, but to answer: when will these people get credit, or farmers? The question is also raised, and we would support that you brought it into this congregation, what about pensioners and those who have small pensions, that is, that social programme. You as finance minister should bring a social programme to this assembly. Citizens of Serbia, that's the topic; credit, how to help citizens; yes, Ms. Nedo, that's the topic. The theme is always when it comes to citizens of Serbia, so you know. And these culture people of yours aren't very happy, Mrs. Neddo, they say when you're not here, you're not fighting for culture, etc., and you're the only one who's better, and they're much worse.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-11-0.u22083	Mr. Markovic, please return to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-11-0.u22084	Okay, I'm back on the subject, I forgot that you're the chairman, I'm sorry. What is worst for the SSJ, Mr Djelic, but this is also dangerous for other parties, i.e. for those who will stay to live in Yugoslavia -- this loan returns in 2006. You in 2006, and now I can sign all of my properties, you won't be in Paris. You will go to a country where no one can ever find you. But for the record, there is no map for Mars yet, so the citizens of Serbia will find you. Please come out and tell me when you will help farmers, pensioners, jobless workers, educators, health workers, Serbs from Cosmeta; this guarantee will be supported by the Soviet Union. For such a guarantee, with a return date since 2006, when you will no longer be there, when the Soviet Union has to create conditions for that loan to return, we will not vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-11-0.u22085	Thank you. The word has a finance minister, Mr Bozidar Djelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-11-0.u22086	There were a lot of things in this presentation that were much wider than the very point of the agenda. Still, some things were about loans. First of all, on the arrival of donations. At the moment of budget rebalancing, you will have one part of the text, and it concerns those donations that have come to our country since the beginning of the year; Mr Pitic will come at that moment to show you where the money went. He already did it here once during the 2002 budget discussion. A large number of donations in 2000/2001. He went where we had, I'd say, fire in the house, and that's energy again -- for what was urgent in terms of electricity imports. We weren't able to produce enough. It was also there for drugs, and rich in agriculture, which farmers know well, the donations of Italy and Japan went to artificial fertilizer and to regress the price of diesel last year. As far as agriculture itself is concerned, negotiations are under way for one part of those $540 million of very favourable dollars, which I mentioned earlier, to be directed right into agriculture. I think that's okay. The government of the Republic of Serbia is currently working with the resolution ministry on an appropriate programme. I think agriculture, which today represents 28% of our socio-national product, deserves our attention. Not only through one loan in the last 16 months, that's what we heard just now, the net first time since World War II is now being paid an advance premium for sugar tail; two-thirds, and the rest will be in November. For the first time since World War II, the second year in a row, our peasants know what the price of buying out wheat will be. Last year she was bought out on time, in real money, without devaluation and without inflation. That's how it's gonna be this year. Whoever was at the farm fair in Novi Sad a few weeks ago saw the ambience, the deals that come together, and the combined ones that are being bought; it's obviously naked with the eye to go better. Not to mention that this government has abolished the sales tax on everything that goes into agricultural production, from what it needs to protect plants from pests, through livestock food, to the elimination of the sales tax that you voted for fresh food, fruit, vegetables, meat, fish and eggs. This led to a significant drop in production this year and a drop in prices. It's just the beginning and we expect a further drop in meat prices this year. If we put what's about to come to this, fresh funding for agriculture, and some loans have already gone through Agrobank, through many other banks, a new fund is being formed that I'm going to talk a little bit more about at the moment of budget rebalance for our peasants, we can say that agriculture was one of our priorities. Indeed, better climate conditions contributed to a very strong growth last year. This year they're no better, and yet production goes much, much better. This government has done a lot more for the last 16 months for agriculture than anything that's been done in the last 10 years, the villagers know that well. Now, as far as the pensioners are concerned. Of course, it's not a topic today. It is certain that it is much better for them that today, as it was Monday, the start of retirement is no longer some news. Pensions come in time, and they can count on something that's certain and what's really grown. As for where we're going to be in 2006, let's see you in Jagodina. Bon appétit.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-11-0.u22087	Thank you. Here you go. On what basis are you answering? As an authorised representative of the SSJ parliamentary group, MP Borislav Pelevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-11-0.u22088	Dear citizens of Serbia, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr. Minister, listening to Mr. Djelic, it would be said that peasants and pensioners today are very happy. The reality is completely different. Mr. Minister, you've reduced pensioners by 12.4%, the same week that the salaries were raised to the MPs. This is your contribution to the pensioners of Serbia. Well done. They support it. Secondly, you said that farmers have guaranteed the price of buying their products. [[Sagar.]] You promised them, and I'll just mention the sunflower, a price of 15.75, that's the promised price by the ministry, both federal and republican. Then you paid them 12.00 dinars in three wars. It's your contribution to agricultural production. Next, I only have two questions for you. No one has ever submitted to this people an account, like a company or a company or any institution, how much money it was received from donations and what it was spent on. Tell me, Mr. Djelic, one company in Serbia that cares about its economic feet because of donations and donations; give me only one layer of Serbian citizens who live better because of donations. Let's not talk about the others. All I'm gonna say is health care. Go please and see how our healthcare workers do. Where are those donations that came to this country? You've never submitted a final bill to the citizens of Serbia. Another question for you, Mr. Djelic; which is why the SS is always two or three months behind on what belongs to us under the law, which is a miserable 105,000 dinars a month. All the other parties got orders and we'll pay for it, only we're two or three months late. In addition, in no place in Serbia we have received offices that belong to us as parliamentary foreigners. We pay in private everywhere, even in Belgrade. So now I'm asking you to completely delete us from your donation list, because we don't need your money for the Soviets, these miserable 105,000 a month, absolutely. So please don't help us anymore, because your help really hurts our heads. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-11-0.u22089	Thank you. Are any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, answering for a word? No, I don't. ) We continue the debate on the proposal for a law on the granting of counterguarantee to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia to pay off commitments under the mandate of the ZTP of Belgrade at the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, according to reports for the words of the MPs. The word has the People's MP Pal Shandor, the DOS parliamentary group, and the next reported for the word is MP Rajko Baralic, the SPS parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-11-0.u22090	Before you ask yourself what I'm going to talk about now, to say the following: I was in the O.R. 11 years ago when Mr. Zelenović demonstrated in the darkened ambience of the green stripe, the projections, which went blue, white, green, yellow lines and nothing, nothing was achieved. I feel a moral obligation to say that this is what we are now talking about, in our nature and in our structure, something quite different; we have the specific purposes, the reasons, the dynamics. I'm not an economist, and I can't say if the conditions are good, whether the rate of payment is good, whether it could have been better, but I have no reason to don't believe those who had the talks and who signed these arrangements. Generally, what I think about this is this: by giving these loans to the international community or its creditors, those who participate in lending, they still show us some trust, and that's a sign that we can rebirth, that we can produce something and that we can go in a good direction. This means, however, that we will not be a appendix on the European railway map, that we will somehow develop this infrastructure and that it will work better; and then, given the purchase of these locomotives and I don't know what, it means that we will generally contribute to what is called ecology, environmental protection, etc., because there is probably a significant impact on the reduction of road traffic, which seems irrelevant to us today, but this is the consumption of energy in some very different direction. I am particularly intrigued by this latest explanation, where it says: "Other projects to rehabilitate the railway network through Serbia also aim to improve the railway-transport services of this company and thus stimulate the economy in our country." Very broadly speaking. In this we recognize what could be said to be the construction of alternative spring routes, and where I live, in Vienna, which is a subregional economic centre, means connecting from Novi Sad, via Vienna, to Horgos, Segedin, or Subotica. It's one of the options, because this direction you have now, the New Sad - Subotica, if it doesn't work or if something happens, then there's nowhere to go. Therefore, in general, if experts have no objections to the terms of what is called the economic part of this loan, and all these macroeconomic, microeconomic reasons, I think this loan should be supported.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-11-0.u22091	The word has a folk MP Rajko Baralic, and the next one registered for the word is Stanko Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-11-0.u22092	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected journalists, giving counterguarantee to what the federal state guarantees is a perfectly normal procedure in the procedure of regulating the ratification of one state's obligations to the loans it takes for its own purposes. In some other circumstances, this story would not in any way motivate me to appear here in front of you, but there are a few things that are very much related to all of this, which can be considered from another angle. With that in mind, I'd say a few sentences. He told a previous debater that some diagram was shown in this hall once in darkened conditions. Now that diagram can be seen throughout Serbia, because in all of Serbia there is quite a lot of dark, very dense and can be cut with a knife. Anyone who wants it can easily check: 57m euros, with 570,000 euros in commission and 100,000 euros for consultants, four years in grace period, it is a typical commercial loan. It's not about a gift and it's not about a donation and it's not about any special trust. It's a classic financial and commercial arrangement -- one that has money gives to someone who has to take and pay the interest the trustee has set and that is worth it. The way these 57m euros are deployed is interesting. Mr. Minister, I would ask you, if possible, to get information on whether these 60 locomotives in Yugoslavia are being remounted, whether they are being done by Bucharest railways, Hungarian or French. It's very important, because I could say something about it. Who decided to remount these locomotives there, we still don't know where, and who predetermined the price? Then, was it possible to allocate part of the funds from this arrangement to several key systems that have very much to do with the railways, such as MIN, such as "Gosa" Smederjevska Palanka, The Car Factory in Kralje, "Livnica" Požega, "Shinvos", "Zelvos" and others; some of these companies are very capable, for example, as "Livnica" Požega. I mean, it's one of the pearls that works in the field of foundry in Serbia. Their slipper carriage has Krup's certificate, has ISO 9002, has a certificate of Bucharest railways, exports to Spain at the moment, exports to Germany and via high-quality coach slippers pay for the account of Yugoslav railway wagons. So it's a great company that could be even better with one financial injection. It is not seen here that these companies, which I am talking about here, will have concrete financial support and assistance, but these 57m euros will, above all, be deployed for a classic remont. What I'm particularly interested in is this under b) and v, Mr. Djelic, which you've given in the information we've received. Obviously, modernising light rail reconstruction systems will create conditions for a number of people to lose their jobs. Is this loan actually an opportunity for the railway to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to, and then sell to someone who's interested in buying it on a fairly favourable basis? It's very much like that story to me, and it would be good if you knew it here and told us. What interests me and Serbian citizens in particular is the direct damage the railway suffered from the worst NATO bombing: the 21st railway bridge was destroyed by NATO missiles. Only for the temporary reconstruction of the Žeželjev Bridge, it is a bridge at Baržam in Novi Sad, half a million euros were invested. To build a new Željev, or railway bridge that was where Željev was, it takes about 20m euros. How is it possible that direct damage of three billion euros, how much has the Public Enterprise of ZTP Belgrade suffered, is replaced by one small loan, which is taken by the country under commercial conditions and which is 57m euros? It is proof that the government has taken irresponsible actions and moves in connection with this, that it is taking the new credit that Serbian citizens should return, and that again, who knows which segment, is forgiving the war damage that has been caused in a way that is well known to everyone. NATO aggression began without a valid Security Council decision and the General Assembly. And, as it is possible for you to see all of this calmly, to take credit, to owe the citizens of Serbia, and to pay daily visits to people like Mr. Solana and other winemakers of one of the greatest disasters this people and this country have experienced in the past. That will, of course, be very interesting at the next point, which refers to counter-guarantees for the EPS loan. We were a polygon to examine various graphite and other fibers, we lost the entire energy system in just one day and now again, on the same principle, we take a new credit, we forgive war damage, we owe built Serbia and, of course, we pay it from the future inflow of income obtained from the taxpayers and citizens of Serbia. The questions I'm asking here are difficult, they're not easy to answer if there's a good intention. It would be good if the government of the Republic of Serbia and the president of the SRJ finally said publicly - did they or did they not forgive war damage? If so, who made that decision? If they're not, what they're going to do to get this country to start anything that's necessary to replace the damage that's incredibly high and that we can't relativize over the next 30 years, not just do what every other country in these conditions would do. You said nothing was invested in the railway: 22 railway bridges are trained to a level that can function, that Yugoslav, Serbian railways can function. Isn't that small, is it little in just a year, is it little without an international loan, is it little when you're engaged in a domestic construction operation and is it little when in conditions when no one gives you anything, when you're all haunted, when you're on a pillar of shame, you make one such venture? We have to say it, and we have to repeat it to each of us, in every place, that people understand what actually happened to us and what's happening to us right now. It is few 57m euros that in this way, in a way that has not been seen in the recent history, "replace the horn for a candle". It is impossible to agree to the conditions to be declared responsible and guilty by those who managed one country, and good, benefactors and people whose good services we allegedly see every day, those people and those persons who held the triggers at NATO aggression. I know it's not easy for you to hear, I understand your position, but, uh, that position is getting worse with both this loan and all the other loans that are being taken in this way, day by day, no matter how personal you are right now. (Zoran Micovic, from the scene: If someone believed you. ) Of course, Mr. Micovic, that someone trusts me very much, and of course we have those we address, that each of us has its own target group. The SPS target group is Serbia. I would ask you to allow me, in a way that provides for this democratic Rules of Procedure, to finish what I intend to do. Thank you for your help, Mr. Micovic, you're very kind, only, of course, I don't agree to that kind of help. It was Mr Djelic's remark that two-thirds of the total expenditure, made by the railways in Serbia, was touched by the budget. It's just a high percentage. There isn't, Mr. Djelic, no railways in Europe that function at all cost. Every railroad, on a smaller or larger scale, is being donated by the states. That's why the railroads are national. There are moments in the history of every nation and every country when the railroad plays one of those roles that no other system can play. That was the role our railways played during NATO aggression. We're not a state without tradition when it comes to railways. Nis-Belgrade, one of the oldest railways in the Balkans. Everything that has been done in recent times for the Yugoslav, or Serbian railways has been done in line with the possibilities. You said that 4% of the special rail tax should no longer work, we understood that as your contribution to discharging Serbia's economy. You are taking credit for the same railway today, which the same citizens of Serbia must return. It's exactly the same pattern, except now we're returning this with interest and only now you're, of course, getting the air to explain that now this is something else. It's not something else, it's first. So who knows which way you change the thesis, as well as the television subscription, as with many other things -- everything you say won't be -- there will be; and of course, there will be interest. For the reasons I've stated, we can't support this as you suggested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-11-0.u22093	The word has been made by MP Stanko Kovacevic, the DOS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-11-0.u22094	Dear Members of Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, I didn't think it was necessary to go out for a pay phone to support the proposal of these two legislative acts, but the explanation we received from the minister regarding the implementation of these two legislative proposals and some discussions at first gave me the idea to go out for this speaker anyway to say a few words about these proposals. First, both of these legislative proposals were to come on the agenda of our Assembly much earlier, because the needs required such a thing, because of the efficient realization of these approved loans, but it is certain that because of the overbooking of our Assembly's work we were unable to put on the agenda much earlier these two points of the agenda. But it should be pointed out that this is one of the few cases, when we have legal proposals here in the debate, that the competent ministry provides us with specific arguments regarding the legal proposals, as Mr Djelic has now provided us, which really gives us all the information on the effects and necessity of the realization of these two legal projects. In his arguments, Mr. Minister listed six effects here. One of them is not sufficiently reasoned, one of the possible effects is not put into these arguments at all, so I'd like to point out. So, one of the very significant effects of realising these funds from the European Bank's loan practically means that a large number of our economic resources will be engaged in this realisation, especially large systems from the meditation complex, such as "Minel", "Termoelectrico", "MIN" - Nis; in the domain railways and "Shinvos", "Zelvos" and some other economic capacities. This will also have major stimulating economic effects, as it will allow economic operators and workers employed by these economic operators to work and earn income. Also, the direct effects of these loans will be determined and budgeting, clearly through the tax on services, through taxes and contributions to personal incomes, so these effects are not listed here at all. And, in the end, I would like to point out that the effects through the first two rail-related programmes will mean exactly the realisation of the agreement between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the railway workers' union, which is related to the creation of conditions for overcoming the situation that the railway workers have entered into the general strike. This is not indicated here either, and exactly the first two rail restructuring programmes, so the means to do so, will lead to the mitigation of social problems by realising these jobs. And in the end, I would like to point out -- two MPs in their debates have expressed one concern and one claim. The inconceivability of one MP was related to the issue of the country's current duty to abroad. That's the answer he got, but he voiced a doubt - are we even going to be able to get it back? Well, first of all, the creditor keeps an eye on whether the creditor will be able to repay those funds within the approved period. And, if the European Bank were not aware of the facts and confidence that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and citizens will, in their work, create conditions for the effective return of these loans, our country would not have been granted these loans, because the logic of capital is very clear: it does not go where there is no chance of being returned. The second claim made by one MP after this speaker refers to our minister, Mr Djelic. He said -- the start of the repayment of these loans has been going on since 2006, Minister Djelic will not then be in this function where he is now, and otherwise he will give all his property. I believe and argue that Minister Djelic will not be in the position he is now in in 2006, because with his work and the results of his work so far, he has shown that he is far beyond the place now held by the finance minister of a developing country, in economic difficulties. I believe that in 2006, it may be one of the World Bank, European Bank, International Development Fund, and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-11-0.u22095	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Ljubomir Mucic, the SPS parliamentary group, and the next reported is Hranislav Peric, also the SPS, who has 30 minutes to discuss.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-11-0.u22096	Dear People's MPs, the participants of this afternoon's talk room, Mr. Minister, Madam Chairman, I would like to ask you that if I can participate in the debate on both points and not report for a fifth-point discussion - a counter-guarantee that will be given to the EPS. I would suggest and suggest to the minister that he doesn't deal with a lot of agricultural topics, because some things haven't happened since the raven blacked out, which our people say - that cherryes are more expensive than bananas, so that they're in the price range of raspberries... It's not exactly a market, it's got other merits. [[growls]] Every extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly this year was marked by the new borrowing of the Serbian country. This extraordinary session included two counter-guarantees, a total of 157m euros, or 340 million old marks, that we sent out yesterday, or 10 billion dinars. The first counter-guarantee of the SRJ on loan to the Public Enterprise Elektroprivreda Srbija for an emergency reconstruction project of the energy sector of 100m euros and other SRJ counter-guarantee as a loan guarantee for the ZTP "Belgrade" project for the reconstruction of the ZTP "Belgrade" of 57m euros. This time as a creditor, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development appears. Credit arrangements to the republican public enterprises are merely confirmation that the promised donations are pre-election past and fraud. The long-term process in the negotiations and strict conditions of payment security, although it is a state-owned loan, is a clear confirmation that the government's assessment of favourable conditions for investment and investment in Serbia does not stand. Since we discussed these draft laws at the board meeting yesterday, I would like to say that, indeed, in a contract concluded between Serbia's GTP and the EPS with the European Bank, the date of 25.10.2001 stands with the contract that SRJ gave the guarantee to the GPTP and the EPS, respectively, on 25.10.2002. I would ask Mr. Minister - whether this agreement on support for the project between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development should be signed and authorised on behalf of the Government, and the contract is concluded on 25.10.2002. That's how it stands at the beginning of this contract that needs to be closed. So, in addition to those numbered commas, it should be corrected in this project support contract, both in the case of one and the other, that the date of completion or the date on which the Assembly gave the guarantee or that it was 25.10.2001, not in 2002. I think we agree on that. Another very important question that supports these assessments is - which country do we give or approve of counterguarantees? What kind of state will exist at the moment we repay the loan, and as long as this country lasts. Nor can it be guaranteed that what is provided for in Article 4 that the dinar asset equivalent of 157m euros is increasing, or falling depending on the change in the rate of the euro compared to the rate of the dinar, at the time of the commitment. What happens by 2016 and who and how will repay this loan? As for the loan to the ZTP, I asked for a preliminary review of the counter-guarantee, and here before this session we received concrete conditions about the means to be determined, the way these funds will be used, but only under certain conditions. Of the 57m euros planned for the railway, 10m euros is defined for funding the social programme, i.e. requalification, retirement and other ways to take care of railway workers. Just in the first part, 2.5m euros and 7.5m euros are foreseen for the implementation of two phases of the work restructuring plan, provided that the number and time frame for over-numbered workers are provided; criteria for selecting over-numbered workers; conditions for the payment of the compensation to specific categories of workers; proposals for retraining and other measures to mitigate this issue; to bring new labour relations legislation and to propose a new railway law. As far as I know, the new railway law has not yet been proposed by the government, which means that even this counter-guarantee is not valid at the moment. Also, I would like to ask a very important and important question, which is - in the conditions given here as a guarantee and counter-guarantee, it is said that the borrower cannot obtain any new long-term debt, or cannot be in debt unless the borrower shows the ability which, this is important, satisfactory for the bank to provide such an additional debt. What does that mean? Will the ZTP "Belgrade" and EPS be able to continue to be in debt, if they find more favourable terms of credit or more significant funds, in order to complete the complete programmes on reconstruction and training and locomotives and railways, as well as on reconstruction and improvement of the situation in transmission systems within the EPS? Does this mean, Minister, that with these guarantees and the counter-guarantee of the EPS, or the ZTP will no longer be able to be in debt without the consent of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, as already written on page 24 of this text. I would also suggest that, if it is established under the Budget System Law on certain guarantees and counter-guarantees, regardless of whether they are given to the Republic public undertakings or to the federal state, that in the next period, (and I think that this is our obligation under the Budgetary System Act) when adopting such guarantees and counter-guarantees and all decisions on borrowing, we get the information on all these records and the overall debt of the Republic. I think it really is very important in this period, especially for the EPS, given that at this point in time, the situation in the transmission systems is the most difficult. In the end, I would ask one question - what about the damages caused by the bombing, whether their assessment is done, how much is it and what are the funds that are in the overall EPS programme for improving the transmission system, meaning, from energy sources to consumers, whether it's energy systems for high voltage transmission or the electricity distribution network. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-11-0.u22097	I'm setting a break by 15.00 hours and we'll continue the debate after the break.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-11-0.u22098	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session in the afternoon. To determine if there is a quorum for work, please place your identification cards in the MPs. I find that we have a quorum to work with and continue the debate in the order of the registered speakers. The word is given by MP Hranislav Peric, the last registered speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-11-0.u22099	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, today's law on the granting of a counter-guarantee for payment of obligations under the responsibility of the Public Enterprise "Electroprivreda Serbia" and ZTP "Belgrade". I'm going to talk about a loan for Elektroprivreda, so I don't pick up afterwards, because these duties are the same and the law is the same in all the members. There were different opinions here. The SPS deputies are against debt and credit, while Minister Djelic explains it differently. Our position is to free the world's banks from our resources. Electricity and rail facilities are the most damaged during the bombing. Why don't we make up for the damage to those facilities, and then see how much credit we should take. The law is very short and has only five members, who are financially weighing 100m euros for Serbia. Since you are constantly in the polls, why haven't you conducted a survey among Serbian citizens whether they are in charge or not. There's not much to explain. Since the law is short, I will try to read it, quote it, and then it will be clear to everyone what it is: "The Republic of Serbia assumes the obligation, as a counterguarantee, to settle the obligations of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, as a guarantor for the loan of the Public Enterprise of "Electroprivreda of Serbia", as a borrower, at the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, for a project of an emergency reconstruction of the energy sector of 100m euros", all within 10 years. There are many questions, and it was likely necessary to take a good look at it and answer many questions, whether or not it had to be done with the task. So this isn't the task of borrowing Elektroprivreda, and then selling it or giving it up for debt? Do we want to write off our debts to the citizens again, what they were promised? Does Montenegro also have a obligation to bring counterguarantees, since it is the obligations of the Republic of Yugoslavia? How long are we gonna be in debt? Only a bad host is in debt. That is why it is the view of our Socialists not to accept the task, to use the internal options from the collection of residual debts, then from the budget, from many taxes imposed on everyone other than the air. Why don't they give us back our money, but they keep us on interest and in debt? Where are the donations? I'm just listing questions that can be asked in the context of these duties. There are probably other questions. Since I am currently coming from Meroshin municipality, I have been asked by citizens. Farmers would like to ask the head of the MP club Cedu Jovanovic and Minister Djelic to inform Agriculture Minister Veselinov to leave, walk to Merošina and explain to the cherry producers why the cherry is 15 dinars this year, and last year there were 24 dinars. What are the cost of production? Why is there no credit and why the government does not help, because many farmers will most likely decide not to pick. Please pass it on to the Minister of Agriculture when he returns from hunting or poaching, since he's most likely not here.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-11-0.u22100	This concluded the debate in the order of the registered speakers, and since the lists of MPs are no longer registered for the word, I would like to ask whether they want to speak to the president or to someone who has not used his right under Article 89. The Rules of Procedure of the Assembly? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a principled search and opening a search of the draft law in particular. Since amendments have not been tabled on the proposal for this law, before the search is concluded in particular whether the proposing representative wants to give the final word? The word has a minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-11-0.u22101	Thank you. I'd just like to give a few elements to a few questions that were raised during the debate. First of all, as far as this point of the agenda is concerned, I would just like to say that this will, of course, have a positive effect on our economy. The most favourable effect of this loan for ZTP will be reflected in MIN "Nish" and MIN "Skrelig" which will work anywhere where they have production capacities. They will, and this is very clearly indicated in the loan itself, at least 40% of the value of the works will do. We can say that through this loan, through this fresh money. Three years of big business for one of our most important businesses in one of the most important cities. At the same time on 20 June this year, which is something I did not mention in the opening statement, there is another loan from the European Investment Bank, which is 70m euros, which is conditioned by the vote of this counterguarantee. So it would be a story of whether it's enough or not. Of course, the additional 70m euros now in the procedure in the Federal Assembly will not be enough to solve all the problems of the ZTP. However, this second one, which is a division of work, if you will, between the two institutions, is focused on railways, track construction and signal-security facilities from the telecommunications system. This second loan will start, and you will get through a few weeks if not in a few months, the same counter-guarantee for that loan, to apply, and there is a difference between the European Investment Bank and the European Development Bank. The guarantee to be voted in the Federal Assembly will be sufficient to begin the loan. The loan will restore the following railways: Nis-Dimitrovgrad, Čortanovci-Peterovaradin, Kusadak-Great Plan, as well as Resnik-Valjevo. If we look at those side works that I've been talking about, there's a whole series of our construction companies: "Standard", "Planum", "Energoproject", as well as companies that work on the upper machine, and there's our biggest and only company in that domain "Zgob" Novi Sad. So also the EI "Ephesum" signal plant, "Sigma" Subotica and many smaller factories and shops that will work with these large companies. It is an additional injection and, of course, it is not an accident that countries that are in reconstruction as well as our country are first looking for funds to rebuild the infrastructure, because infrastructure, railways, energy, roads and many other things have a chain effect on the rest of the economy, and that re-launchs that wheel. A few more notes. As for one remark, since one MP has succeeded (and I congratulate him) quite quickly to read the contract itself, there is indeed a provision under which new creditors now want to see what happens to new responsibilities. That's good. It is therefore an additional mechanism to avoid the re-negotiation of the public company ZTP "Belgrade", as it will also require the sovereign guarantee of our state. I see that as a very positive thing. Finally, and that's a little bit out of the strict framework of this debate, there have been a lot of questions about whether it's going to credit our economy. Of course it's going. The same institution, the European Bank for Development and Reconstruction, has built on our insistence a specific credit programme for trade funds. Several companies, "Tiger" in Piroth or "Hemofarm", have already received multimillion funds for these purposes. In addition, the same institution, with the help of various other institutions, formed last April so-called last year. Myco Financial Bank, which funds entrepreneurs. Of course, interest could be lower, but they reflect what you will reduce, and these are secondary financial transactions, as well as commissions; and also the risk of operating with us. We can see that more than 20,000 entrepreneurs got credit that way. It is only the beginning, with the return of savings to our banks, a billion and 600 German marks; the arrival of new banks on our market; with the reduction of inflation, and now at 9.6% on the annual level; with the tax reduction on financial transactions, if you adopt that at the next session, and that is point 3, I mean the agenda), as well as the abolition of the PDO fee, we will have significantly cheaper capital prices in our country. As for our economy, it will receive a significant advance. The last thing I want to mention is what is foreseen in the budget rebalancing; it is the formation of a guarantee fund for the financing of our entrepreneurs, including peasants, who today cannot come to credit, because they do not have the opportunity to meet the requirements of the mortgage, because they do not have real estate or if they do, it is not registered, which is our inheritance. For this reason, in order to help the market allow these entrepreneurs to reach credit, the government of the Republic of Serbia will propose to you to form a fund of approximately 600 million dinars in budget rebalancing to encourage lending in that domain as well. To conclude, I hope you will vote on the day of the vote for this counter-guarantee. It's really a very important element of movement, not only of our railways, but of our entire economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-11-0.u22102	I thank the Minister of Finance, Mr. Bozidar Djelic. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a review of the draft law in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle and in general and will be notified in good time. Now I'm setting a break and we'll continue our work tomorrow. So, next item of the agenda tomorrow at 10.00. Bon appétit. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the Second Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, the session is attended by 130 MPs. Please insert identification cards into your MPs to determine the quorum. I find that the application of the electronic system has established that we have a quorum and that we can continue to work. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Mirko Rosic, Vlasimir Budimovic, Sima Radulović, Momir Radoičić, Slobodan Pavlovic, Predrag Stojanović, Milos Lučić, Jelena Milenković, Zoran Bošković and Jon Cisamaš. In the morning absent: Cedomir Jovanovic, Goran Vesic, Dragan Sutanovac and Natasa Milojevic. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-President, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. Also, according to members 83 and 84. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that I invited representatives of the Centre for Free Elections and Democracy, the People's Movement "Resist" and the National Democratic Institute to this session. I welcome the guests present. You have received the resignations of Radoslav Veseinović, Mr Branislav Pomoriško, Goran Ćirić, Gorica Mojović, Goran Vesić, Jožef Kasa, Petar Misic, Višnja Nežić, Aleksandra Joksimović, Alena Selimović, Prof. Dr. Stevan Lilić, Nebojsa Leković and Zivice Predoje as a member of the National MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the report of the Administrative Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the examination of these resignations, with a proposal that the National Assembly, based on Article 88(2) and paragraphs 2 and 3. The Law on the selection of Members of the People's Parliaments establishes the termination of the term of office of those Members of Parliament. In accordance with Article 88(2) and paragraphs 2 and 3. The Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Administrative Board, finds that the mandate ended, before the end of the time they were elected, to the MPs Radoslav Vesenović, Mr Branislav Pomoriško, Goran Ciric, Gorica Mojović, Goran Vesić, Jožefu Kasi, Petar Misic, Visnja Nežić, Aleksandri Joksimović, Alena Selimović, Prof. Dr. Stevana Lilić, Nebojsa Leković and Liveci Predoje, elected from the election list Democratic Opposition Serbia - Dr. Vojislav Kostunica. With the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the discharge of seats will be carried out in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You have received a request from the Democratic Opposition of Serbia - Dr Vojislav Kostunica, to establish the end of the mandate for the MPs Dusan Budišin, Dusan Golubovic, Vladimir Dobrosavljevic, Dr Ljubisa Đoković, Dusan Ilic, Vladan Jovičić, Dragan Jočić, Nenad Lemajic, Dragan Maršićin, Petar Majarevic, Sladjan Miajlovic, Radmila Milosevic, Dejan Mihajlov, Radomer Naumov, Zoran M. Nikolic, Vasilija Pavic, Milutin Svedovic, Svetlana Stojanović, Vukosav Tomasevic, Djorđa Čuquas, Dragan Šormaz and Ruži Veljović, selected from the electoral list of the Democratic opposition of Serbia - Dr Vojislav Stojanović, Vojstovićić, Vukosav Tomašević and the National Assembly of Serbia's 2nd and the National Assembly of Serbia's Committee on the 1nd and 2nd and the National Assembly's positioning 2nd Amendment's position. The Law on the selection of Members of the People's Parliaments establishes the termination of the term of office of those Members of Parliament. According to Article 88(1) and paragraphs 2 and 3. Law on the election of MPs, National Assembly, on a proposal from the Administrative Board finds that the mandate ended, before the end of the time to which they were elected, the MPs Dusan Budišin, Dusan Golubovic, Vladimir Dobrosavljevic, Dr Ljubisa Đokovic, Dusan Ilic, Vladan Jovičić, Dragan Jočić, Nenad Lemajic, Dragan Maršićin, Petar Majarević, Sladjan Mijalovic, Radmila Milosevic, Dejan Mihajlov, Radomer Naumov, Zoran M. Nikolic, Vasilija Pavić, Milutinović, Svetlana Stojanović, Vukosavo Tomasevic, Djordz Čuquas, Dragan Šormaz and Ružica Veljović, selected from the election list of the Democratic Party of Serbia. According to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, parliamentary seats will be filled in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We continue to work on the established agenda... (Employees of the Democratic Party of Serbia return the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and their identification cards and leave the hall. Goodbye. We move to the 6th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a CONTRAGATION OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA OF THE CONTRACTING OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA WITH THE EUROPEAN REPUBLIC FOR THE REFERENCE OF OBLIGATION BY THE JP OF THE "ELECTROPRIVATION OF SERBIA" IN THE EUROPEAN REGULATION AND RURRATION BANK You have received the bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours and I ask the parliamentary groups to submit me a list of registered speakers on this agenda point. I'm opening a principled search. Does Mr Bozidar Djelic, Minister of Finance and Economy want a word? The word has Minister Bozidar Djelic.
