ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21167	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, the session is attended by 135 MPs. To determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units. I figure we have a quorum and we can keep working. On the basis of Article 103. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I give a warning to MP Boris Stanimirovic, who sits on the seventh row on the left and MP Velimir Zivojinovic, for failing to insert identification cards and sitting in the hall at the time of the quorum's determination. We will wait for MPs who do not meet their obligations, who do not participate in the security of the quorum, to take their seats. I want to give you a brief notice. Before this session began, I was pleased to receive and speak with the President of Bundestag, Mr. Wolfgang Tirse, who conveyed greetings and support. I would like to inform you that they are prevented from attending the following MPs: Radomir Naumov, Vlatko Sekulović, Branimir Trajkovic, Petar Misic, Zoran Boskovic, Milena Andrić, Milutin Svetović, Natasa Milojevic, Miroslav Markicevic, Dragoslav Boskovic, Vukosav Tomaševic, Juhas Atila, Višnja Nežić, Arsen Kurjački and Miomir Tadic. In the morning, Momcilo Trajkovic, Sredoje Mihajlov and Ružica Veljovic, were absent. The boy Trajkovic is present. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Secretariat for Law. Also, according to members 83 and 84. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that the president of the National Assembly has called on representatives of the Centre for Free Elections and Democracy, representatives of the Student Union of Serbia, representatives of the Alliance of Students of Belgrade, students of the Study Group for Constitutional Law at the Faculty of Law in Belgrade, representatives of the National Movement of the Resistance, representatives of the Low Student Association and representatives of the Student Federation. Before we continue to work on the 8th item of the agenda, we should decide on a proposal for an urgent procedure. Namely, the Committee on Justice and Administration, pursuant to Article 159(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, he proposed that, following an urgent procedure, the Committee be put on the agenda of this session - a proposal for candidates to elect a permanent member of the High Council of Justice, elected by the National Assembly, which was submitted to the Supreme Court of Serbia on 21 February 2002, and National MP Natasa Micic, i.e., suggested that this point be considered after the 8th item of the agenda -- a draft law amending and supplementing the Law on High School. I am putting on the vote the proposal of the Committee on Justice and Administration to put on the agenda of this session a proposal for a permanent member of the High Council of Justice elected by the National Assembly, with my proposal to consider this point after the 8th point of the agenda. For 125, against 12, the abstentions were not voted 39, out of 176 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal for urgent consideration. We're continuing our work on the agenda. We move to the 8th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on High School (Statistics) You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Velimir Simonović, Dragisa Popović, Zeljjo Hurić; together Milan Radulović, Bojana Aleksic; jointly Bojana Aleksic, Vladimir Andrić, Marina Stamenković, Milan Radulović and Nenad Lemajić; together Slobodan Pavlovic, Živko Selaković, Istvan Išpanović; jointly Leila Ruždić-Trifunović and Stevan Lilic; Vitomir Plužarić, Srboljub Žužarović, Zlatan Jovanovic, Gordana Pop-Lazić, Dragan Colić, Bozidar Vužarić, Bozidar Vučurović, Veroljub Arsic, Goran Cvetanovic, Ljubor Kragović, Milorad Mirčić, Dragoljubić, Slobodan Janjić, Slobodan Janjić, Nataža Janjić, Nata Ivanović, Natažar Vučar Vučarić, Zavić, Tožar Dragić, Dragić, Dragić, Dragić, Dragić, Dragić, Dragić, Draga Draga Draga Draga Draga Draga Draga Dragažić, Dragažić. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. National MP Pal Shandor has submitted untimely amendments to the bill. At the meeting of the Committee on the Education of the Amendment, MP Velimir Simonovic withdrew from the members of 14th and 19th, accepting the amendment of the MPs; at the meeting of the Committee on Education, the Representative of the Government of the Republic of Serbia withdrew the government's amendments to Articles 12 and 24. National MP Zlatan Jovanovic, in writing, withdrew the amendment to Article 27. It's a bill of law. You have received reports from the Committee on Education, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on International Relations. Since the National Assembly, after a joint principle search has been concluded, under which the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on High Schools has been discussed, has adopted the proposal for this law in principle, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. I am putting the proposal on the basis of Article 138, that the time of the debate be limited to three minutes, since we have accepted this proposal for amendments and additions to the elementary school law. That proposal shall be put in place following the opening of the search. I'm putting a motion to vote, to limit the debate and to take three minutes. From the O.R. Whose proposal is it? I am also a National MP. For 116, against 42, a abstentioned one, was not voted 22, a total of 181 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal from the National MP Natasa Micic that the time for discussion in particular will be limited to three minutes. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Is anyone answering for a word under this amendment? Yeah. ) Here you are, MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21168	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the question is whether to repeat the argument, the discussion. There's a microphone here, this is about the minister here. Whether to repeat the whole debate that was led on the draft law on elementary school is almost 95% identical changes. It won't be hard for us to work. We will repeat the argument presented in the debate on the proposal for a law on elementary school. Because it can happen that, by repeating lessons, you come up with certain knowledge, and that later it affects your decisions, at least when it comes to some other law proposals. This is about one fundamental position - whether we have the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, whether we have positive legislation or not. If the Constitution of Serbia prohibits physical punishment, then the question is why in the law on high school to set up a constitutional provision and quote it, to God, by representing the situation as if they could have beaten students so far, and now that we're passing this law, today these rights of teachers, directors, school secretary, aunt, cleaning lady stop and from today on, no one can beat children in school anymore. No one had to physically punish and harass a child until today, by asking the question of this second part of the sentence - what does it mean to insult a student's personality? Is the poor assessment you give the child an insult to his personality? As soon as you evaluate someone and have a sovereign right to punish them, even by repeating the year at that school, the question arises whether his personality is offended and injured, whether he was not capable enough to master that object or the teacher was unable to transfer the knowledge he has or, at least, by reading the subject, many do so, help the child to reach some minimum of knowledge that would allow him to cross over in the coming year. We have suggested something else, that what is already regulated do not regulate, that you regulate what is not regulated, and that is a famous political organization in schools, which you have and how well you have used in these years, and that is the purpose of school rooms. You can't tell any director now - you can't approve of a political gathering in an elementary or high school room. You can't, it's not illegal. So far it has been forbidden to use school, school space for political organisation, operation, meaning for any political event, and now even that provision from the law is being deleted. I understand that you've improved the law, that you've strengthened it by something that hasn't been regulated so far, and I'm saying that everything has been regulated, by having a problem with the sexual definition mentioned in your proposal for a law on broadcasting. (President: I warn you of an excessive amount of time. I'm surprised you didn't bring a student here to be harassed by his sexual commitment, because that's what you introduce for adults in the broadcasting law. Why don't you look after kids like that? If your goal is to make our sexual commitment so broadly manifest that we all have at least two sexes, then it should start from primary and high school. All in all, we remain with the amendment, as we will remain with all the amendments that we have tabled on this bill and I suggest you vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21169	Does anyone else sign up for a word? The word has a minister of education and sports, Mr. Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21170	Madam Chairman, the presidency, the honourable MPs, this look is the result of a car accident, and I apologize to you for it. At the same time, I want to thank the assembly administration and the management, who have made what you now see possible. I would like to tell you that I fully consider the Radical Party's legitimate position to remain with all amendments. This is the right that stems from calling MPs, although this whole haste and my coming to the Assembly is dictated by our need to publish an ad for enrolment in the first year of high school. That's why we were forced to act like this. I can honestly say that I hope everyone doesn't share the Radical Party's position, so they won't repeat the argument because it's true that they're the same amendments; but I can't dispute that right. I'd say something about physical punishment, which Mr. Nikolic pointed out. Unfortunately, we have reports of teachers beating students. We just wanted to say something that's meant to be said. Of course there is this constitutional provision, but this is necessary to sanction, because there has been physical child abuse in downtown Belgrade. We have the data, and this is our attempt to stop it. I fear that the Serbian Radical Party will unfairly build up its arguments on a more valuable DOS complex, because the fact that there was political organisation in schools is not due to our organised work, but to the way we live in this country, which then produced the country's leadership. Dissatisfaction spread all over the place, so it went to school. That's how I understand it. Our goal is to heal the school in the future, and as far as political and other types of organization are concerned, and as far as this punishment of students is concerned. Of course the question remains, and the students are rude, and they are aggressive towards teachers. There's legal responsibility, and we think that's how we're gonna stop it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21171	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate applying for a word on this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 54, against 117 abstentions, there was no vote of 10, out of 181 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Djura Lazic. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The word has an amendment bearer, MP Djura Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21172	Dear Presidency, Honored colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, Amendment to Article 1. I submitted the draft law amending and supplementing the High School Act on behalf of the SPS, or parliamentary group of my party. This amendment is more about some technical changes to this article, although there is one fundamental amendment behind these amendments, i.e. by accepting these amendments, this article would be, in my opinion, more comprehensive. First of all, the amendment to heading 1 refers to the third row being deleted by the word "or," and in order to fully understand the essence of this attitude, I would read the whole position to see why I ask that this word be deleted. Article 1 states: "The school prohibits activities that threaten or degrade groups and individuals based on racial, national, language, religious or semi-political orientation, as well as the promotion of such activities." My suggestion is to delete the word "or" without all the other texts staying. By the way, as far as this attitude is concerned, I must say, in the current law, the obligation of the school to protect the student from political action and to adhere to all international conventions on child protection. However, the fact is that the current government, and the former opposition, did not respect these regulations and significantly abused children for political purposes. We Socialists have always supported positive regulations and the International Convention on Child Protection. Always in the past, representatives of the coalition in power have called for international organisations, international conventions on the equality of all, on the elimination of racial and national discrimination. I think it's all right, even in the Labour Act, one member was envisaged and contained the elimination of this discrimination, which I personally, explaining my amendment, agreed to. However, let me tell you that this international community, which asks us to comply with all these provisions, violates those provisions. I will give you an example in Kosovo and Metohija, where representatives of the international community discriminate against Roma children, because they do not want to be driven with Serbian children primarily to attend classes in Serbian. In this way, Roma children are denied the right to school in Serbian, which they have studied in so far. What is behind this -- in addition to open discrimination, is the intention of the international community to continue to pressure Roma, primarily Roma children, to assimilate them and force them to attend schools in the Shiparian language. It is the same method of assimilation of the Roma, which was done starting with the 1971 census, and so on. So, by this example, I wanted to point out the plight of the representatives of the international community, who are asking us to respect something, and they're breaking it themselves. As far as Article 2 is concerned...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21173	I'm warning you of a time-out, Mr. Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21174	Excuse me, Madam President, allow me two more sentences to complete the explanation of this amendment. I consider it necessary to protect the rights and personality of all participants, not just children, but all participants in the educational and educational process at school. Teached by examples over the last two years, we suggest that all school workers be protected because they are increasingly endangering teachers and school workers. The government's explanation of the refusal of this amendment states that this provision is contained in the Labour Act. However, my opinion is that it is not a waste to be in attitude 2. ("At school, physical punishment and insult of students are forbidden") adds only the word "and workers". In this way, I think that we would fully protect workers from all unsolicited events. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21175	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? There is a word from MP Vladimir Garcevic, the mandated representative of the SPS parliamentary group for this item of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21176	The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, as a man I wish you a healing; fellow MPs, regardless of what our watching through this article is not accepted, I will, unfortunately, mention this advanced Europe; and a fresh example, negative and public, is a German example - of 13 murdered professors. On the other hand, in our environment, on the eve of May 1st, we also had a case of a murdered professor. The basic question arises - if Europe, you say, brings happiness and progress, and as you can see, individual examples, and there are probably individual examples in the professor's case, indicate that we have to create such miles in our education that all participants of the process are protected - why is it running here? Well, the basics are this -- they want the current government to say, you know, they've previously allowed children to fight, so teachers took poles and chased students. It's hard to be a professor today. It's hard to be a teacher. What I'm trying to say is, in that profession, we're more and more trying to throw ourselves at something that's not the rule, instead of raising it, and that work and the pawning, that people are doing to respect, to protect them. The question is raised with fellow professors, who say - so shall we advise the child more? Where are we going? I am for respecting the person of the students, and if I respect it, let my students say so, but I am also for the reverse attitude -- we have, however, in one article that's listed, but it doesn't show everything that needs to be seen. On the other hand, where parents belong in this process, looking by the law, do we now, and we have the parents' abuse against teachers. Does that mean that everything that's out of professors we support - let them do it, and teachers as a profession will be silent, patient and patient as long as they can endure. So hundreds of thousands of teachers, or teachers, are involved in the process of work, I guess they are human beings, with their weaknesses and virtues. If we look at them as we look at both students and parents, then in the Law on Education, we should find and establish normal harmony, which is necessary when entering a building, or educational institution. Speaking of which, it was necessary to accept the view that everything was protected; this is what we say - the labour law. Nothing in the Labour Act means to a professor when he's being harassed by a student. What does that mean? Doesn't mean anything to Professor Labour Act, when there's a parent who's going to harass him. So we're just protecting, and the profession of 100,000 people isn't protected materially, not protected by housing, not protected by anything like this. So who do we need to protect everything? I respect children, but children have a certain limit. These aren't children, these are grown men already. Therefore, certain favourable solutions must be found, which will be favourable for both teachers and parents, and for students. This time I don't think we're doing it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21177	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 54, against 100, the abstentions were not voted 24 out of 178 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Lazar Marjanski. The government and the Education Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The applicant for the amendment is not present. Does anyone else want a word? There is a word from MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, the authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group for this agenda point.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21178	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Ambassador Lazar Marjanski is unable to explain his amendment because he is in the SRS delegation, headed by Professor Vojislav Seselj, who is visiting Iraq to take part in the work of the Baghdad Conference. That's why I'll explain his amendment. Article 2 The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on High School - intervenes and amends the existing Article 10 which speaks of administrative supervision, inspection and professional - pedagogical supervision of school work. In one part, we have given an amendment that is purely technical in nature, regarding legal logic and legal terminology, because attitude 2 says that the Ministry of Education and Sports (hereinafter referred to as the Ministry of Education) - this is really not the usual thing, when a reduction of the name is done, because then only the Ministry remains there, so it has always been so far. This is a purely termological nature, but because of the purity of the legal language, we have given that amendment. The second part of the amendment follows the logic that we had at primary school, which refers to point 3 item 6), where the promoter says that the Ministry of Education is performing professional - pedagogical supervision, lists what this means and under point 3) is an evaluation of the quality of the school's work. We don't think that's a good formula. It is simply impossible to value the quality of school work and remains unclearly further from the law - how is that even possible, on what criteria to do? Is there going to be some sublegal act that will have some criteria, so at the end of a school year, for example? in some daily magazine or newsletter of the Ministry of Education to read - in Belgrade, high school from 1st to 15th, is the highest quality, then ranked all others, then secondary schools. We don't see what the goal of this quality of work is, and we think it's simply impossible to do. For this reason, we asked that this point be changed and that it reads: "The evaluation of the quality of the work of teachers, professional associates and educators at school, or the home of students"; this is quite possible on the basis of basic criteria. Then, how many students had passed with an excellent estimate, how many had fallen to the correctional. Because, however, we have to face the truth that there are teachers who have a dozen or fifteen students, from one class, who fall to juvie, and there's no question of their professional pedagogical work, or how much they're really capable of conveying knowledge, and whether it's just a lack of student or a teacher's guilt. Therefore, the amendment is meaningful, and the Ministry of Education is certainly able to assess each teacher in the professional and pedagogical supervision far more comprehensively than what was proposed by the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21179	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Here's a word from the Minister of Education, Mr. Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21180	It's our great interest to keep the school appraisal. I'm asking a messenger who spoke to her to listen, this is her direct answer. I'm sorry. Schools can be measured and that's possible through state graduation. The entrance exams in this school year are exactly a step between the old way of passing and the new state's graduation. When you have a centralized system of prom exams, then on the student ranking, which goes from number one and ends with the number of students who even passed that exam, that admission exam groupes students on a certain scale. If most belong, or one number belongs to one school, it is very easy to reach a conclusion on the quality of one school, bigger or smaller. So technically it's very easy to do. The second question is, will your data be available? In my opinion, these data shouldn't be public, because someone's putting themselves in an awkward situation, some school, but I think at the educational level, that information should be known. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21181	Does anyone else sign up for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 55, against 96, the abstentions were not voted 27, out of 178 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 2. The amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Bojana Alexic, Vladimir Andric, Marina Stamenkovic, Milan Radulovic and Nenad Lemajic. The Government and the Education Committee have adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee believes this amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MP Dragan Pantelic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 2a be added after Article 2. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 53, against 93, there are no abstentions, he did not vote 31, out of 177 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Leila Ruzdic - Trifunovic and Stevan Lilic together submitted an amendment proposing that a new Article 2a be added after Article 2. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Amendment applicants are not present. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For two, against 113 abstentions, he did not vote 61, out of 176 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Velimir Simonovic once proposed to delete Articles 3, 4, 5, 6, 10, 11 and 24. The government, the Committee on Education and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment, with the Committee on Education finding that the adoption of amendments by the MPs Milan Radulovic and Bojana Aleksic was accepted and part of the amendment of MP Velimir Simonovic to Article 24, which is essentially the same as the amendment of those MPs. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here's a word from MP Velimir Simonovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21182	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask, if possible by the Rules of Procedure, to vote first on my amendment to Article 6 because then I would give up these other amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21183	It is not possible because you have submitted one amendment proposing to delete Articles 3, 4, 5, 6, 10, 11 and 24 and the Assembly cannot be declared to be part of your amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21184	Well, then I'd like to say a few words. I wouldn't repeat what's already been said, there was enough speech last time. I don't usually do quotes, but these days I've been reading a book that's in my hands, so I'd quote a few shorts from that book, which is exactly what we're discussing. In fact, it is about what our great statesman Nikola Pasic said, about 1878 and 1880. So this is how he says, "The modern state, in Pasic's opinion, "is not going to end the religion, because faith cannot be abolished or forced." His request is "to keep faith out of the state, not to interfere with state institutions and to have no state ruling religion". The reason for this is the intention to bring more harmony into the Serbian people, divided into more faith. Therefore, "by considering our people as being torn apart by faith, we ask that religion is all equal before the law." The state should "shut together various beliefs and therefore "faith must not be taught in school but in church". Here, you see how it's been happening with us for over 100 years. It's your country, Serbia. Since you know that Nikola Pasic was educated in Switzerland, he came from here with modern European ideas, and that's what he wanted to do here at the end of the 19th century. I have nothing more to add to what I was talking about last time, and since I know that my amendment, especially Article 6, will not go away, because there is a political decision here, (as was the one about the Law on University and the Law on Primary Schools), I would more like to appeal to you to at least accept the amendment that has been made by fellow citizens of the Civil Union and the Social Democratic Party, which is making this easier, so that the religion is at least academic, as it was this year in schools. Let's do it for high schools where sciences are still being studied on a slightly higher level, so let's say the fourth graders are already learning elements of quantum physics, elements of the theory of Revitality, have a bunch of scientific information, even from popular literature on original practice, about the spread of space, about genetics, about cloning, not only animals, but also about cloning human embryos, etc. At least we don't impose unnecessary things on them because they decide in high school on their own, not parents, that at least high school students remain completely free to choose whether or not anyone wants to listen to college classes without imposing it on them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21185	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? Yeah. Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21186	The MPs of the SRS are not in favour of the introduction of religion into schools, they are simply against it being mandatory and against the existence of a parallel object, so that a child will stand and resolve as at intersections - either learn the religion or some subject of humanistic content, and both will be required and both will be evaluated in some way, so that we cannot accept Mr Simonovic's amendment. But as some argument of ours for staying religious, I could show you this DOS declaration for Zajcar. Obviously, we need a religion in schools. DOS congratulates Zaječar Easter on Serbian citizens in words - Christ is born. You also published it in the paper as an ad. I think you need a religion in schools. I'm aware that a man who is 15, 16, 17, or 18, (this year you're introducing 18-year-olds to religion), can't make a believer. Either she's believing or she's not; it's a 18-year-old religious thing that can't make a man think that the church is aware of that. I'm aware of that and that the church is not equipped with high-quality lecturers, and the state has no lecturers. I am aware that a man will enter the classroom who will say that "the beating from heaven has come out", and I am aware that I have seen the resurrection liturgy on which your DOS ruler, when he spoke to the citizens after the service of God, told that God is guarding the royal house of Karadjordjevic and those who are now in power. I'm aware of how much you're using even faith to somehow strengthen your foundations, and the minister was saying, as a roller coaster, he's going to get a higher value complex, because radicals claim they were organized in schools. Minister, you're on such a descending path, and I don't want you to get better politically, as I wish you to get better. I think it's a Slovenian cast, it'll heal quickly, they have a better cast. But, Minister, you rule so badly, they're such bad bill proposals. This is the makeup that an older woman of my age would want to make a young girl. It's not worth it, Minister. It's not working.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21187	The word has a minister in the government, Mr. Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21188	You're not an older man, don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21189	Are any of the other participants in the debate answering for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 54, against 86, two were abstentions, 34 did not vote, out of 176 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Zivodarka Dacin, submitted to the 3rd Amendment. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The People's Parliament wants a word. The word has a folk emissary of the Life-giving Dacin.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21190	On behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 3 with a proposal to delete it as a whole. In addition to all of this, I would like to say that this introduction of religion into high school represents for me a political marketing, which is very inhumanely affecting the most subtle and most sensitive, intimate wire of every man. Why am I saying this? I would give a positive example here of a Catholic church that I know that in the last 40 years (and I know that it has traditionally lasted much more), there are organised religious schools for all students from first to eighth grade, with textbooks, and printed for each age, and with some kind of, I would say, student books or indices in which there is a record of presence, of assessment, and of the subject itself, of governance, of student interest, etc. So those who really tend that tradition much longer have only a program for the first eight grades of primary school. I think it's really too high, unnecessary to introduce religion to high school students. This is already about mature people, formed personalities that will identify themselves and be able to study religious teaching, but at our Orthodox church. We socialists also advocated when there was a draft law on elementary school and today when it comes to high school that we need to organise religious education at our church and that, of course, the state, as much as possible, helps. You know, we're coming into some paradoxical situation that in high schools in big cities, I believe it's a problem in Belgrade, too, we don't have personnel, professors, e.g. Mathematics, not to mention foreign languages and some other professional subjects. The question arises, "Who will be of believers not only in primary school, but also in high school?" Another argument in favour of this amendment to delete - if we have introduced a religion in elementary school, okay, that is one compulsory kind of schooling, but really high school is not required under the law; therefore, you can go to high school, and you also don't have to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21191	Anyone else want a word? If not, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 47, against 76, abstention, he did not vote 51, out of 175 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Branko Pavlovic. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The amendmentr wants a word. The word is made by MP Branko Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21192	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we will not, during this debate in particular, explain all the amendments to the Social Democratic Party, for the simple reason that it is indeed a conceptual proposal to amend and supplement the law on high school as well as on elementary school. What was outvoted or where we didn't make it to elementary school, we certainly won't go to high school either. Now I'm just going to say what four points we wanted to change both in primary and secondary schools, which are not accepted. It's one thing that's already mentioned, therefore, that religion, if it's already being introduced, which we think is wrong, even if it's academic, so that some student doesn't have to have an object because others want to have a vernacular. It's not accepted. The second part we insisted on was not to distinguish between religious communities and traditional churches. Here we heard an opinion - our church. We are the People's Messengers. All the churches of Serbian citizens are our churches and should support them all to have the possibility of religious teaching in their facilities and their premises. So it's also not accepted. The other two points (not points, but groups of amendments) were directed at one attempt to dissipate the students with some kind of cutback, related to working Saturdays, and to leave it out. The third part was about trying to stimulate training and training. It is clear that everything will be revoted, as was the case with the elementary school law. That's why we won't report anymore and we'll let you vote on our further proposals. As for this amendment to Article 3, I am withdrawing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21193	I find that the applicant for the amendment has withdrawn the proposed amendment, which ceases to be the subject of discussion in particular. Members of the 3rd amendment were submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic. The government and the Education Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21194	Since it is normal and reasonable for most of us to accept this amendment, because in the same text it is accepted in the elementary school law, I would just like to draw attention to two things. One warning from the minister that it can almost be understood in public, that radicals will question time-limits for enrolment in high school by their participation in this bill. I am informing Mr. Minister of Education and Sports (now it is only education, and for sport he will have to find a deputy) that we did not work on April 25th and 7th, although we should have worked, although the whole of Serbia was working then and that we could also adopt this bill. Yesterday we were able to complete this bill and all discussions of the MPs of the SRS. It's the DOS thing why we didn't work the last day before the Easter holidays and why we didn't work the first day after the Easter holidays. Now that we've started so slow, we, the opposition MPs, would do what we have to do, if we went out and left you to count, and now there would be no quorum. It's the DOS thing to think a little bit about why our sessions are taking longer and longer. As for the amendment itself, I won't say anything about wishes. I just want to draw attention to the legislator that my amendment was correct, that the church is evangelical, not evangelical, because it's not Catholic, it's Catholic. I would ask that, if you accept the amendment, it will be in the text that I have submitted, not in the text that the Government then texted, giving an opinion on the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21195	Anybody else answer for a word? The word has a minister in the government, Mr. Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21196	The government accepts an amendment submitted by the Serbian Radical Party. As for this language correction, whether it's evangelical, not evangelical, we leave it to the legal-technical editorial. I think it's been taken over by the regulation. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21197	A representative of the Government accepted on behalf of the Government, but the Education Committee did not accept, and the National Assembly must declare its acceptance of this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 3 to the vote. For 130, the four, the abstentioned, were not voted 42, out of 176 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment most of the votes. Members of the 4th amendment were submitted by MP Djura Lazic. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21198	On behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 4 of the proposed law, and this amendment suggests that an entire member be deleted for the simple reason that the definition of the SPS is that religious teaching should be carried out in religious objects. I've talked about this a little bit more about the amendment to the basic school bill, so I wouldn't say a few things again. However, only two reasons I would like to state why religious teaching should be done and performed in religious facilities - for practical reasons and rational ones. First, for example, in one school classes are performed in Serbian, and students are members of several religious communities. How, in that case, can you organize a religious education at school? Secondly, it would be better and more effective because of the ambience and the influence and environment of a religious object, in God's temples, to keep religious teaching in these facilities, rather than at school. That's my opinion, because I've worked for a long time in education and I know that both circumstances, environment, ambience and how they influence the attention and interest of students. That's what it's all about. I'd like to take the opportunity, since Mr. Minister is here, to inform and make one remark from the Svilinc citizen, a Russian-language professor of the Agricultural-Veterinary School in Svilinc, who doesn't have a full fund of lessons; she's asked at that school to refund that number of lessons through work in the school library. As far as I'm aware, from practice, philosophers usually got some nudge for an incomplete number of hours working in the library. However, this colleague, a Russian language teacher, did not come across the understanding of the director who entrusted the job to his wife, otherwise to the professor of biology, although she had a full number of lessons. So indeed, this educational worker, a Russian language professor, remained with unfulfilled rights; she complained several times with Assistant Minister of Central Education Refik Saqimovic, who gave several different interpretations on several occasions, and was in no way able to exercise some rights. This is obviously about the presence of nepotism, so he would ask the minister to do something to correct this injustice against this lady. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21199	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 49, against 79, the abstentions were not voted 45, out of 173 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The proposal to add a new Article 4a after Article 4. National MP Branko Pavlovic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 4a be added after article 4. The government and the Education Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Does any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 31, against 76, the abstentions, did not vote 65, out of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Maravić. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? The word is from the People's MP Ljubisa Maravić.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21200	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, on the basis of Articles 142 and 143. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on High Schools, in front of the SPS, have submitted an amendment to delete Article 6, because I believe that the introduction of religious teaching and other subjects of ethical-humanist content, as academic subjects, has no constitutional framework and basis. Also, international declarations to which the legislator is called do not talk about forced education and education, but say that every man has the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion, independently and in the community with others. The legislator has exceeded the rights and freedoms of a man, as he introduces the obligation to attend one of the cases offered, although a large number of high school students have not declared themselves to one of these two subjects. We Socialists advocate freedom of thought and religion in church facilities, and the state should materially help to enable those who wish to organise religious teaching in church facilities for traditional religions.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21201	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21202	The honourable presidency, fellow MPs, Mr. Minister, the SPS parliamentary group has submitted an amendment to Article 6 through counterpart Ljubisa Maravic to delete this member of the law. We have several, in my opinion, very convincing reasons. It is not clear from this article of the bill which is the subject of ethical-humanist content. Secondly, what is important to us, it is a fact of what it is like to introduce these electoral subjects for students. The question is what will be the teaching content in these subjects and what benefits they will have for the students. In fact, the law stipulates that a high school student commits to select one of these two electoral items in the first and every subsequent class. A student can change a subject every year. Now a logical question is being asked - what can it mean for him in this educational process if he changes the subject every year next year? Secondly, it is also predicted that the electoral teaching of one or another subject is performed regardless of the number of students who apply. So, regardless of the number of students, classes have to be performed. When it comes to faith, I have to say our principled position, that we Socialists are not against religion, but since the church is separate from the state and religion should be out of school. Col. Maravić also mentioned the constitutional framework, i.e. the constitutional problem. I must remind myself that in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in Article 41, it is very clear that religious communities are separated from the state and free to perform religious affairs and religious rituals, that the religious community can establish religious schools and charities, that the state can materially help religious communities. This basically means that the state, if it will, can give the church the money needed for educational work and find an appropriate way to do so. So, this way, through the law, the church is being dragged into the country by a small door, because the fact is that all religious communities, regardless of the number of students, are being introduced into schools. In our opinion, there is another very important reason why this amendment should be adopted, i.e. to delete this member of the bill. This is the fact that additional large financial resources are needed to carry out religious teaching and subjects of ethical-humanist content. Speaking of the law in principle, we also mentioned what lies in the reasoning of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and these are large funds for academic subjects, and it can be understood how much money will be needed for these items, especially in those national and religious mixed environments where much more teachers for religious teaching will be paid. In any case, all these reasons point to the need to accept the amendment of counterpart Ljubisa Maravić and we suggest that this member of the law be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21203	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 36, against 79, the abstentions were not voted 57, out of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Vukic. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has the mandated representative of the SRS parliamentary group Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21204	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, article 6, is being intervened in article 27 of the existing, still valid, High School Law. With this amendment, we represent the position of the SRS that religious continuation should not put an alternative through any other subject and thus force the students to define whether they will learn religious teaching or any other subject that is here unhappily named - subject of ethical-humanistic content; given that any subject that is being studied at school should have ethical-humanistic content, and we know that we have unfortunately received this one item now in this school year that is currently going on, which is called civic education. Our proposal is for this position 2. reads: "The electoral course is a religious course that is carried out in accordance with the curriculum and programme for the appropriate school, regardless of the number of students. "So, to delete this alternative that the Government proposes and to change attitude four by saying, "The student declares himself in enrolment in the first and next class of school on whether or not he will attend the course from the electoral course that becomes mandatory for the student at that school." To the truth, although the Serbian Radical Party indeed advocates the introduction of religious teaching in both primary and secondary education, I believe that the government has somehow brought the church into a very unpleasant position. Because I just can't imagine how programs for working in this class are going to be brought in at all levels if we imagine the situation being in one class, and it's probably going to be, like, fifth grade primary school, one kid getting lucky with a class class for the first time, and someone's been studying it for five years. Or, now in high school, in which year it will be even more pronounced, for the first time in the second grade of high school, and a child is constantly learning this from the first grade of elementary school. Who is it that can bring an adequate program to teach children at the same age practically one and the same subject at different levels? I think this is a mockery of the church and it was supposed to go gradually, because we're going to meet in a paradoxical situation, that the simple program won't be able to be adequately brought in, that all of this would look funny, and we'd like it to be very serious and have a positive impact on our children.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21205	Do any of the other authorized participants want a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 21, against 76, the abstentions were not voted 72, out of 169 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Branko Pavlovic. The government and the Education Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Do any of the authorized participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I am putting the amendment to the vote. For seven, against 81, the abstentions were not voted 82, out of 170 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Radulovic and Bojana Aleksic. The government and the Education Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Do the applicants want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an amendment by Milan Radulović.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21206	The MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia have submitted an amendment to Article 6, which is otherwise the best member in this whole law and the most serious innovation of the High School Law. Article 6 provides for the introduction of electoral items, which is very good. There was no election class law in the current law on high school. I suppose there will be more election cases in the further reform of the school system. This member is also good because election items have been well found, which is practically met with the basic right of students, which is the right to education by introducing electoral subjects - religious classes and other subjects. In high school, without knowing the history of religion, without knowledge of religious culture, of religious communities, it is not possible to fully understand ethics, philosophy and psychology, but above all, more than anything else, it is not possible to understand artistic discipline. But still, we have put the amendment to this article, although I repeat it - we are extremely respectful and we believe that this is the best that has been proposed by these amendments. We have proposed our amendment that the election classes in high school are not selected every school year, but that the student chooses an election course at the beginning of high school and that he is trained until the end of his education. The government, in response to our amendment, has said that the electoral object is highly educational and therefore should be left with greater freedom of choice. In elementary school, it may be a subject of educational character, in the first place. But in high school, it's not. In high school, it is at least equal to the subject of both educational and educational character. In the framework of religious teaching, high school students will learn the history of religious ideas, learn the spiritual and material culture of religious communities, traditional religious communities in Serbia, learn the ethics of religious communities, as well as the parallel religion and the history of each religion individually. This already represents one round system, which must be gradually conquered; the programme must be formulated by relying on one area to another. If such a solution remains as was proposed by the ministry, I think it would be more of a concession to those who are completely against religiousism than to meet some pedagogical criteria. People who are anti-religious realize that, on the pedagogical side, it is much more justifiable that in high school students -- who are already at a higher level of knowledge -- get, as much -- a circled knowledge and a system of knowledge from these subjects. I think the government would do well to accept this, as well as the MPs, because the solution to that extent is logical that only sophisms can be challenged.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21207	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? Yeah. ) The word is made by Minister Mr. Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21208	The government remains with its position to be elected for a year. The dilemma is what the nature of an object called religious science, whether it goes more on the educational or educational side, or whether it is a mixture of those two contents. There have also been conversations with religious communities, and beyond, that this shift we introduce should be called "The Science of Faith" or "The History of Religion". So we would either paint the object by name or by name, or we would draw closer to one or the other option. Such proposals have been rejected in advance. It's the name of a vernacular. That's why I'm thinking, and I'm not going to say that he has an overly educational character. But in any case, the educational character in high school is sufficiently represented. That's why I would like to point out that the government, from that point of view, remains at the choice every year. Equipped with philosophy or something like that, I don't think we have enough internal powers right now to raise him to that level. I'm sorry, I won't insult anyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21209	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 25, against 69, the abstentions were not voted 72, out of 166 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dragan Pantelic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 6a be added after article 6. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 28, against 74, the abstentions were not voted 64, out of 166 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. He has the word MP Zarko Obradovic, president of the SPS parliamentary group (infringing the Rules of Procedure).
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21210	Fellow Members of the People's Parliament, advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 95. - The president of the National Assembly, or one who holds the presidency, is required to interrupt the session of the National Assembly when there is no quorum. We already have two votes and the number of MPs in the room is about 100 (not counting), I would ask that the Assembly determines. The fact is that we do not have a quorum, that the chairman tolerates it, that two amendments have been voted on, or two amendments have been voted on. According to the number of MPs in the O.R., they are missing. I'd like to ask the Assembly to keep that in mind. I am saying this for the reason why we are constantly asking the question of quorum and the responsibility of the MPs. The congregation's been working all day. I ask you to keep that in mind, since the SPS parliamentary group is also there and participates in the quorum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21211	The call for an infringement of Article 95 does not stand, since the chairman of the National Assembly is following an electronically established quorum, and the MP has the right to vote for, to vote against, to be abstention or not to vote. By calling on Article 95, I find that there are no injuries to the Rules of Procedure, because twice as I chaired the National Assembly, I interrupted the session at the same time as I found that there was no quorum on the electronic voting system. As long as I see more than 126 registered cards on the electronic system, I think it's fine. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Miomir Ilic. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There is a word from the People's Messenger Miomir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21212	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 7. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the High School Act amending Article 30 of the existing Law. I think Article 7 should be deleted, according to the government's explanation. In order to clarify the matter, it is about raising a school fund in high schools during the week, from 30 to 31 in high school, at a professional school and art school from 32 to 33 hours, and at a ballet school from 40 to 41 hours. The government has rejected my amendment for reasons specified in the explanation, which it says - amendments are not accepted for the reason that education reform will relieve students by reducing the number of mandatory cases and discharging programmes from unnecessary content. I don't think this is in collegiate, but the argument is contrary to what is proposed, or by reason of the government, it needs to be reduced, not increased. Also, the new view of this same argument of not accepting my amendment refers to the fact that in the examples of secondary education in the countries of the European Community (some countries are mentioned) the weekly fund is much higher than in us, it is more than in the number of hours, and somewhere in the length of time. That's a bad example. I must tell you that both the SPS and the citizens of Serbia believe that we have had good education, that we have had good youth, educated youth, that we have had good educational workers, that they have educated our children and our youth, that there are examples of this over the past 50 years (which you mention so much, that it is no good), because the personnel who have educated our economy and our economic facilities built our infrastructure. No one came from the side to do it, but our students were educated, our youth. They went abroad, but they went abroad, so that's where they share their brains and lessons. We don't need the salt of the mind, not Finland, not the Netherlands, not France. Pelcer's education, education and scientific work should be taken from us, not from them. For this reason, I believe that, according to the reasons given, and contradictoryly, the SPS amendment should be adopted and Article 7. The bill should be abolished. Before the amendment is passed, under the Rules of Procedure, I ask the chairman to establish the quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21213	On the basis of Article 84(2), it is my obligation to instruct the Members of the People, who do not put forth the effort and the time to propose in an appropriate manner any proposal to the National Assembly, according to the Rules of Procedure, and I find that the MP Miomir Ilic did not do so as the Rules of Procedure requires, so I ask you to make an effort to propose second time in your Rules of Procedure what is your undisputable right as a People's MP. Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 32, against 88, two abstentions, 35 of the 157 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Injury of the Rules of Procedure or a proposal by the Rules of Procedure? The breach of the Rules of Procedure, please, has a word from MP Zarko Obradovic, president of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21214	Madam Chairman, you can ignore cameras and numbers, but the fact is there's no quorum in the O.R., or at least we didn't have it at three votes back, so I'm calling on Article 82. Rules on the work of the National Assembly, paragraphs 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5, doubting the vote, Articles 117 and 118 concerning the cards and obligations of the MPs to take those cards out of the hall. I ask the Assembly to establish the quorum and to see who is here and who is not, so that we can work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21215	Article 82 paragraph 5 - if the MP raises doubts about the existence of a quorum, the president of the National Assembly shall put into account the computer copy of the present Members of Parliament. To be able to obtain a copy, I ask the MPs to determine the quorum, or you want the first explanation by Articles 117 and 118. Since MPs are unable to agree whether or not they will, the chairman of the National Assembly leaves the MPs at will to assess the violation of Articles 117 and 118. [[GROANING]] I ask the MPs to establish a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. (Employees enter the O.R., waiting to determine the quorum. ) I find that we have a quorum and that we can continue to work with discussion in particular. To Article 7. The amendment was submitted by MP Branko Pavlovic. The government and the Education Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 9, against 99, there are no abstentions, he did not vote 31, out of 139 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Branko Pavlovic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 7a be added after article 7. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 31, against 93, the abstentions were not voted 18, out of 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 9. The amendment was submitted by MP Branko Pavlovic. The government and the Education Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 12, against 93, the abstentions were not voted 35, out of 140 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 9. The amendment was submitted by MP Predrag Canovic. The government and the Education Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here's a word from MP Predrag Canovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21216	The honourable MPs in Article 42 of the current Law on High School Position 9 envisioned the possibility that a candidate who, as a student of the eighth grade of elementary school in a republican competition, or in federal or international competitions, would be released from one of the first three individual awards of a qualification exam from the mentioned cases. However, in the existing bill, that position was deleted. It is not clear to us why this position has been deleted and we believe that students who are able to achieve excellent success are confirming the winning prizes in certain cases should be stimulated and freed from taking qualification exams from these cases, because, in our opinion, it is sufficient evidence of their ability to follow the course of further education. Therefore, we believe that this position under the previous law, the applicable law, should be restored to the existing draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21217	Does anyone else want a word? Here's a word from MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21218	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is incomprehensible that the Minister of Education, who has already given up his powers in several laws and almost as a hot chestnut rejects all those members of the law by which he has decided, suddenly wants amendments and additions to the Law on High School to bring him closer to establishing conditions for the evaluation of the participation of eighth grade students in competitions and the kind of competition whose seats are being valued. The law has been clear so far. There were competitions in the republican new, which was organised by the Ministry of Education, or at the federal level and international competitions, and everything was clear. What does this mean now? Those who are parents of children who are supposed to enroll in high school will not know at all until the day when the competition is announced, and perhaps even then, the question is when will the minister determine what competitions are considered for evaluation, or whether these are small doors to which we will be drawn various competitions that will not be organised by this country at all, various associations. You love these NGOs, you love foreign organizations to help our children in education. The minister takes on a great responsibility, which he doesn't need at all. The current legal solution provided for everything and did not depend on the minister. Now, all of a sudden, the minister wants that information. Since it belongs to a political party I don't trust, whose policy I don't agree with at all, as he doesn't agree with the party I belong to at all, then I don't believe his criteria will be as Serbian citizens would like. These are the criteria of one political party, because this government is a coalition, so broadly coalition that one minister goes against his government's programme and you all shut up because Serbia suffers from the terror of small political states, the state terror of small political parties that blackmail most of the DOS and therefore carry out whatever they want. And the most state-of-the-art moves that the government is making in public by small political parties. That's why I'm afraid the minister, who's from a small political party, the minister who won't be allowed to go with his party to the elections on his own, let's trust the hands to decide which competitions will decide which child can, without the admission exam, which success should have in the competition to enroll and which child is not. Why are you running away from the legal solutions that regulated everything? Why do you enter fairies where nothing is regulated? When we proposed to Mr. Minister there to decide on many issues, he said he did not want to take any risks, no responsibility, and that he did not want to be a man who had too many powers. Now, all of a sudden, he wants and he wants, and he seems to need this especially because it's about which children will move on in their lives with diplomats whose verification was credited to the minister of education.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21219	Do any of the other participants want a word? Yeah. ) The word is attended by MP Vladimir Garcevic, an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21220	The respected presidency, respected fellow Members of Parliament, respected ministers, seems to me that every year we will be making experiments, and what kind of experiments they will be, doesn't matter; it is important, the minister will change the situation to the situation in the government or there will be a new minister and new rules. I don't think that education should be based on individuals or groups, but it must have a stable relationship, which means that admission exams must be regulated by law. So when a student enrolls in the first grade of elementary school, he must have a clear idea of what's going on with him by the end of primary school. A high school student must know exactly what the criteria for enrollment are. I don't know, I didn't see it, it's May 1st, whether these criteria and how they enroll in the first grade were published, but we didn't get it as teachers at school, and maybe it was posted somewhere. The question arises when to get to know each other, when the school year is over, eighth grade students end quickly, and the criteria are unknown. It's gonna be combined with this or that. By enrolling a student, he must know what awaits him during his next education. Legal frameworks, i.e. the law, need to regulate what it is. On the other hand, so far it has been clearly regulated what can be recognised in the registration contests. We want to seem to change each year according to someone's will; this year we're going to change, you know, it's not this, and in May we're going to add something else. I don't think that kind of instability in education is necessary. The moment the legal regulations change, he says, there will be a change of laws: you know what, we've been changing 13 members of the law for a year and a half so we're not able to change it, and the question is, how many years will it take for a new law. I hope this government doesn't do it. I hope we do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21221	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 35, against 95, the abstentions were not voted 16 out of 146 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Hranislav Peric. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21222	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my amendment suggested that article 10 be deleted for the following reasons. The view of the SPS is that religious science is not introduced to schools, but that religious science is performed in church rooms because religiousism is the place there. In elementary schools it is not possible to perform this because in rural areas and there are no conditions for performing religious teaching in church rooms, but secondary schools are situated in municipal centres or cities and there are conditions for performing religious studies in church rooms. Since this article has regulated that the evaluations in the election case will be descriptive and will not affect student success, the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Faith should not be mixed. If we get the religious girl into school, then what will the Ministry of Faith do? As you suggested, you should connect the Ministry of Education with the Ministry of Faith to be one ministry. If we want to do business professionally, then we should leave it to the Ministry of Faith to deal with religion without interference from the Ministry of Education.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21223	Anybody else answer for a word? Yeah. ) The speech has the president of the SPS parliamentary group, MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21224	The Honorable Presidency, fellow MPs, Mr Minister, the SPS does not conceptually accept these provisions of the law, i.e. the proposal of members and therefore proposes to be deleted. In these three positions of this member of the law, in particular, attitude 3 shows, let me say, all the absurdity of the members, i.e. the views before that. Namely, one question is asked. These electoral items, with the very choice of students, become mandatory items. The student is obliged to attend these cases both first and second, and third and fourth years. The criteria, i.e. the way in which the assessment can be established, can be classically - not pointed out, meets, etc., but this third position of the member of the law says that the evaluations in the electoral case do not affect the overall success of the students. So, the student will only be required to be present in class, and he doesn't necessarily have to participate in the process of teaching, or working on the election subject. The question arises, why the criterion, why the value of student success when it essentially means nothing to him. The only limiting moment, what prevents a student, to say, or restricts him, is the obligation to be there probably because of those negative lessons. The SPS parliamentary group is for the reasons set out by a fellow MP, and this is what I have tried to explain, against this member and has proposed to delete him.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21225	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a minister in the government, Mr. Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21226	I don't understand whether the SPS parliamentary group understands the consequences of their words. I really don't get it; those who argue that religious science doesn't get into schools, now suddenly they're pushing for a regular evaluation regime. There's something contradictory about it. My lords, you're either for one or for the other, I think we need to define ourselves. Secondly, there are various forms of participation of students in the regular course and it does not matter whether they enter the average or not. Very often, the most interesting are classes that don't even have to go on average, where they get a general education.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21227	Replica, president of the parliamentary group, Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21228	Mr Minister, obviously we did not understand each other; I have expressed the position of the SPS parliamentary group, of course other fellow Members, and when it comes to this law in principle and in particular. Conceptually, we are against the introduction of these electoral subjects -- and religious teaching and this other subject of ethical-humanist content -- and we have presented a number of reasons why it should not be so. And in relation to this particular proposal, we say that there shouldn't be, that this member should be deleted and we've instructed the reasons for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21229	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 29, against 98, the abstentions were not voted 24 out of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Goran Cvetanovic submitted to the 10th amendment. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Goran Cvetanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21230	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS has tabled an amendment to Article 10(2). The bill reads: "The success of the students in the election cases is assessed in a descriptive manner, based on the criteria established by the minister of education. "The amendment of the SRS in Article 10(2): "chosen" is replaced by the word "election". So it's not about the larger number, it's only about one -- an election item. The SRS considers the existence of an alternative object, i.e. the subject matter of ethical-humanist content unnecessary. Ethics-humanist content must exist in all subjects that are required to be studied at all levels of education. Justifiedly, the SRS suspects that through an alternative subject, which is popularly referred to as a civil challenge, the indoctrination of school children will be done to the values of our foreign society, our morals and ethics. We suspect that this subject will be a polygon for defiling various NGOs, semi-governmental and governmental organisations, many religious sects and minor political parties, etc. In Serbia, above all, a large number of sects appear, and some are really aggressive in imposing their teachings. That is the example we have with Jehovah’s Witnesses and their magazine The Watchtower. Such sects are a danger to psychophysical health, which can even endanger people's lives. That's why the SRS's position is there's no alternative to religious continuation.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21231	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I am putting the amendment to the vote and asking the MPs to declare themselves by voting. For 18, against 97, the two abstentions did not vote 34, a total of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic, writing as an authorised representative of the amendment's applicants, withdrew an amendment that was proposed to add a new Article 10a after Article 10. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Joca Arsic. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Here's a word from MP Joca Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21232	Dear People's MPs, I have submitted an amendment to Article 11 of the proposed law, and on behalf of the SPS, I have proposed that this member be deleted. I will remind only of the text of the member who I have proposed to delete - in article 70 after item 11. The position 12 to 14. reads: "The type of professional preparation of teachers of religious teaching determines the minister of education on a joint proposal from the Ministry of Faith and Traditional Churches and Religious Communities. The list of religious teachers is determined by the minister of education at the proposal of traditional churches and religious communities. The teachers of religious teaching point to the school of traditional churches and religious communities from established lists for each school year. "The reason for erasing this article is that it is related to the previous amendments that have provided for the erasure of individual members. And by the fact that these amendments have not passed, this article remains practically disabled in one part, because it must be determined in a certain way to determine this matter, i.e. to determine how to carry out the course. I went out to explain the reasons that motivated us, and they were already listed by the head of the parliamentary group, Zarko Obradovic, and the MPs who predicted the erasure of the previous members. Here I would like to warn you of one more thing that needs to be taken into account in this Article 11. Namely, by adopting amendments to the 3rd MP Tomislav Nikolic to define religious communities, where exactly what religious communities can organise teaching are defined, this gap remains now in all three positions of Article 11, which refers to traditional churches and religious communities. In this case, the text should be brought into line with the amendment submitted by Tomislav Nikolic to Article 3, so that they are precisely defined by the religious communities and this Article 11. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21233	The word came from Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21234	As regards a member who defines the type of professional preparation of teachers of religious teaching, since that type of professional training will be established by the minister on a joint proposal from the Ministry of Faith and Traditional Churches, I am interested in the deadlines for determining the type of professional training of teachers who will carry out religious training, or where the punishment for the minister is, unless within that time, determined the type of professional training required for someone to carry out religious teaching. Why that question? Everything else is defined. You have also defined for a school associate to have a minimum middle professional training, for an educator to have to have a college, so the term teacher of religious teaching appears, and for me it's a teacher. He works with the kids. It cannot wait for the minister to wait for a proposal that must be agreed first by the churches, and then agree with the Ministry of Faith and that such a harmonised proposal by the minister alone approves. It says here, it determines. The minister doesn't determine anything. He only signs the proposal. We've got churches that probably aren't trained in human beings to teach religious classes. Whether it'll be in the diapazon, ranging from high school to college. Will, for example, teach children who belong to the Islamic religious community someone who has only a medre. Will the children belonging to the Serbian Orthodox Church for the lecturer be the Faculty of Education? If we set that condition or some other community college, we won't have enough teachers. If we break the criteria of conditions for a teacher, we'll ruin the quality of teaching. The minister who made the commitment to determine that, and I say he won't determine, because what he's going to do is make it look like the minister isn't now accepting the agreed proposal first of all, and then he's dying with the Ministry of Faith. The minister is waiting for a tough job, and schools are preparing to enroll new students. Don't make it look like the school knows how many students she's going to enroll in, and she doesn't know what education profile she's going to be as a religious teacher. The truth is that the minister must also agree to a list of religious teachers with all churches, which will apply to that school year. It's a huge job. It can happen that the quality of teaching, depending on which church the one who performs the teaching, varies dramatically, thus falling in certain churches, that children will be very confused, whether they could still get that education in the house. (President: three minutes 30 seconds. I'm done. I don't suppose Veronica's gonna be taught by kids who haven't gotten that education in the house since the first days of their lives. I could bet with the bill promoter that no child from the atheist's house will start studying religion at 7 or 15 years old. That's why the minister and his related political parties are propagating some education, some other educational subjects, and they're able to take pictures on TV.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21235	Anyone else want a word? The word has a minister in the government, Mr. Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21236	Telegraph answers to questions asked. The state authority is required to prescribe a type of preparation. There was never a sanction, not in any previous text, so there's no reason now; in time, it means by the autumn, or by the beginning of the school year. Stepen is prescribed by law, we all know that, and that's high education. As for the assessment of whether or not someone from the atheist's house is going to go to religious school, I can't respond to that in advance. I think it's going to happen in my house, but I don't know it now either.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21237	Anyone else want a word? The word has been passed by MP Bojana Alexic, an authorised representative of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21238	The minister forgot to say that this article no longer reads this way; that is, the Committee on Education and Government, at the session of the committee, accepted the DSS amendment as a member of the 12th law. I'm going to read it, just so you know exactly what that member of the law is right now. Article 73 paragraph 2 is amended and reads: "The provision of Article 1 does not apply to a teacher of religious teaching who concludes a 12 month working contract with the school for each new school year". Articles 11 and 12 are directly bound, because Article 12 just says "wipes".
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21239	Anybody else answer for a word? I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 41, against 85, a abstentioned one, did not vote 26, out of 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Pavlovic. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 14, against 100, there are no abstentions, there is no vote 41, out of 155 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21240	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the SRS has submitted an amendment in accordance with its programme definition. The amendment to Article 12 concerns, in particular, the appointment of a teacher. According to the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, one part of the old law of Article 73 is deleted, which is Article 2. However, the position of the SRS is that attitude 1 is not sufficiently processed. Item 1: "The teacher, i.e. the co-worker, chooses on the basis of the competition of the school's director according to the prepared opinion of the school board". The SRS requested that the opinion of the school board be disregarded when the teachers were appointed. First, the bill itself does not say enough what will happen if the director does not act in the opinion of the school board. Then who's older, is the school director or the school board? Furthermore, illogicalities continue because in this bill, candidates who are not satisfied with the director's decision are denied the right to appeal. The SRS has submitted in this amendment that such a decision by a candidate director who is not satisfied with the decision can appeal to the school director. The attitude is clear here. So, the school director should appoint the government of the Republic of Serbia, not the school board, the school where he is the founder of the government. The question arises how it will work in both primary schools and secondary schools where the founders are private persons, meaning entrepreneurs. The school board can only exist at that time in case that school is some sort of stockholder society, so proportionally, as much as anyone who participates in such a school's capital, has the right to vote on a school board, but that's only where there are more owners. Where the owner of the state, or Serbia, is, these are the responsibilities of the education ministry alone. Another illogicality in this law is being put in place, which is that the school director can remove the teacher from the classroom until the disciplinary procedure is over. What if that doesn't agree with the school board whose opinion this teacher is put in place? From all this, I believe that the amendment of the SRS should be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21241	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 39, against 100, a abstentioned one, was not voted 14 out of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Radulovic and Bojana Aleksic. The government and the Education Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. It is subject to Article 12 of the amendment, pursuant to Article 145. Rules of Procedure, submitted by the Education Committee. At the meeting of the Committee on Education, the Proposer's representative agreed to this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, with the legal technical regulation it has proposed, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. On Article 12 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Zeljjo Huric. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? The applicant for the amendment withdraws the amendment, which stops being the subject of a particular search. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Drgan Markovic, Milos Lukic, Petar Petrovic and Adam Urosevic. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? The word has a National MP, Petar Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21242	The Honored Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Soviet Parliament group has tabled an amendment that the government rejected with the following explanation: "Amendment should not be accepted in the proposed text, with its essence covered by Amendment 1. The governments of the Republic of Serbia." Our amendment reads as follows: "Extremely from the position of the first member, due to the urgency of teaching and replacing the temporarily absent teacher, the working relationship for a certain time can be established without competition, until the election process is completed after the competition. If the competition is not registered by candidates who meet the requirements of a school teacher, a working relationship with a certain time can also be established with a person who does not meet all the prescribed conditions, the longest by the end of the school year. The present position 2 is deleted. "I don't want to take the time to read the explanation for the proposed amendment. I would just ask the government, or the Ministry: if the draft law comes out of the ministry and moves towards the government, the government sets out a proposal to go to the Assembly, why does the Government now re-apply with its amendments? If she already wanted to correct the draft, she could correct it through the bill. Why should we MPs waste time studying these texts and making amendments when they have accepted, with a slight change? It is not said that amendments to the MPs, specifically the Serb Unity Party parliamentary groups, have been accepted, but are allegedly amendments to the government. I don't understand the government and the Ministry's procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21243	The word has a minister in the government, Mr. Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21244	A brief answer to the question: Meanwhile, the Labour Act was passed and the government had to react. That's the reason. We didn't want to steal anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21245	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 39, against 100, with one abstention, he did not vote 21, out of a total of 161 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Proposal to add a new Article 12a after Article 12a. National MP Zeljo Huric submitted an amendment, with an amendment, proposing that a new Article 12a be added after article 12. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The amendmentr wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21246	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, this amendment of mine is trying to make a small intervention in the field of employment in education, and that is when it comes to the admission of trainees. I suggest adding a new position in article 75 of the old law, which will read: "The criteria for selecting trainees are success in studies and time of study." The government's interventions in the previous Article 73 have been proposed to delete the second position, which reads: "The candidate dissatisfied with the Director's decision has the right to object to the Ministry of Education within 15 days of the date of delivery of the first-degree decision". It implies that, not to say, it is conditional upon the acceptance of this amendment of mine. I think that every single element of the amendment is; we're going to provide them with a better fit in education. In addition, students themselves, so those who claim to work in education, will try to achieve better success during the study, on the one hand; on the other hand, to complete the studies as soon as possible. In my conversation with almost all the heads and authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, I received support. I hope Mr. Minister will do the same, and this amendment will be accepted. I'm really insisting, and I'm asking for it to be done. We should influence the fact that our better quality people are employed in education. We have such situations that many ten years after employment are unable to pass a professional exam. On the other hand, at the time of reception, this discretionary right of the director led to absurd situations that those who had already finished were even younger and half-years out of work, and that people who were closer to the director had certainly not earned it. I thank you, and I think Mr. Secretary will accept this amendment after all.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21247	National MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group, spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21248	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this amendment does not exist. It does not mean that it is based on the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The government sent us a bill on amendments to the Law on High School. On that proposal, MPs submit amendments. What are we delivering the amendment to? On that proposal from the government. What Huric proposed, whether it was right or wrong, was not treated by the government at all with her bill of law. Then what are you giving the amendment to? Ambassador Huric could only submit a proposal for amendments to the Law on High School, to which he would amend Article 75. But this is not an amendment to the bill, because the bill doesn't deal with this member of the law at all. You are delivering an amendment to Article 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, which some members of the existing law have been amended. The secretary of the National Assembly should learn what the bill is, what the amendment is, and not just watch when MPs of the Serbian Radical Party deliver amendments to each comma and point. This is a big proposal. We don't want to enroll our children in high school because we're discussing something that we can't discuss if we want to respect the law and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21249	Since the MP made remarks concerning the very procedure in the Assembly, it is my duty to say that he is essentially right. The problem with the Rules of Procedure is that neither the service nor the secretary, nor anyone else within the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, can deny the right of the MP to submit the amendment except in cases clearly defined by the Rules of Procedure. In this case, it's an interpretation. Otherwise, in Article 75 of the Law, there is really no proposal to amend and supplement, and by that logic none of the MPs should put amendments to amendments and amendments that do not exist. National MP Zeljo Huric asked for a replica to be presented by MP Tomislav Nikolic, and the basis for the replica is probably a misreading.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21250	I really can't agree with this interpretation by the chairman. I think as MPs, we have the right to intervene on the law, because it is about changes and additions. So, not only on the proposal for changes and additions. This isn't the first case. We've had a lot of cases like this, and I've never noticed anyone intervened before. It probably didn't bother me that it came from my side. I won't even think about it. Anyway, I think I had the right to endure this kind of amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21251	National MP Tomislav Nikolic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21252	I would ask Mrs. Comic to follow the session, so there will be no debate between the MPs. Here is a harsh insinuation, the truth in a mild tone, as some MPs can howl. I do not hide my truths. I bring them forth as the people speak them. It has nothing to do with you, Mr. Huric, with my relationship to you. You're my brother to me. You laugh, which you would never tell him is your brother, and I tell him openly in front of all the citizens of Serbia - the brother, who was faithful, is only to be an honest and honest man. It doesn't matter, I objected when the DSS changed the Rules of Procedure and amended a member of the Rules of Procedure, which was not at all the subject of amendments and additions. I just don't think anything bad about anyone in this National Assembly. I'm sorry you won, I'm so sorry you won, not for me personally, because of the citizens of Serbia. You'll win a little morgen next time. What you did once, that's you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21253	When the MP points out the breach of the Rules of Procedure, which refers to the mutual address of the People's MPs, then the least he can do is not make the same mistakes again in his own address. In principle, during today's working day, each of the discussions was addressed, comments and analysis, which were on the verge of what is considered a debate in the Assembly, so as the chairman, I am also treating this commentary, agreeing with the fact that MP Zeljo Hurić, as many before him, was on the verge of commenting rather than attitude. There's a word from MP Zeljo Huric. Replication given in the speech of MP Tomislav Nikolic, and based on misreading.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21254	Very briefly, I will not burden you with my own dating, but for the simple reason that I have no intention of being here or my daughter, as they say in Montenegro, nor with Tom Nikolic, nor with your brother, who throws me like this when I come out, but to your brother, Zeljo, to answer you that I am not your brother, nor anyone here, of all of you present. I'm a great friend to you, like any other man on this globe, but when you say, "Brother, you won't tell me what you're saying when I go to the cafeteria, how you recite "The Greeks there are snacks of bread... "and so on. And everyone here heard you. You should say that, not just what suits you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21255	There is a word from MP Tomislav Nikolic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21256	Since it's been untrue here, I haven't come down to the cafeteria for four years to have breakfast, lunch or dinner, so, Mr. Huric, you and I have never met on the way to the cafeteria.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21257	There's a word from MP Pal Shandor. According to the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21258	If you read Slobodan Jovanovic carefully, I have talked about it, amending and supplementing the law, regardless of which amendments are involved, it is an opportunity to change every member and every position of the existing law; so says Slobodan Jovanovic. Therefore, we should accept that as an attitude, and whether or not we will accept a concrete amendment, that is another question. So the amendments are not only submitted to that text that the government has submitted, but to the entire text of the law, because it is subject to amendment and supplementation.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21259	People's MP, what would be the suggestion, since you have the right to address the Assembly only if there is a proposal?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21260	With Mr. Veselin Brkovic, who used to work in this congregation service, we were still discussing this issue in 1992. Therefore, my proposal was for the Assembly to take the view that it is possible, that amendments could be submitted, and the second question was whether these amendments would be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21261	The National MP made a proposal on which the Assembly cannot be declared, since it is intruding at the amendments and additions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which the MP knows very well. (Pal Shandor, from the scene: I only said it was possible to submit amendments to any member. ) I would like to thank you for the additional explanations, which represent a throw-off by the MP. I am also a reader of the work of Slobodan Jovanovic, and I am obliged to interpret the Rules of Procedure in these cases. According to the Rules of Procedure, the Assembly cannot be declared. There's a word from MP Zeljo Huric. According to the Rules of Procedure, he has a proposal. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21262	I suggest, Madam Chairman, that you stick strictly to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Assembly, and according to the Rules of Procedure, every MP, and so do I, has the right to propose amending and supplementing certain laws. How come I don't have a right now?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21263	If I were to strictly stick to the Rules of Procedure, and you, and some other MPs would have ended up with a warning about a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but what makes the atmosphere a tolerance for the application of the Rules of Procedure. When you submit the amendment, you submit it to the amendment and the addition of the law, and so does Slobodan Jovanovic, and there is no dispute about me. There is a word from MP Tomislav Nikolic. (Proposed by the Rules of Procedure) )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21264	I am convinced that the chairman, for his well-known reasons, is obstructing the adoption of this bill. Article 142 concerning the amendment is clear and gives the definition...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21265	I apologize to the People's Parliament, for the truth...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21266	So just read the amendment definition and it's over, what we've been discussing all day. The amendment is a proposal to amend and supplement the bill, nothing more. It's an amendment, everything else is a proposal to amend and supplement the law. The only thing that is an amendment is a proposal to amend and supplement the bill. This was a bill submitted by the government; the amendment was only an amendment to that bill. The amendment is not an amendment to the law, it's the law. Only the law changes the existing law. That's why the government called this a bill. I think this is clear to everyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21267	I realize we don't have a practical proposal for the Rules of Procedure right now. I put the amendments to the vote, which, by its content, is a proposal to add a new Article 12a after Article 12a, and I ask the Members of Parliament to make a statement. For 9, against 90, the abstentions were not voted 46 out of 145 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am fixing a break until 15.00 hours and a session of the afternoon to continue the debate on Article 13 and the amendment tabled by MP Predrag Canovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21268	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have a quorum, we continue to work. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Predrag Canovic. The MP is not present. The government and the Education Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For it was not against 112, the abstentions were not voted 16 out of a total of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojana Alexic, Vladimir Andric, Marina Stamenkovic, Milan Radulovic and Nenad Lemajic. The government and the Education Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 29, against 99, the abstentions were not voted 29, out of 157 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Zeljo Huric. The government and the Education Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legal, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Bojana Alexic, Vladimir Andric, Marina Stamenkovic, Milan Radulovic and Nenad Lemajic. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? National MP Bojana Alexic, on behalf of the applicants for the amendment, withdraws the amendment to Article 14. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Golub Rajic. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here's a word from the People's MP, Golub Rajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21269	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, in front of the SPS parliamentary group on the draft law amending and supplementing the law on high school law, I have submitted an amendment to delete the word "amending" in Article 14(1), and the rest of the text remains unchanged. The explanation for the proposed amendment is this - Socialists have always supported the reputation of teachers' profession and advocated respect for personality, students and parents. The experience of the previous period speaks - when opposition parties acted politically in schools, through their members, without any consequences for their working status, led students to the streets, developed hatred and intolerance, and with the arrival of new authorities none of the workers can be employed unless they join a particular DOS party, depending on whose director is a particular institution. By developing parties in employment and the creation of party schools, while pursuing and harassing people who think otherwise, creating schools is being divided by violating collective unity, the educational and educational process in schools is being compromised. The Committee on Education and the Government of the Republic of Serbia did not accept this amendment, with the government's argument that the meaning of the word "relation" refers to racial, religious, national and other, and the definition is political. The word "i.e." expresses the view that both categories of ban are of the same importance. My proposal for Article 14 of this Law, where the word "or" would be deleted, would read, "Teacher, associate who does not achieve the objective and tasks of education and education, does not implement the curricula programme, threatens or demeaning groups and individuals with his behaviour, based on racial, national, linguistic, religious and gender belongings, political commitment or promotes such behaviour, physically punishes or insults the personality of students, the school's director is moving away from teaching to making decisions in the disciplinary procedure". The minister of education and sports in his opening presentation, explaining the changes, said it was a fight for three "d"s: depolitisation, decentralisation and democratisation; that the ministry has defined changes to the existing law rather than new ones and that it will do so from more steps. The fact is DOS doesn't do what it promised, that reforms are being talked about and gone. The proposed amendments and this law are cosmetic, not essential, but can leave the long-term negative consequences, especially in election cases, where the government is carrying out a subtle view of school politicisation. This also proves a very frequent tour of the prime minister and minister's secondary schools, where future potential voters are. Which means there is no depoliticalisation, and when it comes to decentralisation and democratisation and the election of directors, the minister is the last. Without his consent, the director cannot be elected, which means that there are no major changes here.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21270	Thank you. Does anyone else want a word? Please, MP Vladimir Garcevic, authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21271	Dear President, honourable fellow Members of Parliament, dear Minister, I would like to point something out to the Serbian public. Changing this article is just a matter of precision for the previous 80th member of the law. I would warn the following if the current law on high school had regulated these problems. This article in the 1980s reads: "The teacher, i.e. the co-worker, is moving away from the school's teaching director, to make a decision in the disciplinary procedure: when he does not carry out his work with the goal and tasks of the school; the curricula and the programme; with his behaviour he calls into question particularly basic moral values, equality of the people and people; by organising students for political purposes, he causes national or religious intolerance. If the Director does not act unanimously on the content of this member, the teacher, or co-worker, is moving away from the Ministry of Education." And it's also been here for a long time -- classing, non-restraint. It is said: "A teacher who prepares school students who work to pass a correctional exam is subject to disciplinary procedure." What is now in the law has been changed is one cosmetics that did not have to bother the Assembly, nor was there a need for that, because in this Article 80, there were sufficient legal assumptions for those who disobeyed the rules of work and the life of the school, that they could be far away, so I believe, whatever our argument would not be accepted, that if we adhere to the law, there are a lot of elements in Article 80 of the Old Law and could have these changes in the law and not be implemented.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21272	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 35, against 113 abstentions, there was no 18 vote, out of 166 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Bozidar Vucurovic submitted to the 14th amendment. The Government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The applicant for the amendment is not present. The word has been made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21273	In order to make it more clear, there has been no role of an educational advisor and indeed under the applicable law, the director temporarily distanced the teacher who committed more or failed to fulfil some of his duties, but the proposer of these amendments and the addition of the law also provided for an educational advisor. In Article 108d, he predicted that an educational counselor would gain direct insight into the work of the school, i.e. the home of students, teachers, associates, or educators and directors, even if he attended teaching, exams as well as other forms of educational and educational work. Then why leave this right to the director, who only manages the work of the school, who is not qualified to assess whether a teacher or an associate with his educational work does not achieve the goal and tasks of education. Respecting the proposal to introduce an educational adviser, the SRS parliamentary group predicted that the educational advisor would propose to the school director that, until the end of the disciplinary process, he would move away from the teaching of teachers who did not meet the conditions, which, by his work, did not contribute to the objectives and tasks of education and education. Why does the Government, why does the bill promoter refuse such an amendment? The director of this kind of bill doesn't even have the right to go to class. Why would a school director attend classes held by the teacher in question; he manages the school, he is not prescribed to evaluate the educational and educational work of teachers and whether they meet the goals. If he is not already able to do so, and there is a person from the Ministry of Education who is sufficiently professional and who is tasked with assessing teachers and associates, then that educational inspector and the duty and his right to propose a distance from the teaching of teachers who, in his opinion, he has the authority to give that opinion does not meet the criteria set before teachers. So, why is it that the guidance counselor at all, if the director remains the only person who is competent and relevant to evaluate the teacher's work, is able and removed from teaching. Me and Milk are about the same age.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21274	Time, I'm warning you, time's over.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21275	But Milka settle down a little bit, drink some Bensedin just if it's gone too far.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21276	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 40, against 89, the abstentions were missing, did not vote 41, out of 170 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dragisa Popovic submitted to the 15th amendment. The government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21277	As far as the government is concerned, the government is reforming, it's for those uninformed, uninformed and uninformed Tom; and as far as the amendments are concerned, I won't allow myself to be too loud for another time; and whoever's right, and whoever's wrong, will show practice, so I'm giving up on the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21278	I find that MP Dragisa Popovic has withdrawn the amendment to Article 15. The 15th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojana Alexic, Vladimir Andric, Marina Stamenkovic, Milan Radulovic and Nenad Lemajic. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? National MP Bojana Aleksic withdraws the amendment on behalf of the applicants for the amendment to Article 15. National MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic submitted to Article 15. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Do you want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic, applicant for the amendment to Article 15. It's a bill of law.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21279	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment to the SRS is trying to prevent the return of self-government. What we believe should be changed in Article 15, which refers to a member of the 86th Law so far, is that - the head of a school whose founder is the Government appoints a minister of education and sport on the basis of a public competition, according to the local self-government assembly on whose territory the school is located. So, regardless of what we certainly do not appreciate that the DOS coalition is in power, that Minister Gašo Knezevic, that we would like this situation to change as soon as possible, we remain consistent in representing our party programme and what we promised the voters before the election. We believe that in public schools, in public schools, schools funded from public sources and public funds, the minister must take responsibility for him to be the one to appoint the school director. What does it mean that the Minister of Education agrees with the school board's decision? This means, in other words, that unless he gives consent, the school director will not be elected, but a re-competition will be repeated. Then why make those 15 days, that gap between when he doesn't give consent and calling a new competition. It is much better, according to the SRS, that the prime minister takes these powers and use them, regardless of what I repeat, we are not pleased, as most Serbian citizens do, that the DOS is exercising power at this time. I invite you to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21280	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? Yeah. ) National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group on this agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21281	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this article 15 is dedicated to the entire selection of school directors, which is very important. The promoter here suggests that the school directors whose founder is the government's choice are based on the school board's competitions, in the prepared opinion of the teacher's council. We know how the school board is composed, 3+3+3 or three local self-government, three in the order of professors, i.e. teaching staff and three parenting staff. To that decision, the Minister of Education subsequently gives consent and only then is the final decision, and other participants in the competition, if not satisfied, can lead a administrative dispute with a uncertain outcome, namely with a completely certain outcome that they cannot win in the administrative dispute, that the minister is the last and we actually come to the fact that the minister is the one who ultimately elects and appoints the director. Then why are we making this whole farce and we represent in the public that there is now a question of a school board or a higher teacher, when there is a minister who gives consent, or ultimately checks out the choice of that director. If he doesn't, then we have a situation where we have to re-open the competition or the situation that we have for six months performers. All of this is an unnecessary mix-up, and if we go from having private primary schools, where the founder is a natural or legal person, where he is the only one who has the right to appoint a director, why not apply the same principle, and in fact the only right principle, the one whose property is, or who lays ownership and founding rights, is his. We don't need to run from it, and we need to take that responsibility. The second thing is, of course, we suspect what kind of personnel you're going to bring to the director's post, but it's going to be a mirror of your authority. We are principled that if the government is the founder of a high school, then the minister of education should appoint a director, and of course he is responsible for the functioning of the school, as well as for the management, and what is again shown by the whole face of the government that is at that moment on stage.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21282	Thank you. Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 31, against 105, a abstentioned one, was not voted 35, out of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Radojko Petric submitted to the 15th amendment. The government and the Education Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legal. The word has the People's MP Radojko Petric, submitr of the amendment to Article 15. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on High Schools. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21283	On behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 15 of this law, which regulates the selection of high school directors. The explanation I will give is the same as I gave for the amendment, for the selection of primary school directors, because the government's proposal is the same for the selection of primary and secondary school directors. The amendment requires that a provision be introduced into the law that the minister, in the event of refusal to grant consent to the selection of the director, is required to give no consent within 15 days of the date of delivery of the decision. It is logical that only after receiving the notice is the re-competition to fill the post of head of secondary schools. Starting from the fact that the election in the public competition was conducted by the school board, which was drawn up really representatively, from one-third of the members of the school board proposed by the government, one-third of which was chosen by a secret vote from the representatives of the collectives and one-third of the school board who chose their parents by a secret vote, it is indeed logical then that the minister delivers a notice, or explanation for which he did not accept the proposal and the decision of the school board. This has an even greater weight if the former collective is known to declare and give its opinion to the director. Why doesn't the Government accept this amendment? What are the reasons why the minister does not give an explanation for why he did not give consent, to say and state the reasons. If the minister does not trust the school collective, the school board, their knowledge of the person of the proposed candidate, if he has received information from an inspection or from school supervisors, or educational advisors, at least indicate the reasons why the director is the one proposed by the school board, unsuitable. So he doesn't have any information that comes with secret channels, so it looks like a police, not a legal state. If there are no reasons why no consent is given, it will make the situation very complicated in schools. The proposed candidate for director shall be put in an awkward position. He will be suspected of doing some work that makes him unworthy to perform his duties as head of the school, but that's why they don't know about it in the collective. On the other hand, there will be confidence that politics is at stake, or that it is political belonging to a party. 15 days ago in the opening statement, you told Mr. Minister here that in the previous period the selection of school directors was politically colored and that in the future... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... It won't happen anymore. A few more sentences. However, this shows that this colour does not stay, but is also increasing. Indeed, if the government wants the top professional and morally clean people elected for school directors, it will exclude political membership as a condition for setting up a single school director, any one in Serbia. I think it is perfectly logical for this amendment to be accepted and this will also be a sign that the rule of law and rule of law are respected. That will be a contribution to what you ministers promised.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21284	Thank you. Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 49, against 104 abstentions, there was no vote of 20, out of a total of 173 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 15th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic, Milos Lukic, Petar Petrovic and Adam Urosevic. The government and the Education Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Petar Petrovic on behalf of the applicants for the amendment to Article 15. It's a bill of law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21285	The Honored Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, the Assembly Club of the Soviet Union has submitted an amendment to the following content - in Article 15 following Article 5, a new position of 6 is added: "If the Minister of Education does not deliver consent to the school board's decision on the selection of directors, the agreement and decision on the election is deemed to be final. "And so far, attitudes 6 to 9 become attitudes 7 to 10. The proposed amendment aims to oblige the Minister of Education to decide within a specified time limit on granting consent to the selection of the Director. In practice, it often occurs when certain consents are required from the competent authority of the lower authorities, and in this particular case by the school board, so-called silence of the administration. What happens if the ministry doesn't give consent within 15 days. This law provides for a period of 15 days. So, the ministry must be obliged to give consent or a negative opinion on the proposal, on the school board's decision. In the event that it does not, the SSJ Parliament Club believes that the ministry is then in agreement with the election, i.e. with the decision of the school board and the decision becomes final. Simply, the goal is to force the ministry, I repeat, to decide within 15 days of the date of delivery of the school board's decision. So he has the courage to say that the school board's decision is not good, or he's simply in agreement with that decision and he'll deliver a positive opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21286	Thank you. Does anyone else sign up for a word? Yeah. Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21287	To the one who reads Article 15 more carefully. The bill must be imposed one question. There is a situation where the minister and then the contestant of the competition, unsatisfactory by the decision on the election, exercise the right to judicial protection in the administrative dispute. There's a time when the minister doesn't give consent. He can in two ways not give consent -- or write that he is not consenting or that he is silent. The silence is a sign that he did not give consent. In that case, if the minister does not give consent, there is no legal remedy, the competition is cancelled. What if the one who met all the conditions and only the minister did not give consent? He can't run a administrative dispute. You didn't predict by law that he could run a administrative dispute. We are going back to the period that is behind us or ahead of us, that someone will not be able to be chosen as head of the school and that it is the simplest way for the school board to make a proposal without the minister giving consent. They can be three candidates and neither of those three politically likes the minister, and they meet all the conditions. If one of the three of them chose, the other two could lead the administrative dispute. If he chooses none, they no longer have any protection, waiting for a new contest, but the minister's failure to agree is a sign that they will not be re-elected, even though the school board proposes them. The amendment is an opportunity for a government representative to declare this, whether this law will allow competitions to be annulled simply because someone is not willing and not even have to co-operate with school committees and ministers. Maybe the school board will be for someone, and the minister won't. It is the humiliation of founders, when the founder of the Republic of Serbia, to God has some self-government steps that will decide on the position of school director, and does not decide on behalf of the founders who manage finance, education programme and entire education. I think the government of the Republic of Serbia should stand on the mark and say - we suggest that this man be a school director, so if it's wrong, the government is wrong, and if the government fails, the government will fall, there will be new choices, who knows what's going to be. This is how it's gonna go from the unloved to the unloved, you're gonna kick people. The very possibility that the elementary school law provides that people with higher education can also be school directors, is a sign that you do not have enough personnel and that you are now verifying street seats from October 5th, when there was only one party and he became a school director; so now if he's good enough that you don't have to change him, then by law we can adapt his qualification to what we're looking for from the directors.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21288	Anybody else answer for a word? The word has the Minister of Education, Mr. Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21289	The Supreme Court's administrative department was consulted when this solution was adopted. There have been cases of administrative disputes over the appointment of directors, and here we were in a situation of double litigation, so on. the suspension, because the debate was accepted by both the municipal court and the Supreme Court. In the Supreme Court, they are very pleased with this solution, precisely because double litispendence is avoided. Therefore, we have consulted the lawyers on these solutions.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21290	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 53, against 94, a abstentioned one, did not vote 25, out of 173 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Zeljo Huric. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21291	Dear People's MPs, not to waste time, the exact same amendment has been accepted by the elementary school law and there is no need to discuss it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21292	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21293	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21294	Since the committees have not accepted, I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 87, against 54, a abstentioned one, did not vote 31, out of 173 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 15 of the amendment. The Committee on Education has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21295	The proposal is for the SRS to be in Article 16, i.e. Article 87. The law amends the words "to take measures to carry out the duties of an educational inspector and an educational counselor and in the case of misbehaving of teachers, i.e. co-workers and a negative influence on students and other teachers". What about the Serbian radicals? It is that the school director, as part of his duties, performs the duties of inspectors. It means that both termologically and legally, it's more accurate. What does it mean to prepare, or take action? This means that this action can last indefinitely, and that the order that the director gets from the inspectors in this case is not done, that there is a avoidance of the enforcement of this law, so just to be precise, we suggest that this be deleted and that the director also executes the order. It's up to most of us to adopt these changes.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21296	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 70, against 71, a abstentioned one, did not vote 25, out of 167 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Dragisa Popovic. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by MP Dragisa Popovic, who submits the amendment to Article 17.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21297	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, with the amendment, I wanted to strengthen the responsibility of the school's director for the application of Article 1, i.e. for not applying Article 1, which is really so beautifully written and arranged, and should be read, so that all those who work in education remember this well: "At school there are forbidden activities that endanger or disdain groups and individuals based on racial, national, linguistic, religious or full membership, or political commitment, as well as inciting such activities. Physical punishment and insult of students are forbidden at school. "The government gave its explanation and the bill measured the director's responsibility, so through the bill it also fits this idea I had, so that practically this was incorporated into the bill through amendments, so I give up the amendment. Serbia is on the right track, the government is a reform (information for the uninformed), and the most flattering assessments and recognitions come from the most influential representatives of the international community.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21298	I find that MP Dragisa Popovic has withdrawn the amendment to Article 17. The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The word is made by MP Ljubomir Kragovic, applicant for the amendment to Article 17. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the High School Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21299	Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, in front of the Serbian Radical Party, I have submitted an amendment to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on High School - in Article 17 to delete Article 2 or Article 88 to delete Article 2. The explanation is the very text of this Article 2, which I will read: The school board will resolve the director of the duties if it is established that the school does not implement the prescribed curricula and programme or achieves it with established, or unsecured deficiencies and irregularities; if the school, or director, is responsible for the violation of Article 109 of this Act; if the competent authority finds that the director(s) are involved in the activities of the school board, so that the role of the school board is identified by the role of an inspection body; means, the school board will attend the classes and determine how the teaching staff works and on this basis punish the director; we are involved here because we have an educational advisor to perform these activities). It's called "if the competent authority determines." Who is this competent authority, if not the Ministry? So the minister can at any time order the school board and the school board to become an instrument of the Ministry. That's why it's too high that there's even this school board. Therefore, I suggest that Section 2 be deleted and that the rest of the text remain, that the school director be resolved by the founder. As far as the government itself is concerned, it is anti-reformal and there is no "r" of reforms; only if under reforms you mean closing factories, firing workers, closing banks, firing bank officials and destroying Serbia's entire economy. So much for government and reform. I call on Members to vote in favour of this amendment, which would avoid the interference of jurisdiction between the educational inspector, the school board or the ministry, because there is no telling who will make decisions in the event of the Director's discharge.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21300	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, representative of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21301	Let's ask, gentlemen of the DOS, educational workers, parents and students, if Serbia is on the right track and whether the Government is reforming; to leave these across the border, they're probably very pleased, which is for us niggers, that's better for them. The amendment to Article 17 is related to Article 15, to which we have tabled the amendment, as regards the election of the Director. Next to our concept, we had to intervene in Article 17, hoping, if any of these amendments that treat the selection of directors were accepted, then there would have to be an intervention of the Legislative Committee. So we're not giving up that it's only logical for the government to be the one, or the minister of education, to be the one to appoint school directors, and that this relic of the past is related to school committees and various other self-government bodies, which are merely an illusion of decision-making, leave for history and then really be reforming. Like this, you're decadent and you're going back to something that's been overcome, which in practice turned out to be bad. I'll do it again, I think it's just because you're running away from responsibility. You want to create one situation, you'll see that it's going to happen in practice, we'll only have bad relations in collectives, we'll have long-time executives. We can have that cycle repeated several times. We won't have the right will of the collective, as you wish to present it here. The minister will ask again, but he will have no responsibility for the functioning of the schools.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21302	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 42, against 87, a abstentioned one, was not voted 36, out of 166 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 17 of the amendment. The Committee on Education has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 17th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojana Alexic, Vladimir Andric, Marina Stamenkovic, Milan Radulovic and Nenad Lemajic. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter by Bojana Alexic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21303	This amendment has two parts. The full member of the law refers to the discharge of the Director, i.e. the infringements that one director should commit to discharge of his duties. The first of our interventions, which is lexical, refers to the following:instead of its listing - if it does not depart from the teaching of teachers or associates who insult the personality of students etc., - it is enough to stand "teacher who violates the provisions of Article 80 of this Law", which we discussed earlier. The second part of our amendment refers again to the issue of school space, which we, as the Democratic Party of Serbia, have also insisted on in the elementary school law, which is not then accepted. During these years there has been abuse in the issue of school space, primarily by school principals, who directly abused their official position and who, most often in exchange for cash, issued mostly physical halls, but also cabinets and schoolyards and many other rooms in schools, which could be used for various private activities. When it comes to salami, we all know that many of them rented them an hour, at a price of about 50 marks an hour. Since it is not very small funds, which ended in a gray economy, it is likely that they ended up in someone's private pockets, instead of being used for the good of schools and students - I must say that in the Democratic Party of Serbia we are not against issuing school space where there is more than necessary. But we believe that this school space should be issued with the approval of the Republic Property Directorate, because schools, i.e. the property of the school is owned by the Republic Directorate, and it is regulated by a special law. But since the transfer of republican intelligence to the new Law on Local Self-Government to municipalities, then municipalities also have the opportunity to control the issue of school space through inspection supervision, which is, by the rule, a lawyer who controls the legal acts of the school and who can have insight into that kind of material. Our amendment would read precisely: "The director is resolved and if he concludes or cancels the contract on the use or lease of the school space, without the consent of the Republic of Serbia's Property Directorate, or if he is unlawfully acting in carrying out the extended activities of the school." That's exactly it. Now, the problem with this amendment of ours is that it is our concept (on which I will talk about the next member of the law, or member of the school boards), which is mentioned in the first part, and therefore I do not insist on this amendment, different from the government's concept. But I simply believe that even if, at this moment, because of this first part, this amendment cannot be accepted, there should be a way to regulate this legally, there is much more to talk about this problem and that the Ministry has much more to take care of than it has done so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21304	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? The word has been made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21305	The problem with the concept of this amendment is that there is no concept, because you have not intervened with the amendment in Article 15, which prescribes that the school director is elected, and now you are predicting Article 17 as it is resolved, so it turns out that almost everyone lives, by mixing the branches of the government, can resolve the school director. Could the congregation of the city’s congregation, or congregation of the city, be a minister of enlightenment, and why didn’t you write that it was chosen by the congregation of the city, the minister of education? You should have some concept. He who chooses him can also resolve him. In this case, the interference of the Minister of Education, unless it is a political solution, cannot be accepted in the discharge of the Director because he is not in the selection of the Director.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21306	Anyone else want a word? The word is from MP Vladimir Garcevic, the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21307	It is important for the Serbian public to replace the issues and it would be better for the current government to resolve all issues in education in a year and a half, and those who do not inform themselves enough, that is their problem again. On the other hand, if he does not know any problems, each issue of school property was required to seek the consent of the Ministry of Education, and through him and the Property Directorate. Has there been any abuse and how much abuse he has used? Well, there are the organs, so let them establish. Let's not replace the thesis, let's do the work. For two years, you've been in power, doing your job to do, running an analysis of the current situation, where you've appointed a thousand and a few executives. Come on, run an analysis if you can. Come out here in front of the Assembly and tell me what the directors are doing to you. I'm sure there are people who work properly, I won't talk, because the profession of education isn't like that, no matter what the foreigners are in. But let's see what's improved in education, how much you've advanced in education, how economically you've advanced, how organizational, how much personnel? If we want to start a committee, to determine the state, we could see how much progress there is in that. It is certainly progress, but in the opposite direction; Serbia is not on a good path to education, with current staff solutions in education.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21308	The word has a folk MP, Bojana Aleksic. (Replication of the presentation of MP Tomislav Nikolic, the basis for the replication of wrong interpretation. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21309	The replica refers to Mr Nikolic's exposure, which is not present now. I'm sorry, but I've been told that this amendment has no concept. If Mr. Nikolic had listened to me very carefully, but now he's not here to hear, he would have heard me say that the DSS had a different concept when electing a director, which I will explain when it comes to an amendment relating to school committees. When it comes to this, I can't explain it right now. As for the other remarks, I don't know why Mr. Garcevic, when he talked about all this, wasn't looking at the minister, but at me? I haven't been in that ministry in eight or nine months.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21310	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I am putting the amendment to the vote and asking the MPs to plead. For 26, against 63, the abstentions were not voted 73, out of 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 17th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic, Milos Lukic, Petar Petrovic and Adam Urosevic. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Do any of the applicants of the amendment want a word? The word has a National MP, Petar Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21311	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the Assembly Club of the SSJ has submitted an amendment to the following content - in Article 17 after Article 2 of Article 2, paragraph 3 is added: "The Director has dismissed duties within the meaning of Articles 1 and 2 of this article to other relevant tasks, and if such jobs are not available, he shall exercise the right of the employee whose work has ceased the need. "And, not to take up time, since time is running out, and the students are waiting for a contest to enrol in high school, just to read the government's explanation of why it did not accept the amendment, which is (it is because of the general public, who is probably watching the transfer of this Assembly): "Amendment should not be accepted in the proposed text, because its essence is covered by Amendment 3. The governments of the Republic of Serbia." It seems the Ministry is more involved in form, and MPs are essentially. I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21312	I find that on behalf of the applicants, the MP withdrew the amendment, and he ceases to be the subject of discussion in particular. National MP Srboljub Zivanovic submitted to the 18th amendment. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. There's a word from MP Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21313	Ladies and gentlemen, a little bit, Mr. Secretary raises his leg, probably hurts him, but there's some unpleasant smell, probably the scent of this DOS government. In front of the Serbian Radical Party, I submit an amendment to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law [[Sagar.]] About high school, to be a member of 18. [[screams, whistles]] The bill is deleted. Explanation... Mrs. Milka, I have to answer you. [[growls]] Please! In Capac, at the track, 85% beat the mare. [[sagar-sa, whoa]] That's what you need to ask your head of Parliament. [[Sagar.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21314	People's MP, I remind you of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and your obligation to address everyone in this room with respect. You have violated every measure of good taste and cultural address...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21315	Please don't get me...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21316	.... and the Minister and the others. You insist on presenting it as cheerful and witty. That's rude. Either you talk about the amendment or you'll be taken from me.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21317	Today, there is a proposal for a law on secondary education, which should represent a pillar of intelligence, because a young man decides on something that is most important and it is an occupation that needs to be carried out his whole life. Therefore, this bill must be approached with more tact and seriousness and show greater interest in young people, where the government through the government and the Ministry of Education should carry out the most important task - education of the nation. Therefore, for the Minister of Education, a person whose ingenuities are great and in the selection of directors of all schools, and he must set an example for all educators with his behaviour. That means that the minister of education and sports, I'm not going to say he's lying, because I'm well-trained, but he's not telling the truth in case the school's director's shift wasn't politically on the DOS line. I will set an example in Šapac and Krupanj where there was a shift of directors who, by their work and behavior, set an example for many directors who stayed in their services because they belonged to DOS option. They didn't really run out of work, but that's why they do schoolwork by filling out a teaching program. Ladies and gentlemen, when you pass through Serbia today, no one has to tell you where high school is because those sad and ruined appearances show their name. We want computerization and certain schools should be closed, because they don't do minimum work. I'm going to give an example of an eight-year-old school in Sapac in the "Letnikovac" village where the previous government of national unity started and did 80% of the facility with all the accompanying infrastructure elements. Construction was cut off by the arrival of DOS to power, since it is reportedly not enough funds to continue the construction, i.e. There's not enough donations. The funds were provided by citizens to continue the construction. parents. But the local eyes are not interested in it (President-in-Office - three minutes and 30 seconds) nor is the Ministry of Education, in order for the job to be completed by autumn. I especially point out the problem of lack of textbooks because many professors and teachers teach by some scripts that probably the Ministry of Education did not approve. never considered. Therefore, the next school year must not begin its work until sufficient quality textbooks are provided for each subject. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21318	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? The word has a minister in the government, Mr. Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21319	I may be considered a man of tolerance, but I must note that the lows spoken by my predecessor no one in this country is obliged to listen. I'll take it, though, with a lot of bitterness, and that'll shape my perspective for the future. I'm sorry this happened. The previous speaker did not say a word about the amendment in his presentation and I ask the President to try to take care of the course of this session. Thank you and I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21320	Anyone else want a word? Please, the word is by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, authorised representative of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21321	Ladies and gentlemen, the public of Serbia can see what our schools might look like best on the case of our parliament. The former professor of Law School plays teacher here, as well as the chairman, gives sermons to the MPs. Mr. Minister, you're a guest in this house. This is where we host. This is where we decide and you're just sent by the government to possibly explain something to us and that's what we're asking you. Therefore, Be careful how you deal with the Messengers in the future. [[growls]]
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21322	I remind the MP to address...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21323	Remind the gentlemen who are getting me now, Madam Chairman, to give me a chance to speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21324	.... MPs on the subject for which she came out and to talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21325	You can't stop me with that logo of yours at all. Believe me, I've shown here that I know what I'm doing, that I can speak and defend amendments...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21326	Mrs. Gordana Pop-Lazic, you are stopped.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21327	Ha, ha, how do you plan to stop me?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21328	On 23 December 2001, you were stopped.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21329	Well, now you've best shown who you are, what you are and what you are...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21330	And now you have a chance to address the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21331	I'm glad that direct transmissions are still going and that really Serbia can see who's sitting behind my back and who's standing, or sitting here on the left.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21332	If we can get around the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21333	So I can talk about the amendment if you let me talk about something. If you're done? If Mrs. Chairman is finished, here I will try to further explain the amendment to Mr. Srboljub Zivanovic, article 18. This is one newspaper. Article 88a - which the government has fallen into precisely because of what we are intervening from Article 15. and here until 18. arguing that the Minister of Education is the one (although we have no confidence in him, but he's only there for a few months and he's going to go, another one will come) who has to appoint a school director, and then we wouldn't need to have a V.D. at all. a condition which, from this article, can be seen to last indefinitely. Because the first point is that the school director is appointed by the school board until the headmaster's election, and for six months at most. If the term of office of the school director expires, and the school board does not elect the school director after the competition is scheduled, the director shall be appointed by the minister of education. So, in the end, he decides again and there's an illusion here; we have someone at the end that the Minister of Education will keep pulling back, to say -- you're going to do one thing or another before you have to leave, or -- someone else will come. Conditions for selection, rights, obligations and responsibilities of the school's director also apply to the acting director. Please, completely unnecessary V.D. The situation, the ZUR legacy, you are reentering some terminology that has been overcome (President-time) and that is why I keep reminding you that you are not reformists. You're decadent.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21334	Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For six, against 92, a abstentioned one, did not vote 56, out of 155 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Bojana Alexic, Vladimir Andric, Marina Stamenkovic, Milan Radulovic and Nenad Lemajic. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? National MP Bojana Aleksic, on behalf of the applicants for the amendment, withdraws the amendment to Article 18. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic, Milos Lukic, Petar Petrovic and Adam Urosevic. The government and the Education Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here's a word from the People's MP, Petar Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21335	The Honored Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the MPs' Club of the Party of Serbian Unity has submitted an amendment to Article 18, which suggests that in Article 18, i.e. the new member of 88a, after Article 1, add a new position 2 which reads: "The school board is obliged to open a competition for the school director within 30 days of the day of the appointment of the school's director's office." Item 2 which becomes position 3 is amended and reads: "If the school director's duties expires, and the school board does not elect the school's director after the competition, the performer, with the consent of the minister of education, continues to perform his duties as director, but for the longest six months." Simply, SSP MPs believe that the school board, according to the competition, first after the appointment of the school's director's office, must seriously approach that primary task, which is to call a competition for the school's principal and simply find a person who is capable and who will be responsible and professionally perform the office of school director. That deadline should not be indefinitely, but it would have to be taken, let's say, as we suggested, that that deadline be 30 days from the day of the appointment of the school's director's office because we have in practice a case to appoint the performer, so a few months pass, and no competition is called and then the situation v.d. It takes some institutions and a few years. At the same time, we don't think it's complete unless the school's headmaster is elected to come here to do the job of the school's director, because then every six months, it could be that new people are doing the job of the school's director, and it's still not good for schools. For this reason, we felt that the same person who was the acting director should, unless the new director was elected to continue his duties, normally with the consent of the Minister of Education. Simply, we were guided by practical reasons so that the school would not suffer, i.e. students and teachers at that school. I hope you accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21336	I thank you, is any of the other authorised participants in the debate applying for a word on this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 36, against 98, the abstentions were not voted 26 out of 160 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposed amendment. The Government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 18 of the amendment. The Committee on Education has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Member of the 19th Amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The applicant of the amendment wishes a word, MP Vitomir Plužarevic, applicant for the amendment to Article 19. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on High Schools.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21337	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, according to the Serbian Radical Party's assessment of the proposed amendments and additions to the High School Law, are an attempt to introduce self-management into school through school boards. The government is the founder of schools and she needs to take care of schools and not school boards. The one financing the school should take care of the school. The amendment to this article 19, which we Serbian radicals have proposed to delete. The board rejected this amendment to Article 19 that we were Serbian radicals and expected because there is no amendment to Serbian radicals that the committee and DOS majority will accept, so this one is not accepted either. The 19th member came across divided opinions in the DOS itself, so he is from the Serbian Radical Party's point of view unnecessary, as the government is the founder, and he is only a farce of democracy. I would not be surprised if, in this article 19th on school boards, the Proposer established such relations to be delegated to the European Community in committees, since this law and all the laws that need to be implemented quickly have been influenced and influenced by various European thinkers who are trying to educate our school and our children in the future by their rules and their systems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21338	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 20, against 100, the abstentions were not voted 42, out of 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 19th Amendment was submitted by MP Išpanovich Istvan. National MP Išpanovich Istvan withdraws the amendment to Article 19. It's a bill of law. Member of the 19th amendment was submitted by MP Zeljo Huric. The government and the Education Committee have not accepted this amendment. National e-mailer Zeljo Huric withdraws the amendment to Article 19. Member of the 19th amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Pavlovic. The government and the Education Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. You're staying with your amendment? Please, MP Slobodan Pavlovic, submitor of the amendment to Article 19.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21339	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, I don't know why Mrs. Micic thinks that I would give up the amendment, probably because she assumes that the decision will be like the amendments to the elementary school law, so she won't be accepted, but of course it doesn't give me the right to give up and not say what I'm up to. I just want to remind all of you, and that's what I told Mr. Minister when he was the Home School Act, he was sitting across the street, that a member who regulated the selection of school boards in primary schools, and this member of the 19th High School Act, also caused a lot of conflicting opinions in the professional public or public at all. He also caused various comments, and there were different approaches and arguments. This is confirmed by Minister Gašo Knezevic, i.e. the Government of the Republic of Serbia, insisting on a proposal that was established, i.e. an amendment to the Law on High School, under D-D-D or 3+3+3, although it is obvious that the DOS itself is not in agreement with this solution, and the amendment submitted by a group of DSS MPs is a confirmation. Secondly, in many schools (I can't bid as much as it was, Minister Knezevic said at the last session that it was a smaller number, 10 or 20%, I can't get into it right now), there were obviously a lot of disagreements, and in primary and secondary schools, when it comes to the selection of members of the school board; if you remember, there were also warnings and school termination strikes just because of this article 19. The law. Third, unions, whether they're majority or not, how you treat them, etc. - we have (all parliamentary groups) the letter and the union's views -- they also dispute this solution, so they disagree with this proposal. The SPS parliamentary group, whose name I have submitted an amendment to Article 19, also disagrees and suggests that Article 19 paragraph 3 changes and that it reads: "The school board has nine members of which five members are members of the school's collectives, and are elected by secret declaration. Three members of the school board are representatives of local self-government, and one member is a parent, elected by the Council of Parents by secret declaration. "I am convinced by this model that it is more functional and that it works in many countries. There's one very interesting thing here. The government and Minister Knezevic argue in an explanation, which I do not have time to read, I apologize that this model works in many countries. I claim and have examples that this model we propose works in other countries, so that our model increases the efficiency of the school board, in order to increase responsibility in school management, to increase responsibility in the selection of directors, and that parents through the Council of Parents can exercise their right to do so. Last time I read...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21340	I thank you, you've exceeded your time, Mr. Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21341	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, please accept the amendment I have tabled.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21342	Thank you. Is anyone else applying for this amendment? The word is given by MP Vladimir Garcevic, an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group, according to this agenda item.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21343	If we remember correctly, DOS advocated in the streets in 2000, along with educational workers who led students in demonstrations, that it would enable complete democracy in education. That promise has nothing to do with it. The current democracy is based on everything but democracy. We say, we want a European institution of education. If we have the wrong choices of most directors, if we are now allowing it to be in secondary education, and where investment and all of this is run by the Serbian Government, when we cannot accept a statement of collectives, it would be good if Mr. Minister...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21344	Please don't throw away the speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21345	... Gašo Knezevic allows all collectives to be declared by a secret vote, so let's see how many current directors who have been appointed V.D. pass on to that statement. I mean, very little, at least half of it won't work. What does that mean? He says, we're afraid of the old regime and they're having an intrusion into education. What does that mean? That means you can't run schools. Then let's give it to those who are. Give to those who are, and let those who are most capable come to places, and in whom the workers believe. I believe in 100,000 employees in education. Confirmation of that is daily communication. The union thing -- I hope some union leaders (because I have a working relationship at school), change very quickly, so they won't be with the workers, they'll represent the interests of the workers. Then he won't be on strike for a few schools or I don't know how many, but he'll be far more. Minister, I want another answer you owe me. Whether the Resistance is financed from education and whether the Resistance is referred to as an application test controller. You owe it to me and you owe it to the Serbian public. I didn't get that answer there, and I want to get that answer here in the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21346	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 42, against 98, the abstentions were not voted 28 out of 168 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Zivko Selakovic submitted to the 19th amendment. The government and the Education Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The word is submitted by the amendment, MP Zivko Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21347	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, the amendment of the Assembly Group of the Soviets, which I have submitted to Article 19. The secondary school law refers to the number of members of the school board and the composition of the committee as provided for in Article 3(3). Here is the text of this amendment - Article 19 paragraph 3 is amended and reads: "The school board has 9 members. Five members from the teacher's office and professional associates are proposing a teacherly larger secret statement, one member suggests a parent's advice by a secret vote, and three members are representatives of the Ministry of Education. "Here is the explanation of that amendment. The proposed amendment changes the composition of the school board, increasing the number of members proposed by the teachers, ensuring a more significant impact of employees on work and school management, as well as on school management, especially when deciding on the selection of school directors. The reduction of the number of members proposed by the advice of parents reduces the risk of ineffectiveness in decision making, given the interests of parents within the competence of the parent council. As it comes to the same proposal that regulates the number and composition of the school board members as well as in the elementary school law, I then gave a more detailed explanation which is no need to re-expose. Therefore, the parliamentary group of the Soviet Union proposes that this amendment be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21348	Thank you. Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 25, against 105, the abstentions were not voted 32, out of 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 19th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Marinkovic. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a National MP, Dragisa Marinkovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21349	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you can see exactly by the basis of the amendments to this article what attitudes some members of the opposition represent. Obviously, these are a little decadent attitudes, outdated in ways of thinking, school control, etc. I think the government's got a lot of hits in this system, like it is, 3+3+3, but I want to suggest another, in my opinion, more progressive way that these young people, who are in the third, fourth grade high school, have their own representative on the school board. Therefore, my amendment says that the teaching council proposes three people, three members, and the advice of the parents of two, the Ministry of Education of Three and the organisation of the school's students proposes one person, which means one student. It would be good to give this young generation, which I think is intellectually stronger than us, but normally, emotionally immature, a chance to participate in the lives of their school. Therefore, be kind, and support this amendment of mine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21350	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21351	We have, by amendment to Article 19, provided for the erasure of this article, because nothing needs to be changed and that is not our decadent opinion and we are not too old to know what and how it should work in Serbia. I'd like to point out two things here, if you could pay some more attention to the amendment first and then to Article 19 himself. The promoter is asking, and this also promotes the government in Article 20, that one representative of the school's student organisation participates in the school board, and the government says the school board's meetings, without the right to decide, are attended by a representative of the school's student organisation. There is no further development on what will be called the school's student organisation, who will form the DOS youth alliance. He used to be the Union of Socialist Youth, so he was the Union of Communist Youth of Yugoslavia, Serbia. If it's an alliance of DOS youth, I admit, you can vote it, but it should be predicted, will it be the statute of the school, the statute of the school board, what is an organization of school students? Why doesn't the promoter explain it to us at all? We had one amendment to be some kind of student parliament, so the government itself saw that by getting into the 20th organization of the school students, in fact, it opened Pandora's box. Here, we'd like parliament in high school now, so why don't we go to elementary school? I think here, here I am now going back to Article 19, actually going to the further humiliation of local self-government, which has been disproved by a series of legal projects that DOS has proposed to this National Assembly, and here is this. I have to inform you, Article 105 of the Law, in a work that has not been changed, that the municipality, or the city of Belgrade, is not aware of why not the cities of Kragujevac, Nis, Novi Sad and Pristina, provides funds for investments, investment and ongoing maintenance, material costs and other obligations of schools, and even for the professional training of teachers etc. The right of the congregation of the municipality, or city, is simply to appoint members of the school board that someone else proposes, and even that other one suggests the exact number, the closed list of members of the school board, which the congregation of municipalities or cities, so the people elected by the people, can only name, cannot influence at all. The question arises, first of all, why the local self-government assembly, i.e. why the municipality or city has no representatives in the school board of secondary schools, which is funded in an entire segment of its operation, and secondly,... (President: Mr. Nikolic, thank you, you've exceeded your time. See how well I speak, this is a useful education.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-08-0.u21352	We've been listening to you all day, you've spoken well, but you've exceeded your time, Mr. Nikolic. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 38, against 90, two abstentions, 29 of the 159 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002 continues tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, the session is attended by 157 MPs and I find that the application of the electronic system has established that we have a quorum and we can continue our work. I inform you that they are prevented from attending the following MPs: Radomir Naumov, Leila Ruždić-Trifunović, Natasa Milojevic, Miroslav Markicevic, Vukosav Tomašević, Dragan Kovacevic, Petar Misic, Višnja Nežić, Zoran Boskovic, Išpanovic Istvan, Ratimir Svirčević, Sredoje Mihajlov and Jelena Milenković. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Secretariat for Law. Also, according to Articles 83 and 84. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that I invited representatives of the Centre for Free Elections and Democracy, representatives of the Student Union of Serbia, representatives of the Alliance of Students of Belgrade, students of the Study Group for Constitutional Law at the Faculty of Law in Belgrade, representatives of the National Movement "Resist", representatives of the Low Student Association and representatives of the Student Federation. I welcome the guests present. Before we continue to work on the eighth item of the agenda, I want to give you two notices. Before the start of the session, together with the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Chairman of the Committee on Culture and Information, I received a Norwegian parliamentary delegation headed by the President of the Norwegian Parliament, Mr Jergen Cosmo, who expressed support for our efforts to reform and democratisation society, and I am pleased to convey this support. The second announcement is that a session of the Committee on Justice and Administration of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be held today, starting at 14.00 p.m., at the OR on the ground floor. We move to the 8th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on Central School (single) The Members of Parliaments Bojana Alexic, Vladimir Andrić, Marina Stamenković, Milan Radulović and Nenad Lemajic together submitted. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Do any of the applicants of the amendment want a word? He has the word National MP Milan Radulovic, representative of the amendment applicants to Article 19. It's a bill of law.
